ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to Article 225, Mr Albianic, in order to refer to the 2008 budget story, the accent was placed in those five segments that, in the exhibition Vojislav Kostunica, brought before the MPs when you voted at the deaf hour of the night for his cabinet's election, on the so-called. Stabilisation and Association Agreement and Serbia's entry into the EU. I am also telling you this because of what our Secretary-General, Mr. Alexander Vukic, said yesterday and the fact that statements by EU officials continue that their intention is to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. I'm telling you first, because I'm counting on you all, even though you're seeing the orni this morning for work and getting a good night's sleep, but by the late hours after midnight, you watched a video of the trial from The Hague tribunal and that alleged witness, Antonio Obershal, who was beginning to be discredited by our president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Now I suppose it is clear to you that those who blackmail you and who make demands for you, and those you are devoid of, that you do not crawl for seven years, and who are asking you to deliver famous Serbian generals, officers, politicians, have no good intentions towards Serbia and the Serbian people. Take a look at yourself in the eyes of the Ilina pause in two hours, when it is appointed by Mr. Chairman, sit down for a while and at lunch talk about who those whose ideology has led you back so many years, not in the past seven, but since the founding of your parties. Those who do not know where Karlobag is, where Ogulin is, where Virovitica is, those who do not know where Belgrade is in the right sense of words. They come here, unload them from the plane, to the cabinet of Kostunica, Tadic, the minister of one, the other, issue a list. Do you people know where your policy leads the state of Serbia? Is it based on such a display of the situation, that a quasi-dude that you support and that you do everything to further humiliate Serbia, brings someone as a witness, I would say a low-class drunk spy who knows what rank, who speaks such nonsense, and a representative of the prosecution. So you keep talking and drilling into your breasts -- whatever you want in the EU, how important Euro-Atlantic integration is to you. And the state of Serbia and its citizens and the president of the largest political party that the people vote for in the elections is judged by those who do not know where Serbian cities are, what was happening in our country's premises. If their main charge, which you could hear last night, was that Yugoslavia was an artificial creation, let me ask each of you individually, I'm sure in 98 percent of the cases, that you're going to come out here, that you're all going to confirm the same thing. What are we talking about here - the future of Serbia with such a policy? One to set you a budget, to set you up where Serbia will go. The most serious and the most responsible I'm saying is that it won't work that way. I am also absolutely certain because of what they will do today, in the continuation of the trial and the breaking of the first witness, if such witnesses are such witnesses, you can imagine what the end of the UN tribunal will be like. (President: Thank you, Miss Jovanovic) To end with the words of Professor Seselj - from him and from them stone on stone will not remain, and you will end your career policy but in the presidential elections, as I see it, in a month and a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13802	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go, Mr. Shane. You have five minutes per article 93. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13803	Dear People's MPs, we have tried, the Roma Party and I as their MP, to put in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, this proposal, an amendment that should define a different government policy in the area of agriculture. This different government policy in the area of agriculture is a policy to support themselves in a different way, compared to the large landowners who receive a unit of subsidy measures, to support those who have small possessions, to support the socially endangered in the country, to support refugees, displaced persons, who are trying to make their life come true in Serbia's country. Because it's simply not the same when you give 100 euros per hectare to someone who has thousands of acres of land and gives the same 100 euros to someone who has 10 hectares of land. Those who have 10 hectares of thousands of euros can do nothing, and those who have thousands of hectares can also make their lives better and better. In this direction, the Roma Party has proposed to specifically allocate funds in the agriculture budget and to make those funds for socially endangered, displaced and evasive persons. Surely, as a representative of the Roma Party, I insisted that some of the funds be allocated to Roma integration for a very simple reason. Many Roma work as seasonal workers in agriculture. Many Roma have thus learned to work in greenhouses, in plastics, with small subsidies, means by one family, with a small piece of land that can be given to them by the municipality - we create from one social layer of the population a working-active population, we create self-sustainable families, which can in a different way make their existence come true. What I did yesterday brought me a little confusion, so I would really ask the minister if he could answer that question, because we had a firm promise from the Ministry of Agriculture -- that these were good ideas, that they were good amendments. We also consulted them on determining the volume of funds. However, yesterday we received informal information that you have different information and that these amendments have not been accepted by the Ministry of Agriculture. So I'm asking you to get the right information - is it the scale of the funds? I'm willing to make an amendment to the amendment if it's the scale of the funds, or it's a political issue, that that direction is wrong and that the budget in a different way wants to define the issue. The next thing I want to talk about is, unless the amendments to the Roma Party I submitted are accepted, that 6.5 million are singled out in the Social Policy Ministry, and five million in the Human and Minority Rights Service, it is definitely the process of improving the situation of the Roma, then definitely implementing a strategy on Roma integration, then definitely changing the position of Roma in Serbia, and in particular a change in the position of 50,000 members of the Roma national community, for which most voted to return from Europe with a readmission treaty, cannot be realised. There's simply no capacity in the government to realize the whole story. When we spoke to the Ministry of Agriculture to allocate these funds, they told us very clearly - we are ready to allocate these funds, but we need help in realising, we need people who will practically do it on the ground. If there's really a huge burden in the budget to single out 11 million dinars in two items, then I don't know what I'm talking about here in parliament, and then I don't know how we think we're helping 500,000 people? I say, Minister Rasim Ljajic had a good will and he agreed to do so in the conversation I had with him. We expect his members from the Sandzak Democratic Party, who were really visiting Roma settlements, who promised Roma to create conditions for Roma integration, to come out here and what their minister promised, to try to explain to other members of parliament, because it is serious issues, about small money, but it is also about the demonstration of very clear and concrete political will.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13804	Thank you, Mr. Shane. The word has Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13805	A very short answer to the questions that have been asked here. So here are the talks between the MP and the resolution ministries, and we as the Ministry of Finance have nothing against, however they agree, we will support it. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that even without amendments to this idea can be realised, given that it is essentially a more detailed purpose of the means that otherwise exists in the appraisals, which is usually done through the Government's programme. It means that these resolute ministers take the obligation to define in the spending programme one volume for the specific purposes mentioned here. Therefore, we have no objection to whatever agreement is reached, we will honor that agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13806	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13807	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to make my remarks on the draft budget. This proposal for the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia continues to deepen the gap between developed and undeveloped areas. Obviously, despite the introduction of regional development portfolios within the Ministry of Economy, this budget does not allow for the increased development of undeveloped ones, which will cause their further lagging, which is more apparent in the case of the Presevo municipality, which with earlier 20% of the national average of the corrected national income, now has seven times lower income per capita than the corresponding national average. Also, this draft budget did not adequately address the problem of equating the position of national minorities, nor did the 2008 budgets for the National Minority Fund, which were set out five years ago by the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. In this way, the established advice of national minorities cannot continue to achieve the successful collective rights of minorities. It is precisely because of the lack of financial support from institutions that would professionally address specific issues of minorities in the fields of education, culture, information, official use of language and minority letters. However, there is an even more drastic situation in the draft budget when it comes to the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipality co-ordination body, because following the halving of funds for the government's body, this year's 2008 budget is now proposing a growth of only 3.6%, well below the growth rate of total budget spending for next year. In this way, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a very sensitive situation is defined for abandoning the 2001 programme's international commitments to address the crisis in the Presevo Valley. In February 2001, the government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the then federal government, in co-operation with the NATO Council and the permanent OSCE Council in Vienna, formed a programme to achieve the collective rights of Albanians, then a programme to integrate them into the social and state system of the Republic of Serbia, a programme for the economic development of this area, as well as a programme to ensure the security and stability of this area. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been very irresponsiblely neglecting commitments since 2004, even though very serious support from the OSCE and very important international donors such as USAID, UNDP and the European Agency for Reconstruction has been provided all this time. Just because the government of the Republic of Serbia's inadequate approach has not yet succeeded in reorganising the Co-ordination Body, and therefore we have a catastrophic economic situation, with a record unemployment rate of around 70%, and a number of very sensitive problems in education, health, culture, information and official use of language remains unresolved because they are completely ignored, not only by the Coordination Body but also by the relevant resolution ministries, and a number of state authorities at the municipal and county level remain unreachable for Albanians in this area. Because of these facts, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Chapter 3.9, which requires at least keeping funds at 2006 level. years for the Coordination Body, so as not to allow further devaluation of the initial results achieved in this area in the first three years. I will also support the amendments tabled by other Manjin MPs to fund the National Minorities Fund, as well as to address the problem of minority learning homes, which should be helped to provide traditional religious communities of national minorities and minority programmes in the fields of culture and information. In a situation where the most underdeveloped municipality in the country, the Presevo municipality, with about 40,000 inhabitants, is passing through Corridor 10, and from the Coordination Body this year, out of the estimated 66 million and 700,000 dinars, only about 58 million dinars were realised, and from the National Investment Programme for 2006 and 2007, projects amounting to less than 30 million dinars were realised, and in addition to the Republic Development Fund, only two beginners were able to obtain two million and 400,000 dinars, the question of what does the Coordination Body do and what should this government do to finally begin to realize the established facilities seven years ago? Also, if I were to add that the House of Culture, whose reconstruction began in 2003, was not completed, this year because of the lack of funds in the Coordination Body, means it has been abandoned and half the largest investment in this municipality has been left in the last four or five years. If we continue to add that the Youth House in the railway station remains usurped by members of the gendarme for seven years and if we add that 16 apartments intended for the economy of the Presevo municipality in 2002-2003 are also usurped by state authorities and assigned to members of the state authorities, then if we do not have a more serious approach here and we do not improve the budget proposal, I am afraid that we are leaving the political process of solving the serious problems that we have in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13808	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The People's MP Jovan Nesovic has the word, and then Natasa Micic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13809	Dear President, Mr Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an income and expenditure plan, namely the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is due to be certified by the MPs here in the Serbian Parliament. What Mr. Minister said and as indicated in the proposal for this budget, that the government of the Republic of Serbia will try to secure several things in the short and medium term, of which the most important macroeconomic stability is that inflation will be up to 6% in the next period, dynamic economic growth means about 6% annually, employment growth and population standards, an accelerated process of stabilisation and accession of Serbia to the European Union, the accelerated implementation of remaining economic reforms and more uniform regional development. Looking at what the government has in some way planned, I would like to say a few words that one part of this budget, which refers to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, will help achieve the objectives defined in this draft budget. It is primarily about increasing employment and economic growth, more equal regional development and, ultimately, bringing the country closer to European integration. Part of these measures has been applied in 2007 and all analyses show that they have produced some results and as soon as something is good, it is good to continue in 2008, and this is planned in this budget. What is very important, and it is seen in the items related to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and this year more than three billion dinars will continue to be credited to businesses in the entire territory of the Serbian state. These funds are intended for short- and long-term loans, and these loans can be used for the purchase of equipment, re-compromisations, the construction of production plants and all that is important in some way for businesses to operate more easily and to develop business. The second part of the funding is also intended for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and will be directly invested through the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, and the budget is planned for this purpose by 272 million dinars. Last year in Serbia, for the first time, the so-called loan started. start-ap loans, i.e. loans for beginners, for people who have an idea of how to start their business, simply, somewhere around 5,000 applications were for these loans, about 1,800 loans were granted. What does that mean? Of the 1,800 loans, I hope that a large number of those people who have started their business will become small and medium-sized enterprises that will develop in the coming period, and by all indications the backbones of the development of many countries, as well as the countries of Serbia in the coming period, as regards the economy, is the development of these small and medium-sized enterprises. For this purpose, in this year, the budget envisions 2.2 billion dinars. In economic analyses, we all know that the state of Serbia currently has a significant external trade deficit and exports of our products in the coming period are very important. Looking at this, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has proposed, and the government has adopted, that 1.2 billion dinars be allocated in this year, which means to reduce our external trade deficit. What does that mean? All operators that can come out of the market, who have a product for the market, will be helped by the state in order to better conquer these markets and to make it easier for them to produce quality and quality products that can be placed on certain markets. There will also be one good thing going on in the course of last year, especially among young people who are finishing colleges and who have certain innovative activities, that all the innovations they have can turn into a finished product, and for that purpose is allocated about 250 million dinars, 50 million dinars more than was allocated in 2007. It will also continue through the National Employment Service to support active job-seeking measures, i.e. employment, and this means lending public works, and self-employment and severance to work and all that results in the maximum number of people employed in the coming period, and three billion dinars are foreseen for this purpose. Finally, another measure that is very important is to take care of both the working conditions and the salaries of people with disabilities. To this end, entrepreneurs will be subsidized from around a billion dinars in 2008. Last year, a measure related to undeveloped areas, i.e. to the development of the economy of these undeveloped areas, also took place. Why? It has been shown, according to some analyses, that the difference between the most underdeveloped areas in Serbia, or municipalities in Serbia, and the most developed municipalities in Serbia is 1:15, the difference is indeed large in this scale, while in developed countries the difference is 1:5. Looking at this, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, with the support of the government, provided certain credit funds to the economy of these undeveloped municipalities last year, believing that economic activity and employment of people will be strengthened, and simply, these loans are very favourable, they are at an annual interest rate of 1%, and this year they will continue through the Development Fund, and for that purpose, two billion dinars are allocated this year. The development of infrastructure, particularly municipal infrastructure, industrial zones, technology parks, is simply important for all municipalities in Serbia and through the National Investment Plan this year, through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, is planned to spend around 4.4 billion dinars. It will certainly in some ways improve the quality of people’s lives in those environments. What is also important where the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development can make its biggest contribution is the development of tourism in the state of Serbia. According to the tourism development strategy, over a billion dollars has been planned for the next three or four years of tourism in Serbia. This year's revenue is expected to be around $600m, and in order to achieve that revenue of a billion over the next three or four years, it must indeed be accounted for in the coming period for the quality of the tourist offer, as well as the quality of the tourist infrastructure. Last year, some 4.5 billion dinars were invested in the state of Serbia for tourism development, this year the amount of money to be invested, planned in the tourism development budget, is slightly higher and will be around five billion dinars. The majority of the funds, around 3.5 billion dinars, will be invested in the development of tourism infrastructure, and this refers to infrastructure for the needs of spas, mountain centres, river, Banja tourism, so on the whole territory of Serbia, they will try everywhere there are tourist destinations to provide quality infrastructure, to create preconditions to have a faster development of tourism in the state of Serbia. Even here, a billion more dinars need to be added that will go towards infrastructure development through the National Investment Plan, and these are projects proposed by local self-government or by state organisations. In addition, what was done last and last year, through the Development Fund, about 300 million dinars will be invested, which means more than 50 million dinars last year, to improve the tourist offer, i.e. businessmen who have catering facilities, will be able to compete and receive favourable loans, where the annual interest is 1%, in order to in some way improve the quality of their catering facilities. Looking at all that has been presented by the minister and what can be found in the 2008 draft budget, as regards G17 plus and the G17 plus parliamentary groups, we are satisfied with the 2008 budget. In the voting day, we will support the 2008 budget, which I count on other MPs to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13810	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for a pay phone to remind you of what we've discussed, and yet we haven't received an answer because of the unwise response of the President of Parliament, I wouldn't use any more difficult words because of one thing. I didn't consult with my colleagues, I didn't even tell Miss Natasha Jovanovic. Yesterday, at the moment of her presentation, so while she was behind the assembly pay phone, the camera of Serbian Television caught the minister, or vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic, who said, a fool. It doesn't matter if Miss Jovanovic is right, whether she's telling the truth or not, is everything true...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13812	What makes you say that, Mr. Wolfie, based on the video, so you think that's the case? I'm really sorry, but let's not convince yesterday what happened. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13813	Mr. Albianic, I'm ready to take a look at that video together, you and I. If I lied, Mr. Albian, I'm prepared to receive any punishment you want. I'm saying Mr. Djelic said from the scene, which was clearly seen in a direct transmission of RTS. I came out to say that it is simply not like the Vice President of the Republic of Serbia, that if someone has no arguments, that we are telling the truth here, that we have no argument, it is not a way to address the MPs, especially some lady in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thought Mr. Djelic would be here, I would have told him to his face, but here's Mr. Albianic, after you took Mr. Djelic's protection, not believing in my words, I would ask you to leave the chair seat and give someone else the presidency, anyone you agree with, go to your office and look at that video and then come down and say that Alexander Vukic was right or Alexander Vukic is a liar. Whatever you say, Mr. Albianic, I'll say it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13814	I'm not saying either. Please continue, as there is no one to replace me at this time. I'm irreplaceable. I'm sorry, go on. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13815	I'm quite certain of that, Mr. Albianic. So, I hope that Mr. Djelic will no longer be able to turn out like this, but what is more important for our country, I am counting on him to forgive him and Miss Jovanovic, but I am counting on what is much more important for our country, which we have not received an answer to, and I would ask you, Mr. Albianic, that you as an irreplaceable man, proven authority, the greatest authority, do something to get a final answer as to what Serbia is doing in terms of the decision of EU foreign ministers, who have decided to go in recognition of Kosovo's independence. Why are your friends doing this to us? On your lapel, Mr. irreplaceable, you have the EU flag and the flag of Serbia, or the Serbian flag. I ask you, is this flag for you to say that you are for the kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia? I don't know what other value the EU stands for today when it comes to Serbia, except for the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija from the Serbian state. It's the only thing that's transparent and the only thing we see every day. I don't want to talk about these trinkets that they're looking for in kilos of Serbian head meat, but what's more important than anything is Kosovo and Metohija. Is that why you're wearing that flag, Mr. Albianic? Is that why other coalition partners from the Government of the Republic of Serbia wave with the flag? We need an answer. Will you sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, if you don't think you would prefer the president's candidate for the regime, Boris Tadic, to Serbian Radicals President Tomislav Nikolic? Because they kidnap Kosovo and Metohija or you may be asking it here in the National Assembly to sign or not to sign, only if they respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. We've never heard of that from any of you before. So I ask you, Mr. irreplaceable, I would ask you at all costs and in every way to answer this question, and I am sure that as an honorable man, it will no longer suit you, that you will not allow yourself to bear the flag of an organization that participates in the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, because there is nothing more in our country than our country, from our people and our future. Please respond, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13816	I owe you an answer. So this flag on my lapel is the Serbian flag and flag of the EU, but also the flag of the Council of Europe. Of course, when you say values, EU values, Mr. Wolf, are Christian values, and this flag, blue with 12 stars, symbolizes the Eagle of the Virgin. For those who did not know that, and I believe that those who know what this symbol represents will not reach for those measures of recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. The word has the People's MP Predrag Stosic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by article 225 and 226 and requesting notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as from the President of the Dulic Assembly, if they can enable insight into the work of the Coordination Centre for the past year, as the SRS initiative requires that... Mrs. Kolundjia, can I speak from you? So I'm looking for a report on the work of the Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac Co-ordination Centre for the last year. The SRS initiative called for the Committee on International Relations to hold a meeting in Bujanovac due to problematic international relations. However, until today, although still required after the establishment of the International Relations Committee, we have not received a report from the Coordination Centre. By the way, I would also refer to Mr. Riza Halimi's exposure, which tells of the lack of development of southern Serbia, so I would like to remind him that he is the most underdeveloped municipality of Trgovište, not Presevo. Also, Bosilegrad is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities. As for the crisis you mention in southern Serbia, do you mean the case that took place on November 29th when Albanian high school students beat up two Serbian boys, also a high school student, one of whom was named Zafirovic Stefan, a fourth-grade student, received a fractured arm, while another Nakic Aleksandar, a second-grade high school student, received a head cut. Do you mean those problems?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13818	The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, at a happier time when the budget was adopted, the entire government sat here and thus gave meaning to the issue, and it took responsibility. Well, today's not the case anymore. For us from the LDP budget law is still the most important issue in this country, although I am sure that all parliamentary groups would disagree without talking about what is insufficiently developed awareness in the country about it, but simply Vojislav Kostunica fits every kind of disenfranchisement, including this. In fact, the budget law is the most important issue because the country's priorities, i.e. vital interests on the one hand, are being identified, and on the other hand, it shows how much the state cares about the future and how much it cares about its citizens. According to these priorities, as set out in the proposal for this law, one of the priorities of the state is to preserve high public spending. There's a reduction, but it's really symbolic. Therefore, this preservation of high public spending is in direct contrast to the growth of investments, and the only area for investment growth is just a reduction in public spending. I know that Mr. Minister knows this far better than I do and that growth in investment is the only way for new jobs and new jobs. It was also a recommendation for the IMF to significantly reduce public spending. The second recommendation referred to a surplus, however, in the draft budget, we have a deficit of over 14 billion, and that is exactly the amount of funds for losers, for 12 social enterprises and railways, which shows that in this country, there are losers, not private entrepreneurs, medium and small enterprises, for which about 200 million dinars stand out. Now I'd be more concerned with something that no one else has talked about, and actually it concerns all of us, which is the budget of the National Assembly. I don't think it's small or much, but I'd like to say a few words for the reason that a brutal campaign is being campaigned against the National Assembly in terms of spending and waste. I'm not against transparency. I did for all costs to be examined and everyone to stand behind them, but the question of parity is raised in relation to some other items. For example, the budget of the National Assembly of 2.1 billion is 10 times smaller than the budget of the cabinet of the president, Deputy Prime Minister, the General Secretariat, four services, four offices, one council and one 250 million air service. If we are wondering why a campaign is being conducted only and exclusively against the National Assembly in this regard, I think the answer lies in the budget provided for the Office for Media Cooperation. It amounts to 76 million, representing a third of the budget of the National Assembly, so the government thus showed that propaganda and the protection of the government itself is much more important than parliamentaryism, that is, than the National Assembly. Not to mention that for a whole billion of the budget, it is bigger than the total budget of the National Assembly, including not only the cost of 250 MPs, but over 300 employees in this assembly. For example, this press office, which has a 76 million budget, has only 38 employees. As far as priority is concerned, what I wish it wasn't, unfortunately it is, and every time it is, because we're actually a police state, it's the fact that the Ministry of Health has four times less than the Ministry of Police. I think it's some 11 billion figures for the Ministry of Health and 46 billion for the MUP. Also, I don't think it's good, and I think it's very conservative that the budget provides for an approximate figure for the Ministry of Faith and the Ministry of Local and State Self-Government. In fact, it's about 700 and a few million dollars, which, believe it or not, the Ministry of Faith has almost 50 million higher budgets. When I worked out those items, the expenses of the Ministry of Faith, I came across an amazing thing. In fact, 105 million are set aside from high school and for improving religion in schools, and 60 million for improving theology college, and the programme's goal is this - the goal is to have graduate theologians by 50% more than in the previous year in 2008. When you add to this that the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society has three times less budgets than the Ministry of Faith and there is no expressed need for this society as much information as it needs, then we see how much it is about one retrograde, reverse budget. Some institutions have also won, maybe I'm wrong, the minister can explain, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm wrong, for example. The Serbian Academy of Science and Arts over 200 million, almost the same as the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society. If you were to add, when I said that the budget is managed and cared for by people and the future of people, then I collected some items, let's say, to improve the situation of people with disabilities is set aside 51 million, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work is only 13 million, and you know how many accidents occur in this country; the improvement of teaching staff in primary schools is foreseen as a figure of 19 million, and for secondary schools, 13 million, and recently it was a fact that we are in 51st place based on international research at the quality of secondary education. All that I have stated, the cost of improving the position of disabled people, the cost of safety and health at work, for perfecting teaching staff is not half the budget of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Believe it or not, they have 147 employees, it's an entire factory of people. I think there were places and ways where this public spending could be cut and that's one reason why this budget couldn't be economically optimal, because it simply becomes and only is, it's politically optimal, because it preserves the existing state and preserves the party state that took the root to the end. It's nice that you're with us, Minister, that you came here to bear this debate, but basically, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that it is, you're just one figure for me to conduct Kostunica's reverse and wrong policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13820	The People's Messenger Milorad Belic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Borka Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13821	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, when talking about the budget, of course, there are always a lot of conflicting, different opinions, different approaches, which again depends on the professional and political belonging of the one who observes the projection, or the draft budget. Of course, this is the most significant law the government has passed over the year, because practically the entire state is functioning thanks to this law, that is, the Serbian budget. An ordinary citizen, when he thinks about it, likes to hear that the budget is still proposed with a surplus, that the salaries will increase next year and that employment will increase, i.e. the standard of living will improve. These are the two or three things that affect everyone in Serbia most, and it is quite understandable that they are watching this story that is being led in parliament when it comes to the budget. What exactly does the government offer with this budget and what is waiting for us in 2008? I will try again from my point of view, from the point of view of my profession or political belongings, and with the hope that I will not repeat myself and take valuable time away from my colleagues who also have a registered discussion. In a discussion at the parliamentary club and on the assembly committees, we received a clear idea that the proposed law on the government's budget was the intention to maintain macroeconomic stability and that is a fundamental, key set of budgets. Everything else comes from that basic assumption. When it's going to be achieved now, that's another question. All budget beneficiaries were to be satisfied, to provide salaries, and about 260,000 were to be made available to them and to provide them with basic resources to work. On the other hand, funds were to be provided to stimulate production, to invest which would in fact lead to employment and, on the other hand, to reduce the external trade deficit, i.e. public consumption, which is the biggest problem. In this circle, of course, the previous government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica and the current government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica are moving and trying to pass measures and such laws and such a regulation that will be the most realistic picture of what is happening in the country. Otherwise, it is known that the deficit is 14.8 billion, and that both revenues and expenditures are higher by 9.9%. In total incomes, the largest item is, as we heard, revenue from value added tax, and they are higher by 15.2%, i.e. some 311 billion dinars, as well as revenue from excise goods, which are higher by 12.5% or around 111.27 billion. On the other hand, the largest items are certainly salaries and transfers for compulsory social security, as well as for PIO. A very important item in the budget, which weighs many citizens, concerns the government's responsibility and fears of overindebtedness. How are things now? The state of debt of the Republic of Serbia is about 9 billion euros and the majority is related to outstanding pensions, an old foreign exchange savings, even slightly over three billion. Many have already forgotten, even on the basis of the return of citizens' participation in Serbia's economic rebirth. It's no big expense, but here, we all forgot when it was. The state, however, also has a duty to those citizens. Public debt participation in the gross social product is about 30%. Of course, these private duties to the company via ino-credits etc., for which the state did not give the guarantee, had no obligation, did not enter into this sum. In this year, the state will issue a guarantee of up to 66.19 billion, and above all, those funds will be intended for infrastructure, local self-government development, project loans of 57.96 billion will be granted, and primarily for regional projects, national projects, but also for the resolution of consequences and for the elimination of the consequences of the elemental disasters that have mercilessly hit Serbia for the last two or three years. There is nothing that has hit us, so we have recently had the opportunity to adopt here, namely to ratify the loan framework agreement concluded with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development at 10m euros, but another 20m euros, or 50m euros, are planned in the second and third phases. Anyone hit by an elemental accident, and in recent days this is the case with southern Serbia, last year we had a case with several regions in Serbia. One of them is Valjevo. The estimated damage from over 70 million dinars, the government was in a position to deliver one-time assistance to the municipality or citizens of just five million dinars. Of course, it's something the government has to take care of. That's the social dimension, we'd say the human dimension, that people need help when it's the hardest, and there's no means. It is clear that one of the ways or mechanisms for providing these funds and taking credit, i.e. borrowing, is. As to the intention of what the government's basic objectives are in 2008, they stem from what I said in the opening part. A reduction in public spending, maintaining macroeconomic stability of the state and, of course, a reduction in the external trade deficit that is extremely large. On the other hand, as well as significant control or very significant control of salary growth. It is predicted, of course, that the growth of the average wage is lower, or slower than the growth of the gross social product. It's something that's completely understandable and that we have to agree on. When we look at users, in terms of sections, or in terms of heads and economic classifications, we can agree either less, or not with individual proposals. I will try briefly to list several sections, which I think could have been repacked differently and that as New Serbia's MPs we would have been much happier and happier when we pressed the green button and voted for this budget. For example, in the Ministry of Agriculture, funds are provided for in the amount of 19.25 billion, and are primarily intended for subsidies for the improvement of livestock farming and the introduction of modern systems for quality control of production, processing, etc. A major problem in the country that has always been the main part of its national wealth, but also income, has been achieved by funding and investing in agriculture. We agreed a few years ago with the appointment and the last government, which was in May in 2004, that the strategic, fundamental branch of the agricultural economy and that we have to invest much more in it, and we know what has hit us all over the years, and what are the consequences of the great droughts. In this regard, it may be necessary to consider investing more resources in preventive action, which I will talk about a little later, and I think, above all, about the funds that are intended for the Republic hydrometeorological institution, etc. As for the Ministry of Infrastructure, the funds are projected at 20.3 billion, and we know that huge investments, and above all in travel infrastructure, are started. Some investments are over. There's a big part of it this year. Also, significant shifts were made both in air and in rail traffic, which we had the opportunity to talk about here, regardless of the different views of the opposition. The facts are facts, and when we look at both numbers and percentages, it is unorthodox that significant shifts have been made in the sector compared to 2000. There was strong support from the Ministry of Infrastructure, i.e. the former for capital investment and local self-government, precisely in terms of elemental disasters. We mentioned it several times, from the great floods, from the earthquakes, through the glides, the slopes of the roads, the destruction of houses, etc. In that sense, it was expected and I think it could, and we'll see from which position, the larger amount to be defined for this ministry. It is a great debt, of course, according to the contractors of the work by JP "The Paths of Serbia" and I am pleased that the draft law amending the Law on Public Paths has entered the procedure and we will discuss it much more closely. Just now to say that it's the result of a multi-year inheritance debt and it's not a debt of two or three years ago, as it's malignancies in some media, or by some politicians, but that it's a multi-annual debt, and that this problem we had because of the fact that the funds collected from VAT from excise goods are paid to the state under the obligation of VAT, in fact nothing has brought this public enterprise, which is why it's so much debt and has grown. I'm glad we're going to have a special opportunity to talk about this law. I can't forget anything else under four thousand damaged citizens in the Colubary County, it's that famous story, as soon as people see it, they say, here it is, this one's going to talk about the earthquake again. Right, that's what I have to say, it's a government commitment that was taken over in 1998 or 1999. There are another nearly four thousand citizens who are damaged waiting for their roof over their heads, and somewhere in the country’s debt at the moment is about eight billion dinars, or after the revaluation is done. It's a good thing the Ministry planned these 400 million, I did, and after consulting with my colleagues and the responsible people in the department, I realized that it's maximum at this point. There was no need to impose any amendments. I have to say, this is already a problem not more money, but only access to solving this problem. I have spoken of this several times, and the state has to make a much more serious effort, and of course also resolute ministries, and the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Finance, to find a different mechanism that will, within a relatively short time, damage these citizens and protect their interests. If we think about it, since 1998, next year in September, it's gonna be 10 years, and we've only got about 50% of those cases solved. Furthermore, I think the Office for the NIP has been identified with considerable resources, but they are not shown in a transparent manner. Simply put, the explanation of certain appraisals is that the largest funds are planned for services under contract, related to public knowledge with NIP projects, public debate, etc. That's about 54 million. But on the other hand, we have in the budget the existence of an Infrastructure Development Agency, which is based on this office to a good extent, and it has almost identical job descriptions, at least when it comes to public information, to helping design projects, to compete for individual projects. Ten.2 million dinars are foreseen for the agency. Those 50 million dinars aren't much of an asset, but in function 410, EC 551, a projection of 9.8 billion will be used for other projects. What other projects? We would very much like to know what these projects are. We're waiting for that list, let's see what projects have gone through, if that's what it is, because there's a further explanation that the other 9 billion are used for the Vojvodina budget. Of course, it's a very clear thing. So I think we'd be much happier if we had one specification, one explanation from which we could see where that 9.8 billion from the NIP office will go. As far as the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is concerned, the colleague here spoke of the significant funds identified for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of undeveloped areas etc. The total amount in that ministry is 33.41 billion. However, if we want greater employment, to raise the standard of employees, we must invest in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is now, I think, the most profitable, simplest and most desirable at the moment, what the state can do. For example, 1.2 billion are scheduled for Serbia's ski resorts. We can talk about the country's determination to develop, among other things, tourism, or winter sports. The public enterprise "Skistations of Serbia" can operate as well as any other public enterprise, so it can also be based on credit to solve some of its problems or invest in some of its projects, but it could be part of those funds to define, for example, unlike the lady who just spoke criticising the budget, i.e. the division -- the Ministry of Faith, I think it's part of those funds, for example. A few hundred million, could also be used to rebuild the Hilandar, for which only 110 million were foreseen. In March 2004, it has been almost four full years, and yet it is not in a satisfactory way that dynamics of reconstruction and restoration of the greatest Serb sanctity and what binds us to the roots and tells us who we are, what we are and why we are. Next, at the Youth Fund, for example. 21 million. Yesterday we read in the press that college debt is based on unpaid heating obligations of over 200 million, e.g. Machine school. Or start school. Signs of how many projects we have to start. If we already want to talk about rationalising the education network, that those branches or exposures from those parent schools are abolished, because we don't have students, it's the biggest pain that requires a special law, which is a demographic picture of Serbia as it is, and that the state faces the fact that about 30,000 students are less registered compared to 1990 to 2000. That's one serious problem. Also, let's say 300 million are intended to promote the quality of the catering offer of natural persons, which is also in the context of the development of tourism, which is fine. However, 10 million founding roles for regional agencies, I must say, there is something that NS MPs can agree to with the opposition. Look, the National Office, the regional agency, the NIP Office, I've recently heard that diaspora offices are opening. If these agencies, these people's offices, these regional offices, the NIP's offices, are already needed, there's room opening up for some of the funds to be repacked where it's more necessary, so before I say, certain responsibilities here are doubled. I mentioned, speaking of the Ministry of Agriculture, the RHMZ. For the EC machine and equipment, 422.9 million are foreseen. Of course, the experience of last year tells us that these are insufficient funds, and that the RHMZ has faced a lack of anti-building missiles, poor equipment of anti-building stations and unpaid fees for Observers and shooters. It's a good thing that the government, or the resolution ministry, suggested that we not have that same story repeated, say, for a month and a half in Valjevo last year, there was a terrible storm, and out of 49 anti-urban stations, 42 had no required rockets, practically only seven could work. The time-planned means, sufficient resources, can also enable manufacturers, such as Valjevski Krusik, to produce not only a few hundred anti-urban missiles, I know that they are both technological and personnel fully equipped for this production, but to order 1,500 - 2,000 rockets, not to be privileged either "Polyester" or "The Trajal". It seems to me that these are the only three producers in the Serbian market right now. Of course, these funds are set for 3,300 shooters, or 920 observers. I think, for these reasons, the Ministry of Finance also predicted that the EC for compensation for damages on the basis of natural disasters, amounting to only 10 million, and that therefore the current reserves are 3.28 billion for all that again, God forbid, will befall us. My dilemmas and dilemmas of MPs from the NS have been said several times here, and when we talked about the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic, when we said that, when we adopt this budget, MPs will again face each other, in the section concerning the President of the Republic, where the classification of the National Office is. I've talked about it at least three or four times in my previous session. It's not about not having to. It's about us as MPs, and then the citizens, when we open this budget, we see that it says, "The People's Office, I guess 33.9 million, with a big fence, did I get a good reading of what was proposed?" We have proposed, just as the MPs of the NS, that even when adopting the law on the President of the Republic be legally enabled and a member concerning the right of the President of the Republic to form the National Office to communicate directly with citizens. It seems to me that's what that amendment we pulled said. So there is one big dilemma, and the second dilemma is, to solve the problem of reducing public spending and its participation in GDP, the ministry, or the government will face the problem of rationalising the workforce. If 259,824 employees are appointed, elected persons in the National Assembly, Government, Justice, etc. the planned funds, this year proposed an increase in the number of perpetrators compared to 2007 by 882, and the requirement came, of course, from different sectors, even 4.690. As now, it's a dilemma, I believe we'll get an answer to that, the resolutional ministries will behave. For example, in the judiciary, an increase in the number of perpetrators by 82. We know the problem of court's urgency, etc. Social protection - 54, of which 40 for the reception of the Roma, because of this decade and their integration and participation in those services, which is commendable and that we support. The prisons for new facilities - 264, but it looks like there's more and more clients there. IRS 145, Ministry of State Administration 26. If an increase in the number of perpetrators is justified, e.g. for the Constitutional Court, for the Guardian of Citizens, for the State Auditing Institution, etc., because, in practice, institutions that are justly invigorating, and if there are justifiably increased amounts foreseen for the functioning of these institutions, i.e. services, I can understand that, i.e. I would also like to get that information. And in the end, I'd still be stuck on two things. One is transfer funds, and the other is a division that concerns, that is, part of the education budget, because of course, I come from that sector and I have both moral and professional and political obligations to say something about it. When I talk about transfer funds, this year's revenue has been significantly reduced due to a reduction in the rate on the transfer of absolute rights of purchase of the first apartment and, of course, the right to inheritance and gift, which is reflected in that item. Of the 36.1 billion again, we have that problem that separates Belgrade, i.e. 10.1 billion, somewhere a third of the transfer funds. I know that there have been major objections, objections by the position and opposition, or by MPs who come from the interior, whether it is in the service and function of regional or even regional development, or whether it is again and again that the flossula that keeps repeating itself to us, so no matter who is in government, that Serbia is working, I don't know how much this is worth, and that Belgrade is building. Without intending to create some gap between colleagues from this area, I am really looking for much more understanding for those of us who come from the interior and who represent partially developed areas, undeveloped areas or completely undeveloped areas, such as the south or southeast of Serbia. I think the untapped possibilities may have been forgotten and she's talking about re-registering the vehicle. I was hoping that today he would also be Deputy Prime Minister because, as I recall, Mr Djelic gave support to Minister Ilic in efforts to find a modus and not break the law without allowing citizens who imported cars from the former brotherly community to do so. If that's 100,000, so it's 300 or 400 euros, it's not hard to figure out how much money it is and that money would be valuable, would it be for the development of the economy, whether to encourage the economy, these have become, and of course, also to increase employment. Yesterday, I think my colleague Tabakovic told me about it, and these are also taxes and taxes on the exploitation of natural resources, which local self-government does not use to a sufficient extent. As far as education and the 105.7 billion dinars are concerned, it's more than 22.37%, and it's still the biggest shift in participation in the gross social product, and from 3% we've climbed to 3.66%, and we intend to continue to reach that level of developed countries in Europe, ranging from 5% to higher. It's supposed to be 4.4% next year. Of course, the biggest problem is the bad structure in these planned funds, because 92.2 billion go to salaries and that is the biggest problem for the government, but also for more than 126,000 employees. What the ministry has solved, and I believe that these days and the public has also been introduced through resolute trade unions, and also through media, information funds, statements by the minister of education and finance these days, as regards this strike and dissatisfaction. There's another problem, which is really a many-year-old, decade-old problem, and that's a shifted system of values, that's the story where teachers are no longer the authority for their students, because they mostly live by weight or by preparing students there if their colleagues are in good relationships with them, so they have a need to save children from this or that case. Also, hyperproduction of colleges of private, higher schools, then, reduced thresholds, criteria and passability. It's almost unimaginable that we have schools today, that we have high school today where out of 35 students you have 30 students who are great. Why? Because of course we want to let these kids get into colleges as painlessly as possible. Then when they get to colleges, then the problem is whether we're going to enroll, whether we're bothered by the Bologna Declaration, whether we're bothered by something else, whether we're going to have too many programs, etc., everything depends on college to college. Another thing, when it comes to the degree of knowledge our children gain, a few days ago we read that at the test they were somewhere at the bottom or at the bottom itself, which is one serious reminder and, of course, to the government, or the state authorities that should deal with this problem, parents also, of course, to my fellow educators, who will do anything to enable their child to be educated, but for these very known reasons, they will have one different relationship with others. I think that story is quite complex and that in the next period, along with demographic law, or the law on material protection or reproductive protection of the population in Serbia, as a basis for being a starter, something we would say as a roof law, and that all other things must be deeply designed, because it is certain that our schools mirror the future mirror and image of a nation closer and further future. At this point, it is not very optimistic and, of course, all those who have neither Serbia nor Serbia, and everything that is in Serbia is not sacred and find or encounter a very fertile land and humus to disintegrate us, not only territorially, but, above all, in a spiritual sense, and of course, every crisis will be easily overcome or overcome in a certain period. This ethnic, spiritual, moral one has the longest roots and, of course, the most difficult and overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13822	The word is made by the People's Messenger Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13823	Dear Chairman, the other day I saw Rangel Nojkic and complained that when he was in Parliament in Kosovo, he did not always get the opportunity for replication. Of course, when Mr. Albianic is, and I don't get it sometimes, but well, thanks anyway, it's my turn. Just to read the data from the Department of Statistics of the municipalities in Serbia in 2006, where they give data on the corrected national income, and if the national average is 100, the Presevo municipality, as the most underdeveloped, has a level of 14.8%, then they get straight to Presevo, Medvedja with 17.6%, then Bosilegrad with 201, Tutin with 25.4%, a trade with 26.2%. These are the most underdeveloped municipalities at the state level based on the latest data provided by the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia. I think it should be respected, because it's still the data of a state body. As far as the Coordination Body is concerned, and here I have advocated, and as President of the Long-term Municipality, I have sought to have really accurate investment data from 2001 in this area, that it is well known in which municipality as much as it is invested, in every settlement as it is invested, so that we do not leave room for different politicalizations and arbitrary statements, which we have sometimes had the opportunity to hear here and here, so we absolutely agree that such an analysis should be done more urgently. When it comes to the budget, the other day Mr. Vukic promised, I even got a round of applause, for the requirement to provide scholarships and loans to Presevo students, Bujanovac, the Bears who study in Pristina, but unfortunately, Mr. Loncar says they can't, because scholarships are only received by university students financed by the Serbian budget. And in this case, again, students from our area are mostly 90% studying in Pristina, and the rest are in Tirana or Tetovo. Unfortunately, there are still no solutions here at our universities, because of language, economic, but also because of political and security conditions, so we need to find solutions there and we should go more seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13824	National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13825	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226, questions for Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Home Affairs and Education. If it were luck today, the entire government would be here, with the prime minister in charge, so I would directly ask these questions to those ministers. When it was on the agenda, there were also several ministers. Where's Bozidar Djelic? Yesterday, he promised to attend the National Assembly session all day long. Is that how you keep your promises? Is that how MPs and citizens of Serbia deceive themselves? But I keep pointing out the story of what about the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, what about the story of Kosovo and Metohija, please pay attention to what the budget contains in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. The day before yesterday, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija opened the ministry's office in Kosovo, Mitrovica. I'm afraid it's a little late. Today you have on the cover of "Politicals" and other newspapers an idyllic picture, where Ministers Velimir Ilic and Dragan Djilas celebrate the laying of a stone foundation for houses for displaced people in Zubin Potok. So let's see what happens to Kosovo, if it's not just an election picture? I was touched by this idyllic image, by the brotherly love and style of Ministers Ilic and Gilas, and the tears began to come out of my eyes, when I saw what kind of love flourished among them -- I guess there always was. But how will Serbian children in enclaves go to school and live in Kosovo and Metohija? Here's a reverse example. I have an MP's office where I take citizens every Saturday. A man named Agim Zaka spoke to me. He moved from Kosovo to Obrenovac on 1 September 2004. He works at the EPS. He moved on to TE "Nikola Tesla", he has two daughters, they are sixth grade students of "Jefimia", called Ehliana and Deliana. The man has spoken to all possible ministries, all possible institutions, these children are on the edge of the link. You see full eyes of tears, and they are loyal citizens of the Serbian state. I know that when I say this, it sounds like heresy, that the mass of those who say -- well, that's what happens to our children who have suffered torture. But in our tradition, in our history, in the Orthodoxy in which many swear, this mercy must be shown, love must be shown, good will must be shown, a broad heart must be shown. Every day, that's the word that was heard from this pay phone mentioning the title of a book, every day, two girls. It's really time to think of ourselves and show that we're truly tolerated. If someone has accepted to live here in Serbia, near Belgrade, no matter what happens to our children there, we must protect everyone, but also children of other nationalities living here in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13826	Thank you, Mr. Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Slobodan Maras. And you'll be in the Rules of Procedure, waiting for the Rules of Procedure. Then Zvonimir Stevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Rajcic, what do you want? (Dejan Rajcic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure.) He can't. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13827	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've reported to you regarding Article 87 and associated with Article 98. So last night we attended, one by one, who knows which way to break the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Parliament, but worse still, the President of the Assembly promised something last night. He promised that today the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic would sit all day long. We've been working for almost an hour and a half here, Mr. Vice President of the Government is gone. With full respect for Mr Cvetkovic, the finance minister sitting here trying to answer some questions, however, there are some questions Mr Cvetkovic cannot answer. Of course, the first one to answer those questions is Prime Minister Kostunica. But we don't expect him to come here, because the only thing we know about Mr. Kostunica is what he deals with -- these are myths. He with the economy and the lives of the citizens, and with real life and real life has nothing to do with it. That's why I would suggest, Mr. Albianic, that you give a 15-minute break, that you invite the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, to come, to keep his promise, to remind Mr. Dulic that he made his promise last night and bring in the Deputy Prime Minister so that we can ask him certain questions. I, for example, was interested and was fully expected to see the Anti-Corruption Council get less funds in the budget than last year. Mr. Djelic demonstrated it on several occasions. I mentioned, therefore, going to the opening of Delta City, where he then sent a direct message to the Anti-Corruption Council that the council would have to be shut down, that is, to establish a new body. However, I read in today's media that the State Auditing Institution, Mr. Minister, too, but above all I expect from Mr. Djelic, has received less money than she asked for and almost twice as much money. Those sitting on the fifth floor, and LDP MPs sitting on the fifth floor of the assembly, know that the Council of the State Auditing Institution as a tenant is located in the Republic Assembly. They are sitting in a fifth-floor hall, while MPs have no obligation to leave that room. So the Council of the State Auditing Institution is a tenant here. The president of the council urged them to find a place to work. What's he saying? This says that this government and those who swear to fight corruption are doing everything the opposite - with reducing the funds of the Anti-Corruption Council - they have also given the State Auditing Institution twice as much money through this budget as they need to work. The President of the Council of the State Auditing Institution himself said that certain funds they would have to work with, which are – services they take from some other authorities or institutions, or individuals, means translation services, even said that the problem is also with computers – they will not be able to achieve. The State Auditing Institution will not be able to control the spending of funds from the budget. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Albianic, follow Article 98 and take a break until the Deputy Prime Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13828	Thank you, Mr. Marash. As for the government's authorised representative, it is Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. He's present. We'll be happy to have someone else, like the Deputy Prime Minister. The word is made by the People's Ambassador, Zvonimir Stević, according to the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, for the second time we listen to you here and the public listens to you, you don't pronounce and you won't say what is being invested in Kosovo and Metohija, and you and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister last night. I don't know why you're doing this, you probably have a warrant from your mentors, the international community, and on the table on the agenda is the pre-election budget. It is good that it is invested in the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, but this government does not care about even investment in Kosovo and Metohija. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that it is not the same to live in Leposavic as in Mitrovica, as in Gracanica, Gorazdevec, Ranilug, the maritime region. Whether these are indications of some division of Kosovo, with I have no objection to what is being invested in the north, but must be invested in both central and maritime, both in Brezovica and Metohija. I answered, Mr. Chairman, because I received an answer to the question addressed to the Ministry of Labour on the use of budget funds for budget users in Kosovo and Metohija. I quote this part, don't count on me at the time: "In terms of activities related to Kosovo and Metohija, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, acting at the conclusion of the government, has prepared an action plan of measures to be taken in the event of a unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija. The action plan provides for a continuation of the payment of the rights and compensations so far paid under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Law on the financial support of families with children, the Law on Social Protection and the provision of social security for citizens, the payment of compensation under the rights granted in the field of martial law, the payment of all other types of assistance resulting from the financing of persons with disabilities in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. ''I am not satisfied with the answer and I am asking the additional question, I am asking the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance - why is the Government's Regulation on the payment of temporary compensation for 27,000 displaced persons who receive 4,600 and the Regulation has made the decision to receive 8,600 from 1 January? I got a letter about investment in Kosovo and Metohija, and here it's being said, yesterday someone was talking about some increase in funds for Kosovo and Metohija. It is not about the increase, but about the transfer of funds from this year to next year, because projects from the National Investment Plan planned for the central part of Kosovo and Metohija, for the maritime area and for Brezovica, have invested zero dinars. No project has been implemented. Here's a question for the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Kosovo, and Metohija for you, Mr. Minister - whether the implementation of the Kosovo Mitrovica Water Supply Project north, Zvecana and Zubi's Potok will begin in 2008 at the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of 30. 8. In 2007? The importance of this project is not to speak, and here is the conclusion of the government signed by Mr Bozidar Djelic, and they say that this conclusion of the government and these funds have not entered the budget for the following year, so I am also asking for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13830	The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be brief. I call for the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 101 and 104, which refers to Mr Batic's exposure, where in an offensive and tenantly poor manner he presented some events related to the government's activities and certain ministers in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sorry that Mr. Batic's moral thunder has now come out, because that's actually the system of his functioning. He comes here for this pay phone occasionally, throws, which would be people's, like, a gig, causing negative emotions amongst all of us, I believe, and then he comes out laughing, probably, somewhere out there. Its exhibition was on the construction of houses in Gracanica, where it was built on a hill above Gracanica 80 facilities for refugees and displaced persons, but who had to avoid and be refugees within Kosovo and Metohija. These people have escaped from space, say, Drenica, Serbs, Malisheva, etc., and I'm sorry that this country has no money to build more. Because if this same Mr. Batic had the strength or courage to go and look at that container settlement in Gracanica and see what conditions people live in the 21st century, I believe he would think differently and talk, if he had a little Christian feeling in him, since he is allegedly at the head of a party that is registered as a Demohsrican solution, and I would rather say the Demonchrist Christian Party. If he were here, or when he came, I would ask him to come out and answer all of us -- how did he feel and in what way he managed in 2001 only to let out 1,300 Shipars who were imprisoned, or convicted by the grounds of association for criminal action against the people and the state, and to tell us which, among other things, the tariff was then for the release of those same Shiptors? It is known to be hard to prove, but it is known that the tariff was, depending on the degree of the severity of the conviction and the length of the time to which they were sentenced, of 10,000 marks, then there were still German marks, up to a hundred and hundreds of thousands of marks paid by those Shiplars and their families, to whom else, if not the one who was the first to carry out public sanctions. I hope I haven't exceeded my time and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13832	Thank you. The right to replica is used by MP Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Riza Halimi, you said yourself, so your data regarding Presheva is from 2006. I've been talking about the latest data, and I don't want to have any discussion with you. What is obvious and what we agree with is that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as certain representatives of political parties, the southern central Serbia only remembers before the elections. We were able to hear Mr Djelic say here yesterday that he had said bravo about Vojvodina, bravo for Belgrade, where the employment rate grew, while Serbia below Nis did not exist for them long ago. They gave up south of central Serbia and apparently. What we don't agree on is the crisis. You're talking about some kind of crisis down there. So I invite you, since there is no crisis down there, do you insist on presenting that there is a crisis down there, to support your political friends who advocate the removal of the military and police from below and the arrival of NATO forces, so I invite you to come out here for a pay phone and say that is your request and do you support Kosovo and Metohija's independence? Is your request the arrival of international, i.e. NATO force to southern central Serbia? Come out and tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13834	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13835	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 202, and it could be said by all the members of our Rules of Procedure. Let me first ask Academyman Milorad Cic Pavic to explain to the public who the Hazari are, because his book "Hazard Dictionary" helped Serbian literature after Ivo Andric and Milos Crnjanski gain great reputation in European and world literature. In recent times, you can hear very often, and this was also the example of the last television show, to talk more and more often about the Hazars in the most disgusting way. If that, please, is a code, then I ask the authorities of this country's security to make sure that our anti-Hazards, which remind you of a poster that was otherwise published in Germany, a dinosaur (description) extinct, are too much of an armored lack of brain. Anyone who wants to be more detailed about it can read the book of academics Ljubomir Tadic, the father of President Boris Tadic, "Authority and Dispute". So, these anti-Hazards are simply recruiting into the dry Navy. Lately, we are increasingly in a position to see and hear various people who are retired, who are speaking to God about military doctrine, questioning the legitimate institutions of this country, muddling President Boris Tadic and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica in the most shameful way. Our public recently had the opportunity to hear former General Veljko Kadjevic. I've been a journalist for 35 years, and unfortunately I've heard that Mr. Kadjevic received 4,000 to 5,000 euros for his interviews. Let's honor him, that's proof of his patriotism. So those who dare at this time to question the legitimate institution of this state of Serbia, the military and police of Serbia, whose members today are in the greatest material misery, unlike those who enjoyed honey and milk, should at least be ashamed. I will end up with the famous Koca Popovic, who once spoke to irresponsible people "you did nothing for Serbia", easy and wise to answer - "nothing bad". From that lesson, please let quasi-politicals and irresponsible journalists and editors learn lessons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13836	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Ambassador, Zvonimir Stević, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of article 101. Rules of Procedure, for the presentation of fellow Rajcic. In fact, here was a lie, just before I said that 80 houses for displaced faces were built in Gracanica, which is not true at all, no house was built. There is a project and a promise from the government of the Republic of Serbia, four years ago, that a settlement will be built, but not done. There is a project back four or five years for Gracanica to make way of Gracanica - Laplje village, but never begins. In the central part of Kosovo and Metohija schools that were moved, primary and secondary, out of 30 schools attended classes in 15 schools. We have schools that have three shifts. This is what I'm saying and I said earlier that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution ministries are not taking care of the way and specificity of life in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. And if something is being invested and is to be invested in the north, I responsibly claim here, in central and maritime, in Brezovica, in Metohija, except for the promises and some chase over the projects, there's nothing. My colleague, in Gracanica, it's not true. There are 30 containers in Gracanica, where faces, families from surrounding areas, have been living there for eight years in container settlements.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13838	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague, Stevic, mentioned even regional development earlier, so I think we should compare some figures when it comes to detachment from the Kosovo and Metohija budget. In fact, last year, if you remember, I asked that through the Fund for Kosovo and Metohija funds be added to tenfold. My amendment has not been accepted. Now I see that the funds are more than ten times higher, which I want to say hello to, but I also want to demand that there is greater control of the spending of these funds, because practice has shown that these funds are in many cases unintendedly spent. You'll allow me to make another parallel when it comes to detachment of funds in the districts. According to the Kosovo District, 21.867,000 dinars were planned for the budget this year, and last year there were 52 million, meaning a drastic reduction; the Pećki district of 6,757,000 dinars, and last year there were 8,794,000 dinars; the Prizren County was 5,957,000, and last year there were 8,899,000 dinars; Kosovo-Mitrovaki, too, a reduction of five million and this is the most interesting, that is the Kosovo-Pomorabian district, for which the funds of 432,862,000 dinars are foreseen, you see the difference as drastic. When we analyse these funds, we come to the conclusion that some government ministers, or Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, have responded to the dilemma, and I think that he participated in this, has explicitly replaced some district and co-ordinators in Kosovo and Metohija. I say 432m dinars will be set aside for the Kosovo-Pomorava County. That is why they have brought their man, Srboljub Djokic, from G17 Plus, to the post of co-ordinator in the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica, and as head of Kosovo-Pomorava County, Dragan Nikolic, also from G17 Plus. They've replaced people from New Serbia and the DSS, these are silent, I don't know why, that's their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13840	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13841	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fellow MP Stosic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13842	Are you using the right to replicate or advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13843	Article 101, right on the line. He mentioned the problem of the Presevo Valley again, he asked several questions. I think that if the situation is followed closely here, and in the Assembly, especially the MPs from Vranj, they can follow this closer, it is known that the crisis of 2000 and 2001, which has been addressed jointly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Government, the international community, the political factors in this area. A two-government programme has been developed that has not been achieved in many of its important areas. No very important lenses from this program have been opened. In that context, I mentioned the crisis. Of course we don't have incidents there right now. The situation, you might say, as far as the security aspect is concerned, is solid. There are political tensions, there are dissatisfactions, just because the programme has not been achieved, and it is also a very difficult economic situation and, of course, there are many reasons for political tensions. Of course, when it comes to military and gendarmes, I've always advocated giving priority to the political component, not the militar. From that presentation that I had earlier, it has been seen that, most recently, much more is given to a militar component than to a political and economic one, unfortunately. I've cited a series of examples in favor of what I'm saying right now. I didn't just mention the announced 600 new professional soldiers, the number that came from official sources the other day. I absolutely don't think that's serious, because who knows since 1999 what number of forces is there. After all, that's why the new competition, and again additional militarisation, when there's already enough in the area. However, I think it is the most important economic and political approach to address problems in this area, and public order and peace can be guarded, local police and, of course, as border guards everywhere. In co-operation with KFOR and with Kosovo police, stability is absolutely possible in this area, as the situation is currently stable. That's it, and on the record for 2007, I'd like to introduce you if they hadn't been published yet. There's no official record for 2007, but they're from 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13844	The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13845	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Article 101-, if the Members of Parliament at the sitting are insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name, last name or function, etc. I'd just like another statement from the Rules of Procedure. I think you had to react to the exposure of colleagues from New Serbia, to that one notorious untruth he brought here accusing Mr. Vladan Batic of letting 1,280 Albanian nationalities out of prison in Serbia as justice minister. Sir, it was done between October 5th and the formation of a republican government. So Vladan Batic was not yet a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic. These people were released by Vojislav Kostunica, the prime minister of your government, so that later on, some of them, to be absolutely accurate, were later passed in the Federal Assembly a law on amnesty, which was voted by the president of your party Velimir Ilic, after which these 1,280 citizens of Albanian nationality were released. Some of them, which was previously released by Vojislav Kostunica, were personally monitored, it was on TV, Radomir Markovic, head of the SPS State Security, Gradimir Nalic, adviser to Kostunica for Human Rights and Ljilja Nedeljkovic, a consultant for not knowing what. So, not every time we say that you stole a single toilet of 50,000 euros, how much you steal on Horgos-Požega, how much you steal every day on projects that are more expensive than that, more than that. You go out with this nonsense and say that someone betrayed Kosovo or that Vladan Batic released some terrorists. At least when you're doing it, think about it for at least ten seconds before you bring a lie like that out here. You, Mr. Chairman, I pray that when some of the general known things like Vojislav Kostunica was playing those against whom he wants to fight today, that you react immediately, that we don't have to raise tension here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13846	The word has the People's MP Predrag Stosic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Riza Halimi, I didn't mention any coins in my presentation of the Presevo Valley. There's no such concept for me, and I never mentioned it for a moment. Which is why I gave you the basis for the replica, these are concrete questions, whether you support Kosovo and Metohija's independence and whether you are in favour of seceding that so-called Presevo Valley containing Preshevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac. Come out and say it. As for the presence of the military, it is normal for you to have such demands that you want to alienate part of Serbia's territory, it is normal for the military to be in greater presence. Do you advocate the secession and independence of Kosovo, the secession of Kosovo from Serbia, and did you also advocate the secession of those three municipalities whose resolution you made? You participated in the resolution and secession of the three municipalities. Come out and say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13848	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Belic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13849	Short on the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. Indeed, New Serbia and Minister Velimir Ilic were mentioned in an extremely offensive context. I really don't know, dear colleague Andric, talking about the flat-rates and the flat-rate political attitudes that are truly unthinkable, we can agree that it seems very present in Serbia, but you said right behind such criticism - who knows how much you stole Horgos-Požega, concessionaire, etc. Where did you get that information? Do you know what you said 30 seconds ago? That you don't need to give a flat-rate assessment. No, but for your political reasons as an opposition, party or coalition, I don't know what you are, I once said maybe a lapus, but maybe not, you have a presidential candidate and it's all your legitimate right. We really stand for it here if we talk about something to talk about with arguments, numbers, data, documents, etc. I just wanted to say so much, nothing more. If someone was stealing anything there are processes, there are procedures to do it in front of justice, absolutely we have always been for such a story, but we are doing a flat-rate assessment, not to talk about how much damage you do just by insisting on a capital strategic project for citizens of Serbia, especially for all of us from western and central Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13850	The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13851	Mr. Chairman, I think LDP colleagues lose their minds and something when their boss isn't here. I was just talking to him the other day, realizing what a political campaign is, what presidential elections are, what presidential candidates are, and we agreed. Whatever you say, you will never get any votes from whoever is for Velimir Ilic and New Serbia and vice versa. I don't know what the logic of what you're doing is. You're humiliating yourself. I remind the citizens of Serbia, the people, all MPs, all parties, your leader did not vote for the polling committee, as the survey committee, Mr Andric, was called, on the business of Miskovic. We'll print that electronic report in 200,000 copies and prove you're just fakes. So Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic did not vote to set up a survey board to see how Miskovic operates. Why didn't he vote? Is this the last offer to Mr. Miskovic for money from those you don't like to find out that something wouldn't have happened to them? Why? Why do they call you the Peco Party? Who's this Peco guy? Is there a sequel or just a Peco? A child called Peco. Peco's going on a campaign, and he's attacking the mouse. Why didn't he vote for the board of inquiry? That's what you get out of here and tell Andric. An electronic report, citizens of Serbia, will be printed in 200,000 copies, officially from the Serbian Parliament, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic did not vote, and for a month the delay of the citizens of Serbia, primarily your membership, because you were all together, I saw it well, insecurely turning around that there is no Chad to vote on. You all voted, New Serbia voted, Cank's MPs, but did not vote Ceda Jovanovic to set up a polling committee. Kostunica did not even ask for the polling board, but sought LDP and its leader, and campaigned to fight Miskovic, and did not come to the Assembly to vote. It's a policy of LDP and Ceda Jovanovic, hypocrisy and lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13852	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Vladan Batic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not because I'm hurt by what Mr. Rajcic said to me, because it's really to the point of stupidity that he doesn't deserve attention. I would also ask Mr Markicevic, as head of the parliamentary group, to expect your apology for the simple reason that it is not only slander on my behalf. You know what the man said and then stayed alive? If I, Vladan Batic, had released 1,300 Albanian prisoners or prisoners from prison for money, I would have taken the money for it. The numbers were also mentioned. It's already a question of the metal state of health of anyone who says so. Why? Because the amnesty law was passed on the basis of which these people were released. But, to me, it's more than just nonsense. Why? If anyone in this country fought to bring KLA members to court, Albanian terrorists, then it was me. My family suffered, received threats every day, Ramush Haradinaj is there on the basis of documentation that my associates, along with me, collected on KLA crimes against members of Serbian nationality. Every day I had controversy with all the coordinators, at the time I was Minister, Kusner, Hekerup, Holkeri, Steiner, about the problem. Then someone comes out and utters such a diabolical slander that has nothing to do with common sense. But, Mr Markicevic, you know that Cedomir Jovanovic welcomed Serbian children from Zubi Potok and that he was a few seconds behind on the agenda vote. Now you use it as a capital matter, that Cedomir Jovanovic did not vote in favour of forming a survey board. I mean funny, really trivial. No one was even disfellowshipped from a parliamentary group in which I was as a DHSS MP, and especially no one was embezzled, as you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13854	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go. Please refrain from difficult words and qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13855	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also had to use this time the right to violate the Rules of Procedure. The other day, I had a replica here, and I was trying to discuss with some MPs the Radicals on this subject -- 1,300 imprisoned Albanians in Niski Prison. I am now surprised that this topic is being opened by the MPs of the parties that make up the current government. This is incomprehensible at such a sensitive moment, that once again at a civilizational moment, on a human subject, on a tragedy, without any element of the right of the imprisoned people, at a time when it was killed, that now, several years ago, people who have at least tried something humane to do, and somehow try at least partially, and only partially, to repair the share of a tragedy. Now they're so facelessly accusing each other of something that was at least an attempt to do something humane. Does it really make sense to talk about both the Kosovo issue and the Kosovo status, and what little time Mr. Stosic was saying when people from Kosovo and their tragedies were being debated so facelessly? If this fiction of medieval Kosovo is only about space, not about people, and that the fate of these people is not about anyone here but only about political points, I think it's a real big tragedy for this time, the 21st century, that we're back in season from the 19th century, that have failed forever. Shall I now mention the events of the Dry River from the trial that is now taking place? Is there any point in reopening this topic and how dead people came across Serbia at the time? We're talking about whether we should have let those poor 1,300, who were collected from the street at the time, and we're now making political points on the subject -- who let them go and what money he was getting for it. I don't think this tall home deserves this atmosphere to be created here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13856	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13857	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I responded to the Rules of Procedure because the name SPS was mentioned in a completely unreasonable context for us. In a story by fellow MPs about the Law on Amnesty and the release of Albanian terrorists, and by the way, we Socialists were also against the Amnesty Act and against the release of Albanian terrorists, MP Ivan Andric found it appropriate to mention the SPS and Radet Markovic. I'd like to ask my colleague and others who have similar intentions to get out of this job. Leave Mr. Radet Markovic alone. A campaign against him has been campaigning against him for ten years. And before 2000, not to mention after 2000. You, members of the former DOS, leave the man alone. It's a little bit like you arrested him, passed the law, blackmailed him, forced him to give false statements, blackmailed him with the position of his wife and child, exposed him to inhumane acts, to sign something that you wanted to be true. Leave the man alone, let the state do its job. Don't create an atmosphere but a sentence is made, just one signature waiting. Especially since this story is mentioned in a context that really has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda or what was the cause of a replica or reporting to the Rules of Procedure. If anyone has anything against the SPS, we're here, we're at our disposal. If you have something between you, then work it out between you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13858	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Zoran Krasic. Calm down, you'll get your word. Here you go, colleague Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13859	Mr. Esade, I appeal to Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. I know you couldn't intervene because the debate in the benches was in the other direction. Mr. Riza Halimi said something from this pay phone that would make us all have to imagine if such things could be said from this pay phone. He said we should abandon the medieval fiction on Kosovo and Metohija as a work or as a territory of the Republic of Serbia. You read the stenogram, you'll see what he said. I don't know where someone came up with the idea that it was fiction. Maybe someone who suffers from mirage can afford such things and say from this pay phone. But yes, Mr. Esade, you wouldn't have a problem. I'll continue to link this to the subject of today's session. Look, dear gentlemen, a division of 23 and a division, let's say, 3.9. how much resources are allocated to protect the cultural monuments of the Serbian people in southern Serbia and in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Mr Cvetkovic, prepare to explain to us why, for the south of Serbia, specifically for the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, you did not plan anything to rebuild cultural monuments? You must know that there are only cultural monuments of the Serbian people. If you're considering that something 100, 200, 300 or 500 years old, you don't have a single stone there that would depict any other culture that could be a cultural historical monument. Because you don't finance the restoration of our cultural historical monuments in 2007, that center hasn't separated any beaten dinar, and there lies so much cultural historical treasure. Mr. Cvetkovic, just to remind you, a village near Presevo was completely Serbian until perhaps 20-30 years ago. There's a church left and there's a cemetery. All the monuments of the tomb are destroyed, as Mr. Riza would say, little children. All of this is done by small children, young children both in Kosovo and Metohija did what they did. If you were to spend more money on these divisions, these would not be discussed in the medieval fiction of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13860	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13861	Article 100 and Article 101. Mr. Chairman, the MP who wishes to speak about the violation of this Rules of Procedure or the chairman gives the floor immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. I checked in while I was being mentioned by colleagues from New Serbia. Please don't insult us as other MPs speak and threaten us from that pay phone, it has no effect, it just increases anger. A few things. First of all, we're not against the Horgos-Požega highway. I just turned my attention to one more thing that the president of your party is doing, which is that the citizens of Serbia have barely been able to see that contract. When I talked about it, I said who knows what's going on out there. When someone does not give the contract and so firmly defends that it does not give the contract, it is up to us, believe us, and to every citizen of Serbia to doubt what is in that contract. That's what I'm talking about. As far as our answer is concerned, we've said there's a substitute for thesis all the time. When we warn what some of the ministers are doing, one of his MPs comes out and accuses us of betraying Kosovo. That's right this time. For what Vojislav Kostunica did, you went out and accused Vladan Batic of doing it and that he still got the money for it. Then you went out again and moved on to the subject of who did what further. So we just pointed out, we won't keep quiet, you can't tell your lies about us. Mr. Professor Obradovic, Rade Markovic, whom you call a man, was head of state security at the time when members of the state security killed Ivan Stambolic, at a time when they tried to kill Vuk Draskovic and who knows what else. The fact that you want us not to attack him, that's what you should have thought about while he was head of state security, so you wouldn't let him do it. Don't expect us to keep quiet, because it hasn't been finished after eight years, it speaks more about this society than Radet Markovic. We accept criticism that this process is still going on in the part in which we are responsible, which is from 2001 to 2003. No further. It is the man Vojislav Kostunica left as head of state security, allowing him to destroy all documents by January 2001, when the Serbian government was formed. The process to date is because it was allowed to abuse its position from 5 October 2000 to January 2001. The formal first decision by the government of Zoran Djindjic was the shift of Radet Markovic. Let me remind you. Perhaps he is a man for you, for our MP group he can't even be a man who's responsible, even objectively, for something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13862	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has a word by the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Riza Halimi, then the Messenger of the People, Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13863	Dear MPs, I wanted to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, that it was said earlier by Mr. Zarko Obradovic, I believe it was an insult to parliament, because it was about defending a man who has a judicial verdict. Can we in parliament defend people who already have executive judgments? It's not just on charges anymore. A short time ago, counterpart Ivan Andric said that the Ibar highway, the process really takes eight years and that the process has not been completed, unfortunately, has been too long. There are two executive rulings when it comes to Radet Markovic, one executive verdict for the murder of Ivan Stambolic, and the other for those CDs listening to people, that's another executive verdict. I plead that where there are executive judgments, there's really no point in defending it, because it's insulting public morality, it's supporting criminal acts. I think that's where we understand each other and that maybe you're defending now only in that part, where there's no Ibar highway. There are two executive rulings, and we must once stop at parliament to defend the people who are accused and where the verdicts are handed down, because it's a blow to our court. We can't humiliate all institutions and it's also an insult to our country. We say ourselves, if that court around whom there are always problems and citizens complain about that court, and when that court comes to judgment, then we tear down those executive judgments brought by our court. Let us once respect the judgments of that court. If the verdict is down and Ivan Stambolic is down, don't represent such people who are charged with serious crimes and convicted with justice. I pray that such cases are no longer presented in parliament. It really doesn't make sense. It's a propagation of criminal acts and an insult to public morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13864	Thank you. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the People's Messenger, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13865	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101, and so can the 225th and 226th. Mr Krasic, without a doubt, has wide education and quite general knowledge, and I am surprised when he is fairly familiar with incorrect things, that in southern Serbia, the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, there are only objects of Serbian culture and nothing else. I guess history is a little bit wider and longer, and there's something else in that area. You know that well. While relatively well-preserved Orthodox religious facilities, you are here for a long time, please state how much the ministry responsible has been issuing for Islamic religious objects. There's a village called Slavovac, I'll have a name, not like you, some nameless village, 35 years ago, living next to Serbs and Albanians, now they're gone. They had a mosque. Now that mosque is the only foundation left, it's destroyed. Go and take a look. The grave is buried. I don't see any of that making a problem. Let's set up a little wide-ranging of these problems, which should definitely be solved, but not like this cheerleading. Serbs have their own culture and history. I guess the others have something, too. Were there objects of Islamic culture there? Have you recently been to Nis, have you seen the state of the mosque? What about other religious Islamic objects in Serbia, in what state? Is there any memory of what they used to be? We're talking about these topics, but let's make it objective, let it be supported by arguments and without that cheerleading passion, because I don't see what and where we go with this logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13866	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13867	Mr. Chairman, obviously in this House everyone listens to what they want to hear. I asked loud and clear, and I didn't get an answer, what in the debate on the Law on Amnesty and the release of Albanian terrorists, what does this have to do with Radet Markovic and the SPS? What does it have to do with the Law on Amnesty and the release of Albanian terrorists, except by the way? I said loud and clear, let the state do its job. The problem is, you've already drawn judgments for everyone. For all of you former DOSs have passed judgments. And present, thank you, colleague Markovic. You're judging in advance, and the judge just needs to sign the verdict. I'm talking about 10 years of campaigning unrelentingly, and the fact that Mr. Markovic in The Hague, in a trial before another prosecution, an institution that you consider absolutely primary to this national legislation, has given you absolutely no other statement, that means anything to you. By exposing him to inhumane actions, blackmailing him with his wife and son's position, that's not to be said, that's part of the mile after 2000. Qualification that he is not human, so listen, you DOS have been hanging out with members of the Zemun mafia, those who killed Prime Minister Djindjic, and you're talking to us about who should be qualified as a man and who doesn't. You hung out with them, it was a great love and a great friendship. Remember what happened after 2000 or you suddenly lost your memory for everyone. What fits - it can, which doesn't match - it can't. When you thus respect the institutions and the judicial authority, as one branch of government, do you know what a drop of the judicial authority is - the Constitution. Do you respect the Constitution? You don't respect me. Did you hand over Milosevic? Yes, it is. Is that the opposite of the Constitution? Yes, it is. What do you want, no one from this booth to say a word about what you're doing or what you've done? Well, you can, and if you don't like it, file a report, so go ahead, let the state do its job. You want to amnesty everything. Why didn't you open the files, see who, what, how and who he works for? Only we Socialists supported the SPO proposal three years ago to pass the law on opening files, and fellow Omerovic. Only the other day on the board was our MP, Ivica Dacic, who suggested it, and he didn't accept it most of the time. We have nothing to be afraid of, but we will not stand by and suffer some accusations and some stories you've already told and you've already ruled everything out. Well, he can't. You know how, in a year's time, not now, the story of 2000 and 2001 is going to be completely different than it is now, because it's still measuring forces, it's still blaming each other. Around, they measure how who, just so they don't mind getting a point amongst the citizens. When the whole story opens, we'll see who it is, how and in what way it made this Serbia sick.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13868	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13869	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Mr. Rajcic, who caused this controversy, has now apologized to me, so I would no longer do these things. He says, "It's not exactly what I said, but it sounds nice." I didn't mean it, and I don't want to do it. Anyone can appreciate and value what someone says about this pay phone. Mr. Obradovic, I don't know why you have so much to do with the character and work of Radet Markovic. Mr. Ivan Andric mentioned him only as someone who was in a delegation who visited Flor Brovin in CZ. Of course, without the consent and consent of the investigative judge. There were some advisers from then-President SRJ and Mr. Markovic. For the sake of truth, Mr. Micunovic was also present here, as I think, with the circumstances, I was one of the people who participated in all of this, all the people who were in the DOS presidency, Mr. Kostunica, and I think that this is where our esteemed colleague Meho Omerovic, some of these meetings, have been demanding persistently, for days, insisting that Radomir Markovic and Nebojsa Pavkovic were being replaced, not engaging in what they did or did, for the simple reason that they were the symbols of one regime and one time that caused so much evil to the citizens of this country. It's a waste of The day the government was formed, Radomir Markovic sent a letter: "In line with the promise and agreement I gave to the president of the SRJ, I am resigning as head of the Resora DB." That's true. What's that resistor? What his death squadrons did in Serbia, that's another thing. So, the truth is, they were all for it, and Mr. Velimir Ilic, who was a member of the DOS presidency. And he, like everyone else, was for the shift of Radomir Markovic. That's true. Here, Mr. Micunović confirms it. One more thing, Mr. Beard. You mention opening the file. Even before the SPO, the DHSS, our parliamentary group, submitted a bill on opening the file, but what is worth when, between October 5th and the formation of the government, at the Institute of Security in Banjaca, just under the auspices of Radet Markovic, a complete archive was burned and all possible files, and thus, indirectly, hidden many evidence and prevented from warning certain things that happened afterwards. Just one more sentence, while we're talking about it, they're arresting the reservers in Kursumlia, bringing them in and arresting them, because they're looking for their rights. Let's talk about the present and the future. They do Markovic and his services, and his squadrons of death, it's an ugly past.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13870	Let me remind you that today is a budget debate! I'm setting a break. Resume session is at 1400 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon session. The word has been made by the People's MP Borka Vukic. There's a minister here in a minute, Borka, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13872	Here, I'm saying I'm complaining that ladies of the Parliament today have no attention at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13873	I'm sorry, Borka. Here's the minister. So here we go, Mr. Minister, there's a word Mrs. Borka Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13874	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Few MPs, my fellow Members, I am sorry to have few of you. I'm talking about one question that would interest you all. I'm sorry that I always have a chance to hear from all of you, and here you have not devoted a bit to me, as I dedicate myself to you. No problem. The SPS and its parliamentary club, as he would like to do so, discussed in detail the government's Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget as a basic financial document that practically redistributes the country's national income. The participation of the 23.7% budget, or something more now, in the social product in 2006, speaks about the importance of this issue to the National Assembly and its bodies. It is good that MPs are at the same time available today with a report by the National Bank of Serbia on the state of the country's banking and overall financial system for the previous year. There's a line in the display and a lot of data, which, in a certain way, paints things in our financial system. Also useful is information on the movement of more important monetary aggregates in January-September 2007, which was discussed by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in late November. They were lucky to have both the governor and several ministers, so they had the opportunity to be heard more by the government than by us. So we have every opportunity to connect these three professional and important materials, as well as the recently published Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Financial Policy for 2008, with the 2009 and 2010 projection. All this is for our real analysis of the economic and financial, social and other positions of Serbia, well. So far, we have no final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, and they have not yet been discussed in the Serbian Assembly because their audit is awaiting. As you know, for the establishment of the State Auditing Institution, it has been waiting almost two years, and unfortunately it has not yet come to life, there is only a draft budget of this institution. To move on to some important facts presented in the draft budget and report by the National Bank of Serbia. I would first point out that the National Bank of Serbia's report lacks the main segments of the financial sector: the state of finance in the National Bank, the state of bankruptcy procedures, including the state of the Agency for Rehabilitation and bankruptcy, and in particular the bankruptcy process of our four development banks. Here's my luck, and the promise Mr. Djelic made, our finance minister also, that I found a written answer to my question about this issue in the morning. About that, I could be a lot more specific than I was prepared to be. The remarks on the finance minister's response to the parliamentary question are quite large. I'm not happy with the answer. There are too many procedures, various explanations and the introduction of legal and other rules that are known and published, and there are no -- financial data, which was the essence of my question. But, however, what few figures, except it shows that there are much more secrets than I thought, indicate that all four development banks - Investbank, Beobank, South Bank and Belgrade Bank - are involved in this, in the next position. I'd say that, too. It is indicated that all these four banks themselves were positive and were able to carry out their obligations with their claims and assets. I'll just give you a few examples. At the collection of claims from bank debtors, it is said that up to now about 11 billion dinars have been charged, I underline that, however, two more key data are not given, and that -- how many total claims and how many states have fired the debt according to these claims, which the banks themselves could do. We're going to ask this again, as part of the question, when the time comes, to answer us. Another big deal. In the sale of bank assets, the figure is only on the basis of the lease of a business space of 1.8 billion dinars, suggesting that the assets of banks are huge, and the fact that from now on the assets of the bank have reached another 6.12 billion dinars, which totals about 19 billion dinars. The following essential facts are that the first payment order of banks in bankruptcy is paid and, as far as I can see, on page three, from the collection of claims from banks, not from the state register, in the amount that allowed the banks themselves to do so. The state only temporarily jumped in from the budget, but the first one was charged, which the banks themselves could do. The savings of citizens and payments have been settled almost at the level of recognised claims or that there has been enough, or enough money to pay for all of this. The savings alone amount to 132.9 billion dinars, which means about 10.5 billion euros. Here's all this shows that all these banks weren't supposed to go bankrupt, they were supposed to go into recovery or consolidation. The Belgrade Bank even had from the Agency for Rehabilitation and Bank an approval and a deadline of about 60 days to do so. The report modestly mentions in one place that the Agency for Rehabilitation and Banks has been authorised to manage the funds, which represent the sources of these four banks that are unwarranted in bankruptcy. It is also mentioned that these funds are being re-determined, which is perfectly normal, in banks only with state capital. I'm not sure that, for example, Raiffeisen Bank, which has a very large share of those funds, is often another one, the Sosite General, that it's a state bank. It is not appropriate at the end of this response to explain this to the MP and to the ex-banker that the public of the bankruptcy proceedings is highlighted in a way that other notices are highlighted on the commercial court’s advertising board. The real demand of the public, including mine, and even more shareholders, to say those seven thousand to eight thousand unemployed, who thank God now are already employed because the foreign banks that have come to us have accepted our banking personnel, here after seven years, and even more important places because they are certainly worth it, therefore we need complete, quite accurate information about all the elements of bankruptcy, not just those who are being extorted by this question. Also, the introduction of the National Bank of Serbia's report states that all segments of the financial market have done positive business and have growth, with a profit of 16.5 billion dinars dramatically high, even 127% higher than in 2005. If this is added to the report that banks managed 55 of Serbia's gross social product at the end of 2006, then their negative impact on the development of the country's economic-financial market is clear. When it comes to the sources of bank funds, it falls into the eyes that banks, mostly foreign, have only 18.5 own funds with us, and even 81.5 make up our funds entrusted to these banks (page 11 of the report). So foreign banks credit us with our assets and it's under very unfavourable conditions, it's known to everyone. The structure of the plasma is strikingly showing bad sides, not only monetary but also overall economic policies. In the sector, credits are far less than the population's population with a tendency to grow largely in debt. In the report, page 17 again, it appears that population placements grew 4.5 times faster than plasma in the economy. According to the state at the end of September 2007, dinar placements amounted to over 694 billion dinars, which increased by 177 billion dinars or over 34% compared to the end of December 2006. Business credits and this time they increased by 30% and over 40% of the population's loans. Extremely high credit growth was achieved during July and August, when loans were raised by about 50 billion dinars, of which over 20 billion were placed, and of the population about 30 billion dinars. In total approved loans during 2007, cash loans had the highest participation, over 40% and recorded continued growth. By observing dinar banks over a long period of time, these loans are seen to record permanent growth at relatively high rates. Compared to 2003 growth, loans to businesses have increased by only three and a half times, and loans to the population by nine and a half times. The high growth of dinar placements was achieved particularly in 2004 and 2005 and this economy increased by 45 and loans to the population by 125%. This should take into account the low starting base or credit situation in the previous period. Although measures by the National Bank have been taken, they have not contributed to the dispute of the growth of loans granted to the population and there has been no more significant direction of credit towards the economy. Any serious and responsible person would request an analysis of not only the reasons, but also an analysis of possible measures to ensure that economic policy and better credit for the economy, instead of lending to the population, conditions for the economy to get more favourable loans. In this way, in the context of improving the economic stability of labour, development and increased purchasing power, the population would be less in debt and freed from the credit noose around the neck. Taking more expensive loans with foreign exchange clauses and variable interest certainly puts pressure on increasing imports, the payment deficit, raising inflation, slowing down economic development, and other negative consequences. Also, it is worth thinking about what would have been the benefit if domestic rather than foreign banks had achieved high profits and that all that profit, measured hundreds of millions of euros, would be in the role of the country's development. Just imagine how much more affordable the loans would be and what the overall benefit for our country's development would be. Has anyone ever wondered what the foreign banks have brought new? The skilled bankers from the west were damed by our domestic banks, and by shutting them down, it's like the country's exactly served banking market. They're allowed a real paradise for high profits. Especially when it comes to the transfer of stamps to the euro. They were served the banking chamber, the space and, of course, the great support of the government, which raced to bring down everything that was worth it as soon as possible. This kind of behavior should be described by the authorities as a miracle for Genis. I'm going back to the text of the National Bank of Serbia report. Many parts could be questioned or serious questions could be raised about our overall monetary policy, especially the behaviour of our central monetary institution. Domestic monetary authorities are under-respectful, perhaps unprofessional, and perhaps there are other reasons. The reason is certainly not for the benefit of the state and politics, nor for the benefit of our country. In no country, which holds to its national wealth and seriousness, such access to monetary policy would be tolerated. Here it is considered normal and we are also hearing about how, as far as this sector is concerned, we have already entered the European Union, in this opening part of the report, as well as the praises of the recipients of various prizes on the results achieved, whose reach on their hunches is felt by every citizen and our economy. The current monetary authority’s forecasts are poor with regard to the reduction of interest rates, i.e. the behaviour of foreign banks in this case, as the dominant role of foreign banks is in the banking system. It can be said that there is no competition among banks, but rather a silent agreement by the largest foreign banks, not to reduce interest rates. Any increase in the mandatory reserve by the National Bank of Serbia as a single monetary instrument is actually being transferred to the users of the loan. It is a vicious circle that leaves the most difficult consequences for both citizens, users, and already burdened economy, primarily large tax obligations. The budget is planned at 654 billion dinars on the divisive side of expenditure, with a total of 639.6 billion dinars or 14.8 billion dinars expected on the side of the revenue than is spent. In addition, it is planned to issue guarantees of 66 billion dinars in 2008, then 57.9. Whether the total expenditure of Serbia's 2008 budget is only what 654.4 billion are shown, and there is no coverage of revenues or, in fact, the intervention in the social product is much higher, given that these additional burdens are based on the budget because of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, which totals as much as 800 billion dinars. In view of the debt situation created on 13 September 2007, it is 713.2 billion dinars, according to page 6. The draft budget law, then the question can be rightly asked how much is the burden of the country's economy and population to make this kind of consumption happen? After professional and relevant consultations were carried out by our team, as well as following numerous remarks received directly from the field, and especially from farmers, and based on data on the amount of the planned funds, the SPS considers that the Agrarian budget in 2008 has been devalued. It is indisputable that for the second year in a row this budget is getting smaller and smaller. In a situation where the volume of agricultural production of all cultures, as well as all kinds of livestock, is lower than the average of 1986/1990. In the year, the government's intention to play an extremely symbolic role in terms of agrarians is incomprehensible. That is why we propose, in our amendments, to balance significant amounts in the budget, with a view to reducing the planned amount of those categories. economic classifications based not on the law but on the authority of resolution ministers. I believe that this reduction of funds is legally possible and economically justified, because the agrar is our only branch that is achieving a foreign surplus in this year and whose participation in the overall structure of the social product is not negligible, and we stick to the message of our finance minister, of course, that everything that can be done is within the planned divisions. In that sense, all our amendments have been directed, and we believe that we will come across your support, because agriculture, at least, I have the moral right to say, because this year since I've been an MP and I've been within the Youth Farmers Fund a lot of miles, you won't believe me, 18,000 kilometers, in the villages, and in the mountains, and in Vojvodina. I must tell you, the village is the most endangered. As a banker, I think there is still a reserve, not only for these ten billion dinars, as far as we propose to increase the budget for agrarian, but also significantly more than that, which in the budget has items that are not precisely defined in terms of consumption, but you have left the Serbian Government with special programmes for the use of the distribution of these funds, which is a kind of precedent and which reduces the budgetary discipline and transparency of public finances in which the government's representatives often swear. Having all the facts and arguments in mind, honourable MPs, I urge you to make our contribution to support this branch only in the context of the planned divisions, as the minister said in his message. If the adoption and realisation of the strategic development of agriculture, our national priority, is now missing, it will not be possible to strengthen the 2008 budget, nor the overall social progress in the country, nor the growth of its citizens' standards, which means less opportunities for European and global integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13875	I would like to thank the People's MP, Mrs. Borka Vukic. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Slobodan Maras, and let MP Zdravko Topalovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13876	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, during the assembly session's break, there was a big scandal, and it was a scandal caused by the president of the Assembly, Mr. Oliver Dulic. It's not the first time he's caused scandals, but this scandal happened the first time in the assembly. So, the LDP announced yesterday or the day before yesterday that a press conference was to be held in the press room. On that occasion, we wanted to get to know the public that more than 100,000 signatures were collected during the citizens' initiative to examine abuses, both political and financial, or the creation of Delta's monopoly. Mr. Dulic did something that was really precedentd, he banned the holding of a press conference for reasons I'm about to show you. So, in this assembly it is allowed to share pamphlets and lenses that the ruling press coalition and divides against one media house, but therefore it is not possible to spread one of these on which it says "Belgrade, not Delta, Serbia rather than Delta City, life is law", because it says the Liberal Democratic Party. We have entered this congregation under that name. So it was forbidden to print party features. What's the point? The point is that everything can be examined here, but it cannot be examined by the Delta Company and their business, namely their commitment to power currently in this country and the one that was before that, from 2004 to 2007. That's the problem. Mr. Dulic, he better stop writing letters to our party president, a secret, in which he humbly apologizes for not responding when he needs to react. Mr. Dulic better apply the Rules of Procedure of this assembly. He really showed that the worst president of the assembly he ever worked here was. It shows every day that it makes a difference between MP groups. That's why we asked for it today and yesterday we were looking for it, and again we're asking for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, to come here and answer some questions. On this occasion, I would just like to thank all the media who, despite the threat by Mr. Dulic, that is to say the ban on coming to our house on the fifth floor, because we had to keep the press in the hallway, so, in addition to the ban of the President of the Assembly, we held the press on the fifth floor. He was defending the media. On this occasion, I would like to thank all the media houses that came up and attended our press, where we handed over 40,000 signatures that were neatly seduced on the forms the Assembly gave. Yes, sir, more than 100,000 were collected, 40,000 in three days we collected on the formulas we received from this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13877	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. National MP Zdravko Topalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13878	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens, the proposal for this budget provides for the 2008 budget to be 10% higher than the 2007 budget, with deficits, i.e. A deficit of 14.8 billion dinars. This means that in 2008, the state will spend more than it will earn. The government predicted that the gross social product would be higher by 6.5% compared to the previous year, but for the salaries of budget users, you predicted 16% increase, while reducing the total public spending by only 1%, not a full 1%. The budget is too large for the level of gross social product we have, which will create new responsibilities, and there is no reduction in public spending. The worst part is that you intend to secure the financing of the budget deficit and the expenditure of the business debt from privatisation income and credit. The budget is neither affirmative nor developmental, and the privatisation funds instead of investing in profitable production activities and the creation of new jobs, which in the coming years would lead to macroeconomic stability, you dedicated privatisation funds to public spending, as well as the return of unfavourable loans, which you took in previous years, more specifically since 2001, since you were in power, so you did not know to use them or use them to fill private pockets. Public debt, for the country of current economic power, unfortunately, I have to say impotence, is frightening - 9,044.133.797 euros, and with the duties of natural persons i.e. The citizens of Serbia, based on loans from business banks, totals 14 billion euros. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a number of amendments wishing to improve something in such a badly designed and done budget. In the course of strikes by educational, judicial and other workers, small salaries in Serbia's army, as well as many other employees in Serbia, you spend the taxpayers' money uncontrollably. Here are some concrete examples. The National Council for Co-operation Office with the International Criminal Warrant Tribunal responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991, amounting to 53 million 404 thousand dinars. It's a rogue name and office, and it's a hell of a lot of resources to work that office. War crimes prosecutor's office, 86 million 940 thousand dinars. Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, 199 million 386 thousand dinars, and no effect on the agency's work. Other agencies serve as an uncontrollable and unwarranted grant of taxpayers' funds in order for the ruling coalition, high wages and other fees to satisfy its fighters of the petoctobar coup. An even more drastic example is the withdrawal from the budget for the press co-operation office, which belongs to 76 million 152 thousand dinars, with only one man, Dragan Gilas, the creator of the media darkness in Serbia. There are even more bad examples in this budget of spending taxpayers' money, such as the EU's 78m 947 000 dinars office, and as things stand, the office can exist for the next 20 to 30 years until Serbia enters the EU, according to you. You must also use money to bribe third-rate EU officials who make small concessions. You stated in your report that some of the assumptions that you stated are necessary to achieve the projection of macroeconomic indicators in 2008. Theoretically, they are good, but in practice you certainly don't realize it and so far none of it has been achieved. Solid fiscal and monetary policy. You know we've had a lot of controversy here about the artificial course of dinars, which even some colleagues from the position have been lenient about. Strengthening the private sector that will create new investments, exports and new jobs. What are you talking about? You pushed us into CEFTU, you pushed us into failure, you talk here about promotion of exports, and as far as strengthening the private sector, Serbia is a country of monopolies. It is simply impossible in this way to develop a private sector. Instead of being a role model for you, Greece and Portugal, who have entered the UN with petty property, you are here forsaking obviously the capital of multinational companies. So this doesn't stand. Strengthening financial discipline with this tax administration, the National Bank, is impossible to do, with one trom and a highly inefficient tax administration, and you protected the officials of those services as polar bears. They just don't respond to anyone for their mistakes. For this reason, the budget of the Republic of Serbia was not based, as you say, on the results achieved in January-August 2007. It is not true that these favourable macroeconomic movements, such as high growth in economic activity, exports and profits, have been achieved in this period. The truth is that imports have grown enormously, and profits have increased nominally, but not realistically, and the fact is that poverty and misery are increasing in Serbia. You pushed us into CEFTU, and Slovenia and Croatia have 40% of the capital of business entities in Serbia. Mr. Minister, read carefully and consider amendments to the SRS. The money you were about to spend on the arrest of The Hague indictees, the war crimes prosecution, the creation of an even denser media darkness, point to some smarter sides, especially the country's security system, the moment they want to steal some of our territory. Finally, I urge you once again to stop working with Milosavljevic, Dinkic, Jelasic, Djelic and other financial experts, with the financial and economic demolation of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13879	National MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13880	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, today is an extremely important document on the 2008 income and expenditure plan on the agenda. What is very important for the G17 parliamentary group plus that the proposed amount of budget intended for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Youth and Sports is sufficient to implement the basic objectives for which the party G17 plus and advocated in the pre-election campaign, which is to implement incentive employment measures and reduction of unemployment, increase export growth, development of tourism and regional development, improve the health system, provide jobs for scientific when we return our experts from abroad and create and implement a national strategy for young people. I would refer to one aspect of the budget allocated to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, because we believe that this draft budget provides sufficient resources to implement several of the most important measures, which are the first, which I think is perhaps the most important, continuation of the loan for mortgage-free beginners. These are loans for five years, with a start of one year and an annual interest rate of 1%, and the guarantee is a manual stock, i.e. a mortgage on equipment purchased by this loan. These loans are intended for business beginners and those who cannot provide guarantees for the loan, and they provided a new 5,300 jobs in 2007. A total of 1,507 loan requests have been approved and billions and 96 million dinars have been allocated for these purposes from this year's budget. As far as the start-ap credit structure itself is concerned, they are largely approved for service and service activities, for the wood and meditary manufacturing industry, but there were also loans that were approved to open nursing homes and playgrounds for children. The 2008 budget planned funds of two billion and 200 million dinars for start-up loans for beginners through the Development Fund, which represents an increase of 10% compared to this year. One of the main promises of the G17 plus party in the campaign was that we would give more chances to young people and we promised mortgage-free loans, and for the first time in Serbia the realisation of these loans began, and it is very important that the budget for next year is being planned and continued with the realisation of these loans. Of course, that is not enough, for young people to provide far more favourable conditions in other fields. The second, also important measure, is to encourage direct greenfield investments, i.e. what has already existed in the last two years. For anyone who builds a factory and employs 50 or more workers, the subsidy programme continues from 2,000 to 10,000 euros per new employee. During this year, four cycles were conducted under the programme of investors' incentives, conducted by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development with the Foreign Investment and Promotion Agency (SIEPA), the grants received 21 foreign and 17 domestic companies, and a total of 22.8m euros. What is most important is that these companies invested over 290m euros and created 10,753 new jobs, and we all know that Serbia currently has the biggest problem of unemployment. Currently, the fifth cycle of investor incentives is under way. The 2008 budget planned funds for these purposes. The third is the continuation of active employment measures through the National Employment Service, which include self-employment programmes, severance to work and many other programmes. What is important is that the 2008 budget also plans subsidies for unemployed people who start their own business. The preliminary additions for 2007, i.e. this year, show that the unemployment rate is a reduction. All of this leads to a final goal, which is that unemployment is halved to make the situation in the field completely different at the end of the transition than it is now. So, in addition to employment and the need for new jobs in the financial, real estate, consulting, construction and traffic sector, while poor growth in education, health, agriculture, mining and energy is. The 2008 republican budget will set aside three billion dinars for active employment measures, out of which 1.9 billion dinars are planned to encourage, or develop, entrepreneurship. In this way, it is planned to create 17,000 new jobs, an extremely significant figure, of which 5,000 through self-employment, and 12,000 through the subsidies used by employers. What is also extremely important is that the proposed budget continues with a programme to encourage employment and revive production, which was approved in 2005 for the town of Kragujevac and the municipality of Bor and Vranje. Companies in the town of Kragujevac have withdrawn significant funds from the Development Fund over the previous years, creating conditions to employ more new workers. The G17 Plus party believes the biggest problem currently in Serbia, which may be more exposed to Kragujevac than elsewhere, is unemployment. And we're sure that through all this we can realize our first pre-election promise, which is that unemployment is halved over the next five years. The fact is that only small and medium-sized enterprises can reduce unemployment, which is one of the biggest problems of our economy. Currently, around 95,000 companies are registered in Serbia, including 99% small and medium-sized enterprises, while at the same time registered about 200,000 enterprises. What is the significance of this data? Because the small and medium-sized enterprises sector generates 65% of total turnover, employs about 60% of the working population and generates more than 50% of the gross social product. The average number of employees in Serbia's SMEs sector is 3, in the EU 5 and in the United States 12. What is important is that during 2007, 12,000 new small and medium-sized enterprises and over 60,000 enterprises were registered, and that the budget for the coming year continued to plan the implementation of the loan through the Development Fund for the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises and their promotion. The last item that is not less important is that we must continue to take care of balanced regional development, because the current relationship between the municipality that is most developed and the one that is least developed is 1:15 and the EU average is 1:5. In the campaign, we proposed to establish a sector for regional development in the government of the Republic of Serbia and it was realised. From 2000 to today, there was no such sector. Now, not only is the sector formed, but the regional development law ends. Also, significant funds in this year's budget and in next year's budget are planned precisely for this balanced regional development, i.e. for infrastructure investment projects in less developed or underdeveloped areas. The 2008 budget plans two billion dinars to encourage and develop enterprises and entrepreneurship in underdeveloped municipalities, approving loans through the Development Fund, which represents an increase of around 30% compared to this year's budget. Also in the budget for next year, funding was planned for the recruitment of experts who would help local self-government in these underdeveloped areas to draw up plans and monitor the implementation of projects. The main goal of the G17 plus party is, as I said, that unemployment is halved over the next five years. There is currently a number of activities being undertaken, Greenfield projects are being done, new factories are opening up, industrial zones are ending and funds are increasing for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It also invests much more in undeveloped areas, because if we increase employment in Serbia and if Serbian citizens are satisfied with their jobs, our goal is achieved. Without achieving that goal, we will not be able to solve a major socio-economic problem, which is that each individual is satisfied with his life. Finally, the G17 Plus party believes the proposed budget is good and needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13881	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic. The word has the People's Messenger, Miss Elvira Kovac, and let the People's Messenger Dejan Rajcic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13882	I'd like to say, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, but since the minister isn't in the O.R., I can't. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very difficult that for this short time as long as my parliamentary group is left, I am talking about the draft budget for next year and saying everything I wanted to say, so I would like to point out right away that SVM MPs will not support this proposal in this form. The 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia is based on the achieved macroeconomic and fiscal results and estimated achievements of the current year, as well as on macroeconomic projections and economic policy targets for next year. Which is very interesting, in the explanation provided by the government, it says that in the first half of 2007 favourable macroeconomic movements, high growth in economic activity, exports, imports and profits were achieved in Serbia. I wonder if we all live in the same country, because this isn't entirely true and of course this doesn't apply to all the profits. The factual situation in our country is from the planned higher, accelerated inflation and a very high external trade deficit, caused by the growth of domestic demand above the level of economic activity, due to the growth of domestic and foreign loans. So the draft budget before us is first inflatable, not developed, or social and certainly very relative. An inflation rate of 8.5% versus projected 6. I think respected citizens are the ones who actually experienced, the ones who know best how much product prices have actually changed, life-saving foods. The saddest thing is that further increases in inflation rates will affect very high public consumption, rapid change of course and lack of competition in production, or the impact of monopoly on price growth. The macroeconomic policy in 2008 should focus on maintaining macroeconomic balance, stability, creating a favourable environment for investment activities, which would ultimately contribute to achieving long-term sustainable high growth rates. On these grounds, it would finally reduce very high unemployment and improve the standard of living for the population. Therefore, growth in economic activity should be based on the creation of a stimulating business environment, on high investment growth, on increasing the efficiency of the economy. It is obvious, however, that with the privatisation of the investment ending, it will not continue to grow, and on the other hand, as I mentioned, it continues to plan very high public spending, which will result in a current balance of payments deficit. As we know, the deficit represents a key macroeconomic balance, resulting in a faster increase in imports than exports. The draft budget that's ahead of us and the figures we've seen are actually very relative. One of the biggest shortcomings is that no donations, loans, borrowings are seen, as well as projects from the National Investment Plan. By the way, we don't have an accurate insight into how much resources individual budget users have. The most sensitive and complex issue of the transition of the Republic of Serbia is building a modern structure of the market and market institutions. In order to raise the rate of economic growth and population standards, Serbia must create favourable conditions for continued, permanent and accelerated export growth. Thus, increasing revenues from exports is the first condition of serviceing a very high public debt and providing funds for financing imports and equipment itself, as one of the basic conditions for economic development. All in all, the situation is devastating. The Republic of Serbia achieved a very high external trade deficit in the previous year, unemployment remained at a very high level and even increased public spending, and this planned budget essentially changes nothing on these issues. The SVM will therefore not support the draft budget in this form for several reasons. I would stress only a few of them, which are that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not fulfilled the pre-election promises, that European integration has become tertiary, that there is no plan to support the standard of living of people living from agriculture, there is no plan to improve the conditions of life in rural areas, that the situation of Vojvodina is very bad. We heard more than once yesterday that unfortunately, no funds from the republican budget are coming into the AP Vojvodina budget, regardless of the 7% that stand in the Constitution. I would point out here, as far as the Vojvodina Agricultural Development Fund itself is concerned, another 41 million dinars are expected this year. They would mainly invest in a irrigation system due to recovery and many of the problems that have arisen in the midst of extreme drought. Not a single penny of this 41 million didn't make it to the Fund. As the biggest problem, we think that simply, the government forgot that economic development requires a stable political situation in the country. Yesterday, Mr. Djelic, I'm very sorry he's not in the O.R. right now, talked about the Vojvodina situation and said something, like "Bravo Vojvodina". I don't think the Dukes need "bravo" but their money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13883	The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13884	Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll say a few sentences on behalf of the DSS-NS-Dr. Vojislav Kostunica. Right at the beginning, to say that our parliamentary group will support and vote to put forward a draft budget, but at the same time it does not mean that we do not have any objections and objections to its concept, its composition and its structure. This budget, as we know, came from the projections of the macroeconomic policy led by the Serbian government in this country. These are the constant parameters and that's the frame that's been translated into this document that I'm holding right now. What's called the resource allocation and the redistribution of the funds given by this proposal represents some kind of variable that could certainly have been other than that. It's not wrong and it's not wrong, from the aspect of the profession, which is done, but this composition is certainly the product of political vision of all the factors that make up the government of Serbia and represents the realisation of the policy that the ministers want, in the resolutions that belonged to them, to coalition agreements, to realize and to realize. In addition to what I said, if this were to a good extent a product and a political agreement and a consensus among coalition partners, I would say a few things that I could, I could say freely and criticise. In my opinion, large public spending is present in certain ministries and a high trend in hiring new workers in the following year in the resolutions of individual ministries. In fact, if we are in the 21st century to implement the electronic way of doing business and to introduce E-Government into all the structures of the state administration, both state and local self-government, I cannot help but agree with the intensification that this year provides for a large number of employees, mostly in the directorial, passive working staff, who should, as was once called, have done some of the jobs that were once said to the people's dictionaries. A very small number of professional staff, high school staff, who in the following year, the year in which this budget would be realised, would find their jobs, while at the same time increasing the bureaucratic apparatus, which is certainly not the intensity and intention that requires us and the international community, in order to establish a more efficient and highly cheaper state and state administration. I would refer to the distribution or, rather, the redistribution of funds related to the ministries, so I would make a comparison between some in relation to the Ministry of Transport, where, let's say, it is foreseen in section 17 that the Ministry of Infrastructure has a subsidy to public non-financial enterprises, in this case, in particular 10.6 billion to the Serbian Railways, where, as an apportionation to classification 463, 400 million for transfer funds to other levels of government in the Republic. Namely, what does that mean? The needs that this country has in terms of infrastructure of all kinds, and we don't only think about road infrastructure, it's only one segment, if you go a little lower than the Potok Bubanj, you'll see that the situation in Serbia is more complex, and more complex and demanding in terms of solving all kinds of problems, and also infrastructure issues, as basic issues, but what it is is the situation in the city of Belgrade itself, although the periphery of the city of Belgrade, in my view and in my view, also requires intervention in this regard and respect. I mentioned that 400 million dinars are foreseen for the transfer, while respecting all the need to accelerate the development and growth of businesses, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, through various programmes and projects defined and classified in several groups, whether as a help in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in underdeveloped areas, in devasted areas or as a branch professional symbiosis of enterprises in certain economic activities, I see that Minister Dinkic has chosen to separate the caterers, I do not know how much it stands, it seems to me 1.2 billion as a subsidy to accelerate the development of this branch of the economy. I am not diminishing the importance of this branch, especially if we know that the strategic definitions of economic development in this country are traffic, agriculture and tourism. These are our comparative advantages that we have and that we can put on the pedestal of what we want and what we should promote and develop. But at the same time, we have to bear in mind that hospitality is an economic branch that earns income and profit and can also earn a good profit. Now, to intervene with tax money, with no small funds of 1.2 billion, to promote hospitality, with the same presence, I think about 40 business banks in the Serbian state market, I think it is a failure and I think it is a political concept that Mr Dinkic and his party want to achieve and carry out a proper influence in this regard. I wouldn't mind, but I think it's completely unrealistic that the relationship between these two types of investment should be 1:3 in favour of hospitality, rather than in favour of the infrastructure of all kinds, whether it's energy infrastructure, whether it's a gas network, whether it's roads, traffic, waterways, air traffic, etc. However, I think the failure in seeing or the relationship of power or violence in the fight of those who fought to find their appraisals in the greatest extent possible in this document that has come before us as a proposal. I think that we should also look at the government next year as soon as possible and the question seems to me that Mr Belic already mentioned in the morning, not to remind again, the question of re-registering vehicles that are wearing Montenegrin plates, or cities that are now located in a separate, special, independent state of Montenegro, which our citizens once bought when we were one state. The tax on the reregistering of these vehicles and obtaining Serbian plates in an acceptable amount for citizens of several hundred euros is certainly a significant figure and I propose that the use of unsecured crossing points, places where road and rail routes are crossed at the same level, in order to prevent them, we will not talk about material damages in the form of hawari and hawari vehicles, but the cost of losing human lives is certainly immeasurable. With investment in spring crossings, where we need to know that the price of a single crossing is about 100 to 120 000 euros and that is beyond necessary and necessary, and I think that these funds could be used here as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. It has been said that the strategy and the adoption of appropriate traffic development plans will be done in the following year. Action plans, or strategy to date, have not been formally adopted, but we all know what strategic concepts and the direction of traffic development in this country are. It certainly represents a road and rail corridor E10, as well as a water corridor 7 and I think that a more intensive investment in the area of traffic and in a few centres, which would serve as a commodity-transport and freight centres, where combined rail, road and river traffic could certainly be paid to the entire economy of this country, not only those involved in this business. I would not take up more time, the DSS and NS MPs will vote for this draft budget, but with a simultaneous application from the finance minister that, and I also have respect and understanding, took over the role and function of half this year, and the previous requests of budgetary direct and indirect beneficiaries for participation in the budget, were certainly not taken into account to the same extent when conciseing this draft budget. But during the next calendar year, the budget year, all requirements that are realistic and in accordance with the budget law, which will arrive, ministers, at your place, in time look at them, analyse them in time and install them in time for the next year 2009. Another request that I made at the Committee session, that is, the Parliament Club. Transfer funds for local self-government, which is your director for the Treasury, Mrs. Ruzica, and I forgot my last name, I promised to accept for the city of Nis, because we are introducing a new traffic management, which so far has not existed in the city for all these 50 years, for the first time formed, and there are no experts in this profile in the city itself, so we need to hire new traffic engineers. I ask you to approve some seven million dinars, so that we can form this administration and in a permanent way resolve the issue of public urban transport in the City of Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13885	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Vesna Pesic, and let the MP Dragan Vujadinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13886	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I didn't come out to scold you, just to let you know, but to remind you a little bit, because it seems to me like we had a very similar discussion six months ago, that some of the similar topics that we talked about, that they were coming back again, and that this trend that you inherited from 2006, you explained in 2007, that you had to continue as some acquired rights in 2007, and now what was in 2007 must continue in 2008. I'd start off with two parallels and ask a question, what was good in 2007, what can we think that in some economic movements was positive, and what was what was worrying? Let me start with these good things first. Surely in 2007, it was good that growth was relatively good, seven percent, and as far as I can see, correct me if I'm wrong, for 2008, there's not even this prediction that growth will be seven percent but will be six percent, that it will be reduced compared to this year. That would be some good news, plus to add that we read very often in the paper that it was a good indicator of a big increase in exports, somewhere between 28 and 29 percent. These are some of the good trends that took place in 2007. However, if we ask the question now what was wrong and what are the tendencies that were worrying in 2007, and I say we talked about it a little bit six months ago. This is one pre-named and already repeatedly mentioned, the large expansion of state spending, we especially stress the state, and I will look at this specifically, and the enormous increase in wages, which was 32% in the state sector for this year. There's something I could ask as a question, you promised there'd be a freeze this year. I think you gave one deadline, whether it was June or July, I don't know when you said it was gonna be freezing, and then you said it was gonna be freezing somewhere in November. However, this freezing in the expansion of platinum occurs, so that when 32 percent of public sector wages rise on this basis, the trend continues, and then, as far as I can see, according to your statements and other our experts, this is now reflected next year, that wage growth will be 16%. I think this kind of salary growth should affect inflation. It would be very difficult to imagine that some percentage of inflation will not increase and that it may come to the fact that it will cross a magical single digit, and we are already close to 10 percent, that it is likely to reflect inflation. Then it is clear that fiscal and monetary policies are not in agreement, that, on the one hand, fiscal policy is wasteful, and in other words state spending is growing, and on the other hand, we have relied entirely on macroeconomic stability being maintained exclusively through monetary policy. I'd like to hear from you, since I'm not an economist, which are the negative consequences. Last time we talked about the fact that, if we rely on macroeconomic stability, inflation and the prevention of inflation to rely only on monetary policy, that there will be interest growth and that there will be very unfavourable loans, which leads me to one conclusion, which everyone here has pointed out, that this pre-named state spending must lead to a lack of investment, we are probably aware that this inflow of investment will be significantly lower. When there is no investment, literally, we can hardly expect any higher employment growth and growth in the economy. From all this, I'd just like to conclude that this, as I think, we haven't made one economic model, I'm sorry for the expression, which is going to "snap." So, let's make one model that works, but that's one budget that needs to cover some other things. Now I'd like to ask you a question, why did this happen? I think it came to this, and according to what you were talking about and when we adopted the 2007 budget, and in some ways you're saying now, I think you've been very critical and talking about, that this came about because some of the rights, in other words, your predecessor, the finance minister, has greatly increased the wages because of the election year, and it's one pure pulsism, and that's why many of the economists I believe call it an election and pre-election budget, because there was no other reason why you were now inheriting that level, so at that level you're building on this second one, and yet we are now in this election year. You say it couldn't have been different. Because both this government and the DS have accepted that it is responding to it, as the election cycle continues, now it is the president, that it suits you that this growth continues to exist, that it is not going to have sex, and it could have been going. In that context, I would like to ask one question, when we are often told that certain things, such as the budget, are conditioned by social circumstances. I heard that statement that some things are conditioned by social circumstances and it's like some kind of mystical formula that no one explains exactly what these social circumstances are. For the first time, I heard of this expression of social circumstances when Rade Bulatovic said he could not be arrested by Ratko Mladic because of social circumstances. Now that a budget like this, which is not developmental, does not increase investment, I have already hinted and said, it seems to me that the difference between social consumption and state spending should be made. What you were saying and what Mr. Vlahovic was saying yesterday, it is true that some social circumstances, I stress the word of social circumstances, really exist. There are certain items that cannot be changed. When you mention that you have to pay out of the budget in PIO, there's nothing to talk about, then there are those transfers, so there are some items as you said, at least two-thirds, about which you can't talk at all, that it goes by some automation and there's not some significant interventions, except some over-emergent solidarity with the pensioners that they're going to get 2,000 dinars, those who have 8,600 dinars, and that seemed pretty sad. In any case, I mean, under social circumstances, very often there is simply political will or populism. We can't call political will, this is what the budget looks like for populist reasons, social circumstances. So let's break it up, because when we say social circumstances, then we refer to something objective, something that's out of sorts of will, and we don't have what, like gravity, when you throw away a stone, then that stone has to fall under the law of gravity, and this syntagm of social environments hides a clear political will to sit on these populist budgets that do us one huge damage. Now I'd like to say, what actually happened, if there was any calculation, and I want to draw your attention that this budget grew very much just when it came to a wasteful and expensive state, that it grew up in that part of the highest civil service. You saw, this year we formed 25 ministries, and let me just mention that there are 15 ministries in France. So the state in a narrow sense of words, not social consumption, where we have pensions and social security, etc., but exactly the state as such, and if anyone has made any calculations to show how much it costs to major agencies, commissions, offices, advisors. There are no ministers, because each of the ministers took 10 advisers, and at one point I heard that Slobodan Samardzic needs 50 advisers for Kosovo. Did anyone calculate, not to say these media centres, not to say those travel expenses, it is their impression that we have made one false middle class here now, which has entered through a new coalition and that there has been a mass employment in the country itself, and that this is not the growth of the middle class that has emerged from market circumstances, but simply on the back of this people. I think that's what we need to discuss. How are we going to do now that we've made one such layer, not to say in the worst sense, bureaucratic layer, how are we going to get those rights and that employment in 25 ministries, with these enormous agencies, funds, etc., and what are we going to do about it? In that sense, I point out that this is an expensive country. So I'm not taking into account what has to be done, the pensioners and everything else, but this absolutely doesn't have to be, but it doesn't show any sex on this plan, but it has grown enormously during this time. They say now that the administration in Serbia is bigger than when we were together with Montenegro, that there are over 250,000 people there and that this budget should cover practically one social layer that falsely emerged from the state. Instead of going through economic middle class development, we dragged him into the country, paid him, and gave him very high incomes. In the end, I would also say that if we keep going like this, that this bureaucratic, state, party class is growing, so I have to say, party class, then I can't see how yesterday the Deputy Prime Minister could have timed those three problems he said were important, and I agree with that, unemployment, he said that the other thing is poverty and the third thing is an ongoing deficit. How does this budget refer to these three problems? He didn't explain it at all, he said -- bravo, bravo, bravo, that's all wonderful, congratulations on this, congratulations on that, so we didn't come to congratulate each other. You know what, I'd like to congratulate you the most, but when we look at our overall situation, there's no place for us to congratulate each other for anything, and that's why we're gathered here, so if you look at this growth of this layer of party-state, how it solves poverty, so of course it goes to the back of poor people, so poverty can't solve it. If we have an expensive state, no investment can come, then there's no development. Who will come with such an expensive state? Finally, the current deficit, I won't interfere with your narrow economic affairs, I can't even talk about it, because that deficit just went up, that budget didn't solve it. So from the congratulations on these three problems, I don't see how they've been solved. Let me also draw your attention, when it comes to this, which Mr. Vlahovic mentioned yesterday, that the budget is developmental and social. I think we need to have a little pace, a little bit over here, a little bit over there, we need to have one more focused development budget than this is here. What they listed in the budget as developmental, because that's what I like to hear your expert opinion, and I'll tell you from the point of view of my profession. If it is stated that it is a NIP, which will invest in certain projects, it will be invested, it is not known what, it may be known, but I do not know, that it is taken by a state body to invest, and then it is also taken by the National Employment Service for employment. You know what, we're planning an isolation development, that we want cariculously ourselves, by our own means to develop, it's practically state development. When it comes to development and investment, it means the inflow of those greenfield investments that need to come here, and not us to squeeze, sell on the one hand and transfer to state funds, and we say, on the one hand, we have ultraliberalism, and on the other hand we live in the Soviet Union, so all the states here are in charge and what they're going to give to who they are to. This contradiction that the state shares everything, on the one hand privatizes and then divides, I don't think such a concept is sustainable and this autarchical concept of isolation development I don't think it can survive. If you have time, please answer my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13887	Word sought by Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13888	I appreciate the questions, and I'd like to answer them right now, not wait a few hours, although there's one more, but I'll leave that one for later. I would concentrate on those that are now being asked, given that they are essentially opening several key issues. The first question is, freeze pay. The second question is inflation and the links between monetary and fiscal policies, and the level of public spending. Next is the election budget, and this eventually, the development and social budget. As for the freezing of wages, the situation is next, and that should be understood why, in terms of the freezing of wages, they grow in mass beyond inflation levels. It's actually that when you have one year, and that's, say, in 2007, which we're really looking at, salary growth, you can imagine that as some kind of monthly expenditure for all wages. You now have monthly expenses for January, then February, then March, etc. The moment the salary rises, then that month, if there was an increase in March, then the April salary bill is bigger than the March's, and then these high bills continue, and then there's a new growth, so it's September's bigger than the previous one. In the end, you have a December account as the biggest account in that year, if there was a salary increase, and what was. If you were to start from the assumption of freezing wages at the nominal level, that means at the December level, then the next year would be 12 times December for you. And 12 times December is much more than the sum of these months, of which January was significantly smaller than December, May was slightly smaller, September -- that is simply the mathematically transferred salary growth, which in our particular case, when it comes to the 2008 budget, is the largest part of the growth. Here, now I'm going to tell you the figures approximately. So our total salary fund in the budget is planned somewhere near 177 billion, so 176 and something. It's, like, 153 this year. So there's a difference between 20 and something. If we didn't go to an absolute single dinar of growth in 2008, so if we were to multiply December 12 times, our total account would be between 172 and 173 billion. So this difference that basically means maintaining the real level of pay, freezing wages at a real level, much less cost than this conveyed effect that we were talking about. This costs only five million, and the transfer effect is 20 million. So let me get this straight. The thing about freezing wages remained as it was said in time, with them frozen at a real level, starting with the fact that at the end of 2008, they would be six percent more than they were at the beginning of this year. When it comes to inflation and the responsibility of monetary and fiscal policy, one of the things that is about to be said here is that fiscal policy is so preconceived that only monetary policy remains to fight to maintain stability. That thesis is famous and has already been launched since this year, since the adoption of this budget, so here's to, say, a month ago, when the thesis quieted down. The point of the story is that, reportedly, fiscal policy is too loose and it creates a large space for inflation, and then monetary policy jumps there with its restrictive measures, ensuring stability. However, when you look at what happened in real life, and it is presented in concrete figures that have been available in the last month, and then it has silenced that criticism, you will see that in 2007 practically the budget was not only balanced, but also with a significant surplus in the current business. Therefore, it is not possible for a surplus budget to generate the need for a particularly active monetary policy, i.e. there must be other macroeconomic reasons. And the question is, what happens in 2008 and whether a deficit of 14.8 billion versus 650 billion or, let me say, as 0.5 percent of gross social product, can cause significant destabilization? The answer's for sure - no. Of course, there will be a need for coordination of monetary and fiscal policy, but it is very important that we stay in this facility and not break further levels that we have outlined in this budget, especially regarding the level of pay. Is this election budget electoral or not? Of course it's not electoral, because if the electorate did, we wouldn't have strikes. Imagine what an election budget it is where you do not have a single beneficiary of budgets that is not satisfied with what was given to him - I guess election budgets are such that there is satisfaction and that everyone is happy. We are going through very difficult and fortunately for now successful negotiations with a whole series of different unions, from petty to large users, with whom we solve problems and maintain this level of consumption that is given here. The election budget, be assured, would look quite different. Finally, let me also look at the question of the development component of the budget and what is the point of investing from the NIP budget, and then what is being built is being sold. Of course I totally agree with that -- that it would be unacceptable to make a shoe factory from the NIP, and then to sell it in the privatisation process. However, here the development component is not related to production activities, but to infrastructure. So we are obliged, precisely to attract those who would come here to work, whether through regular privatisation or through greenfield, we are investing in roads, in railways, etc., which is a necessary infrastructure base to keep working. Otherwise, I fully agree with the observation that investment in production capacity would be fully deplaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13889	I thank Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov appeared, and then, hopefully, the MP Dragan Vujadinović. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to exercise my right to the Rules of Procedure given to me by members of 225 and 226. At first, I would say it is very commendable that you answered the questions to the MP Vesni Pesic. But again, I'm asking the question now -- how do you selectively answer MPs' questions? Which is why you answer to some MPs immediately, and you never answer to any of them, and did you not understand yesterday when he asked the question, since you answered all the questions he had asked at the same time. To remind you, MP Marton found - that the position of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is well known, that even seven percent of the Republic of Serbia's budget belonging to the AP Vojvodina is too small, because it represents only one in six dinars earned in the AP. So, the citizens of Vojvodina, thanks to the great successes of the Democratic Party in the field of autonomy, returns only every sixth dinar they earn. Furthermore, even if we accept that fact of seven percent, the fact that you are giving this and the previous budget of the AP Vojvodina is not seven percent because you include in this figure the salaries of educational workers, projects from culture and beyond. Even if we accept all that is seven percent, you still don't transfer AP to Vojvodina seven percent because in the previous year, I apologize, in fact in this current year, the realisation of the province's budget was only 41 percent, which means that the AP Vojvodina was not transferred seven percent, but about three percent of the funds were transferred. Next, now let's see what these investments are invested in? It is the Capital Investment Fund, which plans 22 billion dinars. According to our knowledge, less than half of the planned funds have been transferred to this fund and it is mostly spent on advertising the Democratic Party, since the fund brochures come out with the pre-election slogan of the Democratic Party - For a better life in Vojvodina - of course in the colors of the Democratic Party, all accompanied by pictures of Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic. Although the fund is not the authority of the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party obviously does not understand. The budget for the development of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina for which 1.6 billion dinars have been planned, has reached 60 million dinars, representing 3% of the planned funds and I would therefore take the opportunity to ask you: how much money has been paid in the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina's budget so far, what of 22 billion has been paid into the Capital Investment Fund? What about the rest of the money, so the money that the Republic of Serbia did not pay to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina this year? In what way and when will he be paid and, if he is not paid, who will answer for the violation of the Constitution in this way? Because I will remind you that the Constitution, which you have advocated, guarantees seven percent of the Republic of Serbia's budget will belong to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13891	I thank Miss Alexandria Jerkov. The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13892	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I will speak at four points. The first point of general approximation, the second point of review of basic macroeconomic aggregates, the third point of several budgetary findings regardless of what is said and the fourth point of reference to risks and chances. The method of my presentation will be the figures in front of politics, black or pink glasses. As for general approximations, we all see that since July, the Ministry of Finance has prepared two budgets for 2007 and 2008, one memorandum and a projection of the movement of basic aggregates for 2009 and 2010. From that point on, regardless of individual objections, we can first say that indeed the Ministry of Finance has brought us into the real flow of things in the area of public finances and told us, it has made a promise of what will be done in 2009 and 2010. There's no going back. Now we know that Minister Cvetkovic said six and a half percent of two feet will be in 2009 and 2010. So we're practically introduced into mid-term planning, which may be the first time we really know where we are and where we can intervene if that doesn't happen. The second point, i.e. the first problem point - a review of macroeconomic aggregates. I'm giving one dynamic and static aspect. Our gross social product was 13.12 billion in 2001, and in 2007, it will be 30.56 billion euros. So from 1,600 per capital, per capita, we get to 4,050. The growth rate is real in current, constant prices are 5.3 and the current rate is around 19% for this period. So my assessment is favourable, but not enough. Because if the rate of growth was 7-8%, we would have practically reached the distance we were at, and we were at 40% of the gross social product level in 1989, it was 2001, and now we are at 65% of that gross social product, while for example Croatia is 105%. We need to speed up the growth rate. It takes more than 5.3 to get a practical environment. Another indicator, salaries and pensions, start of salaries and pensions of 57 euros, pensions of 46.5 euros. The ratio was 80, 1:08. The current level of pensions and salaries in 2006 - 275 euros, 146 euros in pensions, is 53%, worrying; in 2007, salaries 350 euros, pensions 186 euros, ratio 1:0.8. Ratings, salaries -- very favourable, but too high, pensions -- favourable, but disturbing. Because of this downside of 0.80%, we've reached 53%. The budget recognises and inserts 31 billion for a single pension increase of 11.5% outside of the general movement, outside of general trends, thus bringing pensions to 0.6 or 60% in relation to the average salary, which is one-time starting in January 2008. Third indicator - public debt. Here, counterpart Topalovic spoke of public debt, but public debt is one of the best macroeconomic aggregates, convincingly the best. Here, the fact - the public debt in 2001 was 13.43 billion euros and was 102% compared to the gross social product, and in 2000 was 120% of the ratio to the gross social product; today in 2007, the public debt is 9.35 billion euros, which is 30.6% compared to the gross social product. You've heard more than once that's twice the upper limit that's set under master's terms, which say 60%. This means, for example, that for example, 2010 which you can see in the Memorandum, i.e. in the projection of growth, public debt falls to 8.44 billion euros or only 20% compared to the gross social product. The grade - very, very favourable. As for borrowing public debt, what does public debt do? The minister already said. So 3.6 billion internal, in fact, debt to citizens, refers to old foreign exchange savings and a loan for the rebirth of 0.8 guarantees, and direct borrowing of 5.5 to 6 billion euros on foreign credit lines, where the state is a direct lender of money. As far as external debt is concerned, we have a different situation here. Why do we have it? Our external debt is currently around 17 billion in 2007. So the difference is 9.35 to 17 billion, the difference is almost 8 billion euros. These are the debts of legal entities, domestic legal entities directly in charge abroad. That debt is growing up. Why is it growing? It grows expressly, as well as the debt of natural persons, because legal persons are also thirsty for crafts, and natural persons are thirsty for public consumption or public spending, refrigerators, televisions and cars. That's why you're in charge. Maybe he's threatening a debt crisis. Some, individuals who were in debt, were in debt, because they may have been over-indebted, both by legal and physical persons, but the state basically has nothing to do with it. The fourth indicator - so, the assessment is very favourable. Another indicator, our short-term public debt liabilities through foreign exchange reserves, is only 10%, and in Croatia it is 60%. I repeat, short-term public debt liabilities in the numerator, we have foreign exchange reserves in the denominator, that's 10% in us, and in Croatia it's 60%, and in Bulgaria and Romania it's 70%. It's a public debt feature. So, the public debt story of the state is completely meaningless. CIP - number in front of politics, remember. The external debt is about 60%, i.e. ranges from 55 to 60% of gross social product and it can be dangerous for those who are in debt, for legal and physical persons. That's really how they were, I repeat, hungry consumption. Fourth point - exports and imports. Exports grow, exports have, for example, 3.5 billion euros in 2003, 8.38 billion euros in 2007 and imports in 2003 of 7.13 billion euros, and in 2007, 14.6 billion euros, respectively, were 3.6 billion euros in 2003, and in 2007, it will be approximately 6.2 billion euros. The score is unfavourable, worrying. That's why I think, and I've said more than once, that the course of domestic currency has been overrated and that's one of the reasons why we've been reducing export competitiveness for the past few years, or rather, we're not increasing enough. On the other hand, we are creating preconditions that the best import factory, which must in any case be resolved through a combination of the macroeconomic policy of public finances, the macroeconomic policy of the Government and the monetary policy of the National Bank. This follows us and I think it is good that he is a representative of the government, and what is the Minister of Finance and others, the Minister of Economy, which they practically unanimously said: exporting is the biggest task of the 21st century of this country. Otherwise, we can't take advantage of this favourable public debt situation, and the privatisation revenues, which are one-time, and the revenues of the gaster, which are also one-time, we can't use for the longer term to treat our external trade deficit. Generally speaking, the conclusion of the second point is that our macroeconomic aggregates have a favourable movement, except for exports, but it was still possible, especially in the years when the base is low, because when the base increases, as in Western Europe, there is a growth rate of 2%, two to three percent, and when the low base is then high growth rates are being made. The second point I would talk about is the budget, the current budget for 2008. Our current budget for 2008 is dominantly social, and in one part, if they invest in capital investments, public investments, those 34 billion direct NIPs, and 12 billion credit lines, it is a developmental and in fact a desire to increase, through investments, the gross social product to a longer term and to increase the export competitiveness of our economy. He's social because of already repeatedly distinguished rights acquired. So we have acquired the rights of budget users. Here, let me just repeat a few budget sections, where you can see that these are acquired rights. Staff expenditure has been said several times, and I think it's one of the weaker points, not the individual's salary, but the salary in the mass, which means the reduction of the state administration, and the increase in wages per individual. It's some kind of futur, something that has to happen with us. It is particularly expressed as a transfer to social funds, where we incur over two billion euros in social funds, 165.6 billion dinars. Why? Because ours, as well as our old foreign savings, PIO has failed, has no capital in it and it is gradually capitalizing. Until PIO capitalizes, until he can get out of his own income and out of his own capital dividends to cover the current expenditures, we'll always have problems. What's good is that all three pensions and disability funds have been combined since the New Year's, in order to rationalise the directorship, i.e. to reduce the material, direct costs and others that are characteristic, which are used to manage these pension funds. So it's one of the largest budget sections, items, where we have an inheritance as it is. The following also refers to social protection, other examples of social protection, the transition fund, children's protection, martial law, social protection and so on, student standards and other categories, for which it is even singled out and insufficiently, given the need for these grants. So in 2009 and 2010, in essence, if there is no major leap, depending on the development of the gross social product, it will still have to have this social component, because it is unrealistic to expect that we will be able to capitalise PIO from our own resources, regardless of what it will combine and rationalise certain costs, but it will continue to be 33%, and 50%, it will continue to exist, it is some reality. In terms of budget revenues, we know that taxes are dominant, those of 639.6 billion are participating with 596.2 billion dinars. So, the totally dominant group of income is taxes, which is normal, because these are basic revenues in public finances, that is, budgets. I mean, that's Dr. Cvetkovic, and he pointed out, that the increase in profit tax shows our chance, but I think that as far as profit tax is concerned, because he's the lowest in the environment, 10% on the tax base, that there's one more tax discipline that must exist and that especially when it comes to profit tax they have to control, even I think it's business and parliament, public enterprises. We have 17 republican companies, we have 450 local companies. Basically, part of them acts like they don't have their own boss, and their boss is state and municipality. If the boss lets them do whatever they want, spend as much as they want, then they'll be happy to accept it, we don't have to convince them too much. Mr Cvetkovic said that within the Ministry, a group of people who will control public enterprises are defined, over the spending of public enterprises, because public enterprises are now being financed by the deficited railway alone with 10.6 billion, but the rest do not earn, except Telekom. How he can not earn NIS, as an exclusive monopoliest, with so many pumps, he must make a profit and make a profit in the state budget. About the budget, just one more note. I have to get back to this chart. What counterpart Topalovic said, practically, in 2008, the budget grew nominally. Please, the budget is nominally increasing 13.2%, and realistically, in constant prices it is increasing 6%. There was a trap, maybe you said on purpose, but gross social production is nominally 13.2%, budget growth is 9.9%. So, the gross social product is growing more nominally than the budget is growing. That's where that racio number comes out, which says that the participation of the 2006 budget, the participation of budget expenditures from 24.3 decreases to 23.5%, means 0.8%, that's the essence, that's the real number, where we compare two sizes that are only comparable. And nominal growth, I repeat, is 13.2%. In that sense, the gross social product is growing faster than the budget, and that is the intensity that Minister Cvetkovic spoke of as a basic intensities set up by these and future budgets. That's an assumption, but the assumption was that it would be this deficit in 2007, so the minister said we already had a reserve, or that it wasn't spent as much as planned. Maybe that's what's gonna happen in 2008. Finally, fourth point, risks and odds. In my opinion, it's a basic risk, and it's also a chance. Unemployment; we have two million constantly employed people. So it's both a risk and a chance. How can employment be achieved? It can only go through new investments and increase productivity. So, this state has to practically red carpet spread out in front of all potential investors, that's the essence, both domestic and foreign, not taking care of their origins. Second, the state administration. That's already said. State administration 9.7 GDP. In the longer term, restrictions must practically be made. It's also a reserve for that second part where, because of the rights acquired, there's no developmental part. Part three, finalization of privatisation. This law, which is here on the agenda, envisions December 31st, 2008, as the deadline, and that is necessary. We've already extended that deadline. There are no counterarguments that would challenge the claim that privatisation must end, because, above all, the existence of private and social property is practically giving birth to potential corruption. We all know that, and we've seen it in the history of all the countries. So all the countries rushed, even if there was no egalitarianism, that there was no justice, that there were mistakes, but the essence is to abolish the duality in ownership forms, that is to end the form that does not exist under the Constitution, which is called social property. I'm interpreting why it didn't end, because of the various pressures of various privatisation entities, which were practically delayed, and here I come to the fourth point, public enterprises. There's nothing to say. I think the first step is to share free shares.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13893	Excuse me, colleague Vujadinović, you must interrupt. Article 85 of Item 5, we extend the Assembly's working hours until after 1800 hours, until the end of the period.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13894	I accept this intervention. So, division, general vacherisation, 15% of public enterprises, on the one hand, besides being an egalitarian act, an act of justice, it will in fact make it impossible to further delay the privatisation of public enterprises, and that may be an even greater profit of the process. So, if it enters privatisation, it is said that if it enters into free action, it adopts a special law, it provides for the ownership structure of public enterprises to be defined by the end of 2010. Whether the state will be a majority owner or a minority, or sell completely public enterprises, it remains that practically every privatisation entity or property relationship change determines this on its governance bodies or through the National Assembly. Fourth point, privatisation and completion of the restructuring of large systems. I think it's the deadline of 2008. First of all, I mean the flag, the first five-year-old, Bor, and so on, where we are so far, I've been giving that information and that information is also public, we're so far on the discharge of debt and direct subsidies so-called. Large systems, 75 systems in restructuring, have so far invested 9 billion euros, through debt discharge and through direct subsidies. In essence, the result is difficult to achieve because the balances have failed for years. Bor owes $500 million at least. It will be difficult to rehabilitate through regular business. That's why we should go, and at the expense of a certain loss of state, lay off the debts of one-timers, to define the ownership structure, to get these systems to their owner, who will then work on the principle of profit. Fifth, capitalisation of the PIO, or recovery of the pension and disability fund, has been unique since the new year. It is also a necessary strategic measure, without which there is no cure for Serbia's macro-economy for the longer term. In that sense, the beginning is the merger of funds, but the real capitalisation where the fund will have its own account, like everyone else, so perhaps pensioners will have not only pensions, but may have dividends, as well as other pension funds. Finally, another final word, I think our public finances are in the good, safe and serious hands of Mr. Minister Tsvetkovic, and I really do say that not partyally. Knowing Mr. Cvetkovic's analyst, I'm sure you're all convinced that what Cvetkovic writes will not give up on these proportions he set up with the Memorandum and projections by 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13895	According to the Rules of Procedure, my fellow MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and then MP Zarko Obradovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13896	I assume that you from the DS applauded Mr. Vujadinovic for providing some data identical to those presented by the SRS about the poor business of public enterprises, NIS and others, under DOS rule. So, you are the opposition in your ranks, Mr. Vujadinovic, but I see you have a positive influence on your party colleagues to accept your views, including Mr. Minister himself. I've reached out to Article 85 of Section 5 to supplement you, Mr. Mr. Gristle. First of all, I know you wouldn't, but Milojub Albianic, who is now walking around the hall, a fellow vice president, kept saying that you should inform the MPs that the work will be extended after 1800 hours. I have to supplement you, but not beyond 20.00 hours, and strictly until 20.00 hours, because that is the agreement, that is, that is what the SRS and Mr Todorovic insisted on two days ago when he was in a meeting with the president of the Assembly, for the reason that immediately after that on the second RTS programme, and at the latest at 21.00 hours, the anti-Serb trial against our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, should begin. I know, dear fellow MPs, you from the DSS and from other political parties, from G17, that with the attention of tonight to the late hours, you followed the trial of our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, but I invite you to do so tonight, and you, Mr. Minister, from 9:00 p.m., especially the fact that I said this morning that by the witnesses of Antony Obershal, I assume some low-ranking spy or drunkard, since he looked like that, he won't remain a stone on the stone. Therefore, it will be instructive for you, so since only these few arguments about the poor state of our economy and economy, which Mr Vujadinovic has presented, have a positive impact on you, I believe that you, fully aware of the fact that Professor Vojislav Seselj defends Serbia and the interest of our country there, will all come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow with a desire and, of course, with an intimate feeling, because one day you must be convinced on the basis of such arguments, that the western Serbian border is located on the Karlobag-Ogulin-Carlovac-Virovica line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13897	The word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic and then by the replica Zdravko Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13898	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I must take this opportunity to comment on what my colleague Vujadinovic said. A colleague, Vujadinovic, should know, because all of Serbia knows this, when they mention the CIP, the synonym for the CIP is Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, not what you mentioned. All that you said, I must tell you, at least I'm associated with a famous aphorism of the government of Bulatovic - before the war we had nothing, and then the Germans came and took everything from us. So you before Cvetkovic are nothing, and then Cvetkovic, and all the honey and milk. Is that right? It's not. With all due respect to Mr Cvetkovic, because what I'm saying has nothing to do with him, of course to the extent that Mr Cvetkovic doesn't consider it personal or if I don't say something personal, but on a very simple case, I will tell you that neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government are doing what they say in public to do. So, it's very simple, when you say he keeps his word, no, he doesn't keep his word. The government keeps their word. No, don't keep your word. Did six months ago in the debate on the Budget Law say publicly that VAT on equipment, food imports, clothing and baby shoes would be lifted? Yeah. Is it done? No, I don't. Very simple. Get out of these high-ranking things, high-level politics. VAT for babies, did you promise the citizens -- yes. Have you met - you haven't. The point of how the government treats it. I purposely decided, in agreement with my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, to dedicate this exposure only to this issue - the VAT on babies, and to show how consistent the government is inconsistencies with this issue. To make sure everyone understands what it is, since some obviously don't understand, I hold an official document of the Serbian state relating to the Serbian population projection. I quote, so you will understand the importance of what I'm talking about: "According to the projections of Serbia's population in the next half century, the process of depopulation will continue. According to each of the six analysed projection variants, made after the 2002 census, the number of Serbian residents in 2052 will be lower than in 2002. Depopulation flows would only be stopped if a variant of high fertility was achieved, but only in the second half of the projection period. The results of the analysed population projections suggest it is difficult to expect to improve Serbia's demographic picture, which will be marked by a reduction in the population and its very intense ageing. "It's our destiny. There'll be fewer of us, and as a people, we'll be older. However, successful implementation of measures to stimulate birth and speed up economic transition can slow down adverse trends. That would possibly change something by the middle of the 21st century. Why am I saying this? Because five months ago, when we had a budget debate for 2005, we had a promise from the minister that it would be reduced tax on VAT and that promise was not done. Namely, before the session of the Serbian Parliament when VAT taxes were discussed, Mr Cvetkovic is together with Mr Dulic, that you do not think that I am leaving him out of this story because they jointly organised a meeting with parents, this is one association of parents who then collected 30,000 signatures, and Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Dulic promised to reduce VAT. Publicly, they said they'd cut the VAT on equipment, clothing and baby food. The finance ministry then officially supported 16 NGOs' initiative to cut VAT in buying food, clothing and baby equipment, but also apply a number of other measures, they said, to lower the prices of these products. What's the matter? Since the SPS MPs submitted two amendments here during the debate on the law, two amendments, one that envisioned the removal of VAT, the second was the reduction of VAT, the government was in one unfortunate situation. They promised the citizens, and they should show it here. They resorted to the simplest solution, ignored the citizens and refused to accept the SPS amendments. I must say, at that time, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, gave the following explanations why he could not accept the amendments. I remind you, there were two amendments, abolishing and reducing, and they publicly said they would reduce VAT. They have not accepted the amendments, on the grounds that the amendment is unclear. When my colleagues and I, it seems to me that Mr. Paja Momchilov was the most active in it, reminded them that there was a business possibility that the government would intervene with its amendment, so that vague amendment would make sense, clear, of course they didn't accept it. The second explanation of the government was not to specify the products for which VAT would be abolished. We told them, it's not the subject of the amendment, it's the subject of a lower sublegal act. They said, okay, this doesn't make any sense to us either, so we're going to go to the third explanation. The third explanation was not to specify the social layer to which the relief would be applied. People are economists, they do not understand that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the equality of citizens and the enjoyment of all the same levels of human rights. Then they left that question quickly. Then they gave the fourth, that the EU directives and standards do not provide for the abolition of VAT on transport and import of food, clothing and baby equipment. This whole EU directive thing, it's just a special story. We are talking about the EU directive in 2008, when the EU itself is making a single projection of its development, and it says - by 2011, we will see how we implement our agreement by 2014, and by 2017 we will see whether the EU will expand or not. Of course, in the EU itself, I have said this on a number of concrete examples, the situation is that individual EU members themselves have the opportunity to decide whether or not they will accept any obligations. For example, the UK and Ireland do not apply certain parts of human rights and fundamental freedoms because they believe they have a special situation that can benefit them, or some other countries do not respect all those criteria or criteria relating to the EU. What's the matter? We here in the Serbian Parliament had a situation that all opposition parliamentary groups voted in favour of the two amendments, the ruling coalition did not vote for either. The point was said only later, that the state had not thought about it at all and that there was no projection of whether and how much this would have caused the effects in the Republic of Serbia's budget. What's the matter? Since they essentially disaved themselves, the citizens with the initiative left the amendments unaccepted, it happened that after Mr. Patriarch Paule sent an open letter to the government of the Republic of Serbia, where he requested that VAT be abolished for clothing, equipment and baby food. Mr. Paule then says - if they do cancel out and cut the same taxes for buying the first apartment... I forgot to say that, at the same session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, VAT was abolished for the purchase of the first apartment, and you know that only rich people can buy in a situation that exists now in Serbia, VAT for computers and components has been abolished, and in particular, that all these components are being brought in from the Far East and sold here at a far higher price, and that I am not talking about the educational structure of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the fact that very few citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is a fact, can use the same computer with components that are intended for release. So, Mr. Paul prays to the government, in a public letter, to do everything possible to finally abolish and pay taxes on food, clothing and baby equipment, with the assessment that most of the villages in Serbia have relaxed, that schools and cities are closing down and working with reduced capacity and that the white plague warns us every year. The Patriarch believes that tax cuts would be a concrete contribution to halting this. What happens, of course, when it comes to patriarch Paul, the government reacts immediately. Mr. Lonchar said the government accepted the proposal, here's black on white. The government has accepted the proposal, but not all, since, when it comes to government, it doesn't count on everything. A public press conference was held and it was said -- the government of the Republic of Serbia accepts the appeal of Patriarch Paul to abolish VAT on clothing, shoes and baby food. Then everyone, with the exception of DS members, has to be honest, so let me say, no, there's going to be advice, so we're going to see if we need it or not, and then we're going to do one projection, and then we're going to see. I mention this to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see what kind of government we have. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in the image of the Prime Minister, says - yes, we will accept and the DSS minister says - yes, we will accept, and other ministers think it is not binding. The government's view that it will, unfortunately, not come to life in practice. It remains public impression that the government has accepted Mr. Patriarch Paul's initiative to abolish VAT on clothing, equipment and baby food. But nothing really happened. Citizens may not know, in order for an initiative to be accepted, it must have some form of legal initiative and here MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to vote on it. This happened at the end of June, in early July, and in early November, the SPS proposed four laws here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. One about pensions, where we asked for 60% of the average personal income to remain as pensions, not to be reduced, because pensioners are right when they say that in the last year they have been significantly reduced pensions and this story of corrections, about compensation, is only correcting the injustice that has been done to them. The second law was that our colleague Rajko Baralić, the children of the parents who are from the village and who have lost their parents, became concerned, that is, the welfare of the state. The third was to extend media privatisation time at the local level. The fourth was the law on changes to the VAT law on babies. We have again suggested that this member be abolished. Again, Mr. Vujadinović, Government, and I must say, fellow MPs, you have completely ignored this attitude and no one wanted to vote for it. Then we have an initiative of NGOs, 10 days later, now 40,000 signatures -- a bill to abolish VAT. Believe it or not, we have this answer here, because it was delivered with this material, not with the request of the SPS, but with that material, the government delivered the response and said, "The government does not accept this bill for formal and legal reasons." So, when it comes to socialists, the amendment is unclear, there's no product list, it doesn't specify the social layer that it refers to, and here for formal and legal reasons. I must say that this explanation also has one part of the explanation given to us, which is that these famous EU directives, that is, prevent the government, it would do so, but it cannot go beyond the directive, because these EU directives bind its hands, and this government is so affected by these EU integrations that it cannot even think that, God forbid, it can do something useful for Serbia, which may be contrary to the interests of the EU. It's a classic story again. Here are some ministers who pay more attention to how the EU will react to Kosovo and Metohija than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia react to Kosovo and Metohija. It is more important for them to be told there in the West that they are good and correct and that they have the same values as they are, than to be told, we will defend our country or we will not let part of the territory be taken. Of course, these are the same reasons again. To be honest, certain statistics are also mentioned, where it has been said that the fertility rate has been dropping for years and that this amendment cannot be accepted for the following reasons. fellow MPs, I mentioned this not by accident, we heard the story that it was only one of the measures, it might be good, but it's only one of the measures. But here is the problem: 1) The government said, and did not do; 2) the whole list of measures, did nothing, except the Council met and the Council took certain views. And according to the press, he even has the view of the advice that, as one of the measures, we should reduce the tax on clothing, equipment, and baby food. The point is, we don't see a list of measures here at all. It's not as complicated as it looks. Here, I have two kinds of bills here. For our people to understand, one is from a Western country, and this is our home country. When you buy a baby product with us, VAT is 18%, and in the West it says: tax 0% for clothing for children, not only for babies, but also for children, two, three, four years old. The minister may not know, and he should know, for example, that the famous diapers are sold at different prices, from 1.154 to 1.254, to 1.444. Everyone's explaining -- there you go, it's got to be. There's a question of what the state has to do or what it wants to do. What is bad for the government and for the minister, objectively, is the attitude of companies dealing with the import of these products. He's writing a man, black on white. The name does not matter, but the director of a company dealing with the import and distribution of babies and child equipment believes that the state should abolish or at least reduce VAT. So he, the man who deals with it, thinks so. Then it is said: "The bills of merchants point to a constant reduction in the traffic of goods from baby range." So, the people don't have any money anymore anyway. I don't know if you're aware, but ordinary people buy one, two or five pieces of diapers, for example working, for their children, don't buy a package because they don't have the money, because in this democratic time Serbia has suddenly povertyed and the purchasing power of the population is such that they can't buy what kind of package, they can't buy 10 diapers at once. ''The account of traders indicates a constant reduction in the turnover of goods from the range, and a smaller VAT would contribute to the cost of these items. ''So, people who deal with it, otherwise there are examples from some other countries, that that company that's an importer of these things, that sells it at the lowest possible price, and then refunds part of the cost of importing these products to the state. In fact, what's the point here? The government did not have the strength to keep its promise at this point in December 2007, because if it had abolished the baby VAT, then it would have to find another source to fill the budget. We haven't heard from the minister how much that amount is in the structure of the budget. It would be good to hear. Maybe all of this I've cited as some examples of why I should, might have some reasons why I shouldn't, but the thing is very clear and simple, I think. Go to the store, and you will see what the prices are, so you will face the situation that the prices of children's products are far higher than the prices of some adult products. The demographic situation in Serbia is catastrophic. Of the 161 municipalities, 155 is a negative natural growth. We are the fourth people in Europe among the 10 oldest in the world. This study I read to you at the beginning speaks, according to six different versions of these statistics, in 2052 Serbia will have fewer inhabitants than it is now. It's not this, future government or the previous one, it's a matter of state policy. But unfortunately, the situation is that we do not have a state policy regarding the demographic situation in Serbia and how it is to improve. Neither will this measure of government, to be fair to each other and to the citizens of Serbia, nor would this measure of government have so much effect if it wasn't part of the others, but something must begin. The worst situation here is everyone's silence and everyone's acting crazy, and the fact is that prices are high and citizens don't have opportunities. I could understand that it's said -- okay, we've given young people the opportunity to get apartments, get loans, pregnant women get the right to extended sick leave, they've been increased the amount of money they receive from six or nine to 12 months, they're not going to receive 50, 60 or 70%, they're going to receive 100% or 120% of the average personal income in a company where they work, to see that there's a list of measures that have that dimension to improve the demographic situation. But that's not there. Therefore, this question is important for some of us, and it is very important for Serbia, whether you consider it or not, because free and computer, free and non-governmental organisations, free and service of all other things, if there are no children, if there is no baby, if there is no new culture, there will be no Serbia, gentlemen Members of Parliament. So I can't understand why the government doesn't come out fair and say we didn't plan it, we'll do it next year. Trying to make us crazy and talk and do each other, it can't. That is why I felt it necessary to dedicate this whole budget statement to only one subject, in order to show, in practice, that the government is doing very incorrectly, ignoring attitudes, for example. At least 40,000 people who are initiators of this bill ignore the position of one parliamentary group, who later joined all parliamentary groups of the opposition, but unfortunately ignores future Serbia, as Serbia's future needs young generations. And without these measures, which include this measure, the young will not be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13899	Thank you, Mr. Beard. The SPS used its maximum time available. A lot of time used and a little overworked. It was 38 minutes total. The word is given by the People's Messenger Lidija Vukicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13900	Dear MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, have reported to me, of course, within the budget. Mr. Minister, you will from this exposure to answer, I hope, the question that will follow from all this. The budget law provides for the merger of three funds, according to the budget law, which is the fund for agriculture, the state fund and the self-employed fund. We have this problem, I mean the standoffs now, I'm not just talking about artists, we've had it in 2003, so somehow we've managed to defend ourselves with various petitions, which are now on the pier, which are written now, we've managed to preserve our own fund as it has functioned so far. Because of the state's lack of control over state-owned companies that had to pay their workers' contributions under the law, the state fund has failed. I mean all state-owned companies, like the Robing Houses, and I don't count all the other companies. The state fund failed, so people were cut off from pensions, so, say, they didn't get pensions for two or three pensions, then the state had to intervene, so the state budget was set aside for late pensions, not to say that there was inflation and that maybe they were getting less money. Most of the time, it was their problem, the state thus solved the problem of disrespecting the payment of contributions to its workers. Unlike the state fund, there is a fund of independent actions, which regularly paid people's pensions every month. So, in the day, in the hour, and it's been going on for years. Why are pensions paid regularly? For the simple reason that independent workers, therefore, people who belonged to these independent associations, paid themselves monthly contributions, because otherwise they couldn't do the internship, otherwise they couldn't do the social or the job. Since the standoffs paid regularly, the fund was in their plus, Mr. Minister, because the stand-alones were making regular payments. We know that, and it can be very easily checked. On the other hand, the state retired people in full strength, it's the police, the military, people who left with insufficient numbers of years retired in various companies, etc. That's how we got into a situation where more pensioners were created than an economic budget could cover. With this merger, as you have predicted in the budget law, the money of stand-alones will be poured into one register and we will have to cover the failures of state policy. I don't think that's right. I will listen very carefully to your opinion. I want to hear your answer, not just me, now I speak for myself, but as a representative of all independent associations. I would like my colleague Branimir Djokić to read to you the petition that was written, not for reasons that we would oppose you by post-poo, but for reasons that you would be familiar with what the independents are not satisfied with and why the stand-alones now have to suffer, because the state institutions did not do their job properly, i.e.. they did not make contributions to workers every month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13901	The People's MP Branimir Djokić, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. I apologize to the others, only that we have the continuity of the story, so we will continue, so Aleksandar Marton, so Natasa Jovanovic, then Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13902	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Minister, chairing, this problem that my colleague Lydia presented here in the Assembly, as a member of the SRS, on behalf of his colleagues who have been trying to defend and preserve their fund for years, I would read a letter and an appeal made in the co-ordination body of all Serbian artists and who are now orbiting Serbia for the signing of a petition, in order for the ministry to hear and try to prevent such an act from destroying the self-activities fund. "We consider the merger of the PIO self-activities fund with the state fund to be illegal, immoral, non-democratic, incompatible with the social orientation and principles and EU conventions. The PIO Autonomous Labour Fund is a healthy fund with the European proportions of active pensioners. Uniting an independent fund with a state fund is absurd, speculating and creating a general, sick fund on a budget hump. The PIO of Independent Activities was founded by independent artists and independent workers in culture, craftsmen, lawyers and other independent actions, and their private capital would be confiscated, past all European and our social tendencies. Today through this fund, their civil rights are being achieved by independent artists of all tradesmen, craftsmen, lawyers, priests, brokers, cab drivers and other entrepreneurs, and it is a pattern of how a modern fund should function. It is absurd to keep propagating and stimulating new private pension insurance, while at the same time going towards destroying the traditional private PIO fund of independent activities, which is a decades-old liquid, which is absolutely in the distance with democratic and anti-democratic intent." I read this letter, given that this letter is sent to all possible institutions. "The co-ordination board of Serbian Art Associations, as well as the Associations of Independent Workers in the field of culture, with more than eight thousand insurance companies, as well as other organisations of these insurance companies, craftsmen, lawyers, entrepreneurs and the like in the adoption of the Law on PIO in 2003 protested vigorously against the financial accession of the fund of independent actions to the state fund, but their arguments and protest did not bear fruit. That is why we are appealing and most vigorously protesting against the alleged legitimate requirements of the then legislator, headed by global experts Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic. We address you and the overall democratic public of Serbia, and we appeal to protect the preservation of the declared democratic practice, and we are giving the strongest protests against the legal, immoral and in any way incorrect intent. We have decided to resist the destruction of our fund with all our strengths, with the support of the highest public, and to seek an urgent amendment to the legislation that regulates the unification of the fund and the abolition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation on the integration of the PIO fund from 1 January 2008. We will require the protection of democratic civil rights from competent European institutions, in the final and address of the International Court in Strasbourg." Once again on behalf of my colleagues and on behalf of all these institutions who wrote this memo and appeal, please consider once again whether there is a chance to prevent this in some way and to preserve this fund, because it is a fund that the stand-alones, in some way, founded and they finance their own pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13903	The word is from Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13904	A comment on this question, about the funds. So here we are talking about the 2008 budget law and what happened in that visa-fund law, it's just a reflection of one process that started in 2005, when the pension reform law was passed, or the system. In 2005, these funds were scheduled to be brought together in a gradual period, which now, the first point, came to take place in early 2008. Then, going a significant time point is in 2011 etc. So, the budget itself does neither combines nor separates funds, but does so by law on the pension system, and the budget illustrates what is going on in that segment and cannot help or make it go away. I'd give you about my opinion of why this is happening, where we've arrived and what future steps are. Why even the idea of joining funds? The idea is from there that all these funds are basically incomes, these are public revenues, and the commitments these funds generate are at the heart of their public commitment. The fact that one fund in the past has achieved significant surpluses, and some other funds of significant deficits, is not so much the result that someone is doing great, is highly organized, and someone else is doing it badly, but rather the relationship between those who pay pension contributions and those who use these funds to make pensions paid. With the circumstances that the fund relating to self-activities has a relationship between those who contribute and those who receive pensions from it is very favourable compared to that particular fund of classical employees, so that this surplus, which is basically a temporary character, and that fund, the estimates I've seen, will enter the deficit somewhere since 2015 and 2018, when the number of those who receive the pension is increased to that extent, then there will also be a deficit in this fund, which will be the basis for the state to put it into the framework of the transfer and to provide these missing funds. What has been done so far is not any destruction of this fund in financial terms, so all three funds remain with their special accounts, where the funds are clearly recorded whose funds they belong to, but the consolidation has been carried out in an organisational sense, so that now it appears that one board of directors, one administration, appears, but we have special accounts and funds still do not interfere between these funds. The actual consolidation in the financial sense is planned to take place from the beginning of 2011, so it will only occur in three or four years from today, when it really occurs. At this point, the reform has reached that only in the organisational sense has it accumulated, but not in the financial part, where the accounts are still separate and it is clearly known whose assets are. That would be my answer, noting that we are now discussing the budget, and that the issue of the pension system and its reform, is something that goes its course, and if MPs have different opinions in this regard, then it should open up specifically and independently of the budget, and also with another resolution minister who has much better knowledge of it than I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13905	The word is Branimir Djokić, under Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, and Alexander Marton. Please, let's finish the controversy and take the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13906	Your Honor, I apologize, but according to your presentation, you say around 2015 this fund will come in crisis and it won't be possible, but these are your estimates. So, by 2015, assuming he's coming into crisis, let's now let's have that fund that's in the surplus, which is doing great, where everyone's supporting the stand-alones that he exists, that now we kind of shut him down, because we're assuming in 2015 that he's going to fail. Please leave it for 2015. On Monday, this is for your information, people from all structures are gathering together, lawyers, and craftsmen, all stand-alones, artists, one protest asking for their fund to be preserved. If their fund works extraordinarily, if their fund operates from their money, I don't see any reason why you'd bring it together, and you say they'll have two separate accounts. Why are you bringing them together? It's got nothing to do with the budget, but we're asking you now to prevent such an attempt, because all the people of the independent fund don't want it, they want their fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13907	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13908	Mr. Chairman, just 15 minutes ago, LSV MP Aleksandra Jerkov reiterated the question, a little and upgraded the question I asked yesterday, and I would really like it, we from LSV would like to hear the answers to the questions that we have asked from Minister Cvetkovic and the Vice-President of the government of Bozidar Djelic, who was promised to be present today. We think that clear questions, concrete and afraid, if we don't get answers today or in a few days, we might think that the Minister, Vice President and Prime Minister or all the other members of the government don't know the answers to our clear, correct and concrete questions. Just added, since we don't get answers to these questions, another question. 20 days ago, both MPs and media are witnesses that we, i.e. I specifically asked Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic about concessions and the decision of the province authorities IV AP Vojvodina to deprive the AP Vojvodina of the republican budget of all this about concessions. Minister Bozidar Djelic himself made it clear that Vojvodina would be compensated and spoke of a concrete figure, about 220m euros as a clear compensation to the AP Vojvodina. We believe, and the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, and I will remind Minister Cvetkovic that IV Vojvodina is led by a man who is from the DS, so Bojan Pajtic, so I think you certainly know the answer to this question. I would ask if the truth is what Minister Djelic was saying, that the 220m figure per 30 years is tolerable for the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's not exactly clear to us where that number is in the budget right now. I think the question is clear, so we're expecting an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13909	The word has a Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13910	I'd give an answer very briefly. First, why he'd come up three or four times, and I'm not giving an answer. I concentrate on the issues that come from the 2008 budget domain. As far as the 2007 budget is concerned, how much it's spent, that's the thing that's going to be in the final account in the next century. Of course, if the MPs are interested in these questions, they will get them, but we would not waste time now, but will receive them in writing. As far as this budget is concerned, I've already given an answer to the whereabouts of Vojvodina. So the Vojvodina will get exactly the 7%, at least get 7%, as defined by the Constitution. I pointed out yesterday exactly what the items were and what the basics were. What some MPs think is that the item that is related to salaries in the Vojvodina territory is just to say the fiction, I also explained that each budget is a flow water heater, that the republican budget receives pay items, and then pays them off and there's no difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13911	Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Albianic, reporting under Article 226. I ask you to forward my question to the President of the National Assembly, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Staff, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the State. At 16 o'clock, so-called. TV B92 has shown a contribution in which military police officers, who do not know which destination they are referring to, apparently by order of traitors Ponoš and Sutanovac, go to military facilities throughout Serbia. (President: Please, Miss Jovanovic, don't say that, Minister. Chief of General Staff. ) They go to military facilities across Serbia, break down doors... You want to shut up a little bit... and seek out the UN war crimes indictees the anti-Serb Hague casamat is looking for in military facilities. Mr. Albianic, if it is not alarming for you and if you think that the Serbian army should do so, that it pursues those who have defended the Serbian state and the Serb people, that soldiers who are in the military police do not know where they are going, to which destinations, as they have shown, and that, imagine, leads the B92 TV camera to record it all. And in the end, a soldier, a member of the military police, reports and says we haven't found anyone. Of course you won't. Because regardless of those orders that come to you from your Western mentors and whatever the Sutanovac system is, while the village burns, the grandmother combs, dances and sings at her father-in-law's concert, chases the Hague prisoners, she needs to know that absolutely nothing can happen to them. As these villains must know, like Vukcevic and others, who work for The Hague tribunal and every day, I see these days have been silenced, which does not mean they will not go back on witnesses who force them to testify against the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj. I'm asking you, Mr. Albianic, to get that information immediately. Because what anti-Serbian B92 has shown as a special contribution or exclusiveity that they have with a camera pointed at the door of military facilities -- it's not some thing anyone can easily cross over. It's all done at a very sensitive moment. Instead of those unfortunate, and Ponoš, and Sutanovac think about it, Tadic and Kostunica, how they will protect the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, they are advocating the fact that they are sending soldiers, members of the military police, and yesterday, both today and all these days to seek out Serbian heroes, to deliver them as living meat to The Hague tribunal. So, Mr. Albianic, don't ever think about it again, even though it's now three minutes since you interrupted me, when he says any Serbian radical about this thing... (bell rings) Here, I tried to teach you something, but obviously it's not worth it... to interrupt me, to make fun of it. If you were a man and you had authority, as Mr. Vukic thought this morning, but obviously you didn't, you would first advocate yourself as someone who presides all these days, mostly, in the absence of Parliament president, that we here are talking about the Kosovo and Metohija issue, to discuss the protection of national interests, and not that your main problem is whether or not colleague Vukicevic and counterpart Djokic will continue to talk about a problem in our society - the area of culture, whether you are going to interrupt Serbian radicals and whether someone has three hours or not, according to the Rules of Procedure. When I get this information... (President: Thank you, Miss Jovanovic)... And any of us, Mr. Albianic, is my duty and duty, as patriots and MPs, to warn all those who play with the patience of citizens not to do so anymore. And I'm ordering these honorable soldiers who are forced to do such duties that they too are late to shut down, because I repeat again, they can never do anything to those who The Hague, just as they can't do to the president of our party, Professor Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13913	Thank you. The People's MP Zdravko Topalović, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's MP Rajko Baralić, and the National MP Zoran Krasic. I'm really asking you to work or we're not going to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13914	Mr. Albianic, I am using the right to a replica, mentioned by my colleague, Vujadinovic. I have to admit not in such a negative context, but we just need to clarify some of the information we discussed. Here, I must repeat, for the sake of the public, that the data was used from your sources, from the government and from what you published. So, the fact is that there will be a growth of gross social product by 6.5 percent and you have to admit that this budget is really too big for that level of gross social product. And what we have to mention once again, the scariest thing is that the deficit, the budget deficit of 14.8 billion dinars, will be compensated from privatisation. We talked about it. Here, I have set a concrete example -- instead of a privatisation fund to invest in production, create new jobs, thus expanding the number of taxpayers in Serbia -- means people who will fill that budget. No, you once for choosing to put out the fire. We'll talk about the Privatization Act here. You put him on an emergency procedure on the agenda, and you're in a hurry to cover that deficit next year. You've presented some of the causes of the economic crisis, although I must tell you that the incomparable data from 2000 are now. You know how the budget was filled, that there was a war environment and there were sanctions, so there would be some unreal indicators that we're discussing right now. You said everything, but you did not name the main culprit and probably Mr. Albianic does not want to give me his word for an hour, and that is obviously one of the ministers, Mladjan Dinkic. It has led to many things, such an unfavourable economic environment in Serbia itself. I understand, as a professional, a man of the profession, it's difficult for you to vote and defend a budget like this. We talked about strengthening financial discipline, which you mentioned, and about solid fiscal monetary policy. You agreed with me that the course was unrealistic. You didn't just want to agree with me that CEFTA pushed us into deeper agony. Instead of forcing exports, we force the import lobby again. So these funds and the privatisation that we are now investing in production are very difficult to create healthy competition compared to those of the companies that are entering. As I mentioned, here is another interesting piece of information - the results in January-August 2007, as regards macroeconomic and fiscal indicators. Well, when Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the National Assembly here, there was a cry -- the collapse of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, even Wall Street, New York City... (bell rings) I'm finishing up... The stock exchange, and the real truth is that a few days ago, the Belgrade Stock Exchange almost broke down. Explain to me why?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13915	Thank you, Mr. Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13916	Since I have, I will finish, I am only sorry that you did not name the real culprit, your coalition partner Mladjan Dinkic, for whom we all suffer, for which this country goes to poverty, and normal Božidar Djelic, Mr Milosavljevic, all mentioned ministers from my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13917	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13918	Dear Mr. Albianic, there's no reason to rush, all the time in this world is ours, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's a clean position. There's no Mr. Minister. I reported on behalf of members 225 and 226. Mr. Cvetkovic came out. The merger of three pension insurance funds is the nationalisation of the Fund of Independent Entrepreneurs. It's nationalization. Now I'm asking Mr. Minister -- is that how he's going to nationalize and complete the third pillar of insurance -- private pension insurance? Because it might come to someone's mind that it's also interesting and that, through a flow boiler for the budget, it can possibly serve as a source of budget financing at a certain point. These are important questions. As far as I know, and as much as I remember from the four election campaigns of the ruling parties, nationalisation is not mentioned, but denationalisation, restitution. Here, today I see two distinguished colleagues from the ruling parties mentioned this -- the need to reregister cars registered to Montenegrin papers, etc. - I know exactly that there will be elections in three weeks. Every time this topic becomes current, I know immediately that there will be elections. In the morning, I expect someone to mention that the prisoners will be shortened in the maintenance of the sentence, as much as I expect tomorrow to have someone call in to initiate it. Also, I expect someone else to say that all those who didn't get the apartments, and they were paying for the housing contribution, how much on this list tomorrow to get apartments, etc. Our job is to recognize what you're doing in the campaign. So, we ask now, that all people in Serbia hear -- will the prisoners get the promised amnesty? Will car owners who drive vehicles registered to Montenegrin papers and tables receive the right to register them as other Serbian citizens, as you promised? So we ask you to say publicly, and colleagues from the ruling coalition, please, I can give them free useful advice -- this is being resolved by the minister from that party saying that at the government's session, and bring the government to the regulation and say, "This is regulated in that way." The final question -- will the ruling coalition vote to open secret police files? The SPS is throwing you a bone. We'll vote to see your voice open the files of the secret police. We already did it on the Security Committee. Who's afraid of the secret files of one, the other, the third, the fifth, the seventeenth, since it's a campaign, that I say so in the campaign, and as far as this is concerned, Mr. Minister, it would be correct to know whether you can have one special fund, what kind of fund are independent artists, entrepreneurs who paid for it under the law and based on, to say, something that someone has decided somewhere, in this way; it's the same as if you've brought one company together with others and you haven't asked them first, they won't be with these others, they have their own system and they have their own organs and they want to function in that fund as they think they should, and the state should prescribe general rules that they have to follow and they have to respect. I'm ending up not answering again. To you, Mr. Albianic, let me say tonight I watched a ce-de talk about your stay in Kostolic for a long time. If I were to teach you, I could not teach you, but I wouldn't mind, but the citizens of the Fireman at the referendum if they wanted to, so if most of them did, then the Kostolac would be a municipality, not like when you stood up for a pay phone and you said... (President: Mr. Baralic, you've been talking for four minutes.) )......................................................................................................... It will be the Municipality of Kostolac. I'm talking because it was your promotion, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13919	Yes, I'm in favour of the Kostolac municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13920	And I advocate, you just told people that it's possible to accomplish it in an illegal way. I'm instructing you, Mr. Albianic, that it's not possible to accomplish it the way you falsely promised people. I don't mind, give me a warning, just to balance both lapels. I got one the other day, and I'm very happy about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13921	Thank you, Mr. Baralic, but time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13922	It's election campaign time, Mr. Albianic. Throw out the candidate, run for office, see what this is all about. Otherwise, I've submitted one amendment that everyone has to vote for G17, but that'll come when we talk in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13923	MP Zoran Krasic. I'm really asking you to stop with the Rules of Procedure. We have time to discuss this. We have three hours at our disposal to discuss and we're reporting to the Rules of Procedure to make it longer, what, I don't know what. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13924	I know it was a nice practice for one who presides to read the synopsis without hitting with some of his improvisations. Mr. Albianic, I appeal to Article 226. And, unlike what it says here, I'm going to build it up a little bit. I want to help the government of Vojislav Kostunica, since they are truly uninformed. What's this about? You can see for yourself that a little bit and let the police, that the military, that the civilian is searching for something, they're looking for something. Now they're looking for someone who's been indicted in front of The Hague tribunal. Now, you inform Vojislav Kostunica, and it is much better to inform Mladjan Dinkic: exactly where the one accused in The Hague is is. Mr. Cvetkovic, take the case against whoever concluded the contract with TV B92 and gave them that building state. You see, wherever you go to do something, the fly goes to camera B92. Now I'm going to tell you why, Mr. Cvetkovic. When you go to work, go online, look for The Hague tribunal and look for images of wanted persons, who have not yet been arrested. You'll find one man, and under his picture it says, maybe this guy doesn't fit with time. He says he's using his pseudonym. Well, the one they accused in The Hague uses the pseudonym Veran Matic. The painting of Veran Matic is on the indictment of The Hague tribunal. Arrest him, deliver him, finish the job, and you're his TV, his cameras, you're going to concerts, you're running in here. Well, I know he's an angry Shutanovac, and there's been a big affair. It can't calm down now in government at all. So, deliver Veran Matic to The Hague tribunal, you've lifted one obligation. Well, look how well I've helped you. He looks, but that's him, his picture, you see one thing. If he resists arrest, call me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13925	The People's Messenger Veljko Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13926	Dear People's MPs, as you have heard from our previous two speakers, Lidija and Djokic, as usual, concerns the pension fund. You know, I have to start with an opening exhibit. The electricity industry of Germany has been sold and here some speakers talk about the sale of electricity, but you know about 40% of the electricity industry is in their pension fund, and their development bank, their pension fund is in their investments. So by pooling state, private and agricultural investments in retirement, it doesn't make sense, with this mature capital, which they did nicely. The question is, can they withdraw money? So, you'd just take their name in fact, they'd withdraw their money, and what would be left of it? Can they actually withdraw their money, invest in another development bank, abroad, since there are now these independent pension funds? So, what do you get? You'll only get the name of a private pension, and you don't have the means. We have a lesson in building the Sava Center, we have a lesson with a destroyed pension fund and we have no trust, and these people and citizens don't trust each other anymore to join the state pension fund. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13927	National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13928	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, under Articles 225 and 226, and yesterday I informed you about the Administrative Board and the letter which he sent to public undertakings and agencies regarding the salaries of directors of boards, supervisory committees, board members, board members. Yesterday, unfortunately, I did not have accurate information when it comes to the oil industry of Serbia, because they declared it an official secret and just said the way their salary is calculated. Now I can inform you, I said between 500 and 600,000, the salary of the director of the Serbia Oil Industry is 562,000, the salary of the chairman of the Management Board is also 562,000. When you take on how many board members, members of the Supervisory Board, members of the Assembly, then you realize the situation in the boards of public enterprises, directorial salaries in agencies, etc. I never abused the data received by the Administrative Board, I felt that we should get from all public enterprises and agencies, and only then would the Administrative Board discuss it and we would agree on some guidelines, what we think and what we should do. Unfortunately, some public companies and agencies didn't respond, but the information commissioner had to intervene, so we got that information from him, so I'm going to read it to you today. For Serbia's Radio-Television Radio-Television, their famous director, Aleksandar Tijanic, has 255,000 monthly salary. That's about three thousand and some euros. President of the Management Board 134.664, members of Council 89.000. The public company PTT traffic Serbia, the director has 256.282 dinars, chairman of the Management Board 182,000, members of 158,000, chairman of the Supervisory Board 97,000, members of 48.000. Nikola Tesla's airport, they only sent for the director, I don't know why they're embarrassed, she's not even that big of a salary compared to those from NIS, only 382.210 dinars. How many board members, chairmans of the board of directors, have, however, some MPs who are members of the board of directors of the Aerodrom Nikola Tesla, probably know what their salary is. The Republic Water Directorate, Director 122,519, has no information for the others. The Serbian Public Enterprise, director of 144.303 dinars, chairman of the Management Board 69,000, Vice-President 63,000, members of the Board of Directors of the 58,000, chairman of the Supervisory Board 69,000. Here, ladies and gentlemen, these are just for a few companies what the salaries of directors and boards are. I've calculated total data for all the companies that I've got the agencies for, and it's moving in the monthly amount of a few dozen million dinars. These are salaries on boards of public enterprises. These are party personnel, which are not involved in politics, which are sent by the party leadership to these boards of directors. There, they have a nice application at the director's posts and as board members, they are the ones who are the source of corruption, through which all corruption business ends, and the state of Serbia pays only in the monthly amounts of millions of damage. What I calculated for a number of enterprises, about 150,000 euros just for what they delivered me. For 150,000 euros, gentlemen, at least three average apartments can be built monthly. You see how much this country and these Serbian citizens pay for those who, without any responsibility, among other things thanks to you, you are going into a political struggle here, suffering all the problems that they are causing to the most, and they are taking off the whip. It must, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, finally cease. We must seek out those who are in power to behave in accordance with our country's economic power. Take just a few dozen million dinars a month, and somewhere there's an average salary of 6,000 - 7,000, which is hundreds of wages, what is social aid. That's why this society has tightened in crime and corruption and, above all, you from the ruling coalitions are asking your leadership to account for this abuse of social property.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13929	The word has an MP Milan Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13930	Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a budget law for 2008. The law is based on macroeconomic and financial results, which were achieved by August 2007, as well as on the 2008 macroeconomic projections, as well as on the economic policy objectives defined by the 2008 budget law. These are macroeconomic stability, steady economic growth, employment growth and population standards, the acceleration of the stabilisation and accession process to the European Union, the accelerated implementation of economic reforms and more uniform regional development. In order for some of these objectives to be achieved, such as accelerated economic development and balanced regional development, it is necessary for the state to place all its resources in function of economic development. One of the industries where these resources can be used in a rational and sustainable way is tourism. That's why the state did the Tourism Development Strategy two or three years ago. Based on this strategy, 12 master plans have been made to treat the areas of Palic, through the upper and lower Podunnova, Stara Planina, Sokobanja, Roma in Zajecar and some others. Based on these master plans since 2005, so intensively during 2006 and 2007, and the tendency is to continue in 2008, the state began to invest intensively in the tourism sector. As a result of these investments in the tourism sector, increased revenues from tourism were recorded in 2007 compared to 2006. In 2006, 250 million dollars, 2007 was estimated at over 600 million dollars. The tendency is for the next four years to rise to a billion dollars and by 2017 the revenues from tourism are as much as a billion and five hundred million dollars. Of course, all these revenues from tourism wouldn't have been if the state hadn't begun to allocate funds for subsidies to tourism infrastructure. In addition to direct revenues from tourism, however, the consequences and effects of investment in tourism are also an increase in the market price of tourism businesses in our country's territory and what is most important perhaps in this whole thing is to attract greenfield investment in those areas that are touristically attractive. Perhaps the best example of opening greenfield investment through investment in tourist infrastructure is also an example of the Old Mountain, which was long ago declared the most prospective region in Eastern Europe to invest in mountain tourism by European and world experts. However, this mountain was not treated with private capital investments until the time of the 2006 state began to invest more intensely, both in road, municipal infrastructure, as well as in tourist infrastructure, particularly in ski routes and in a ski tow installation. This year, following the completion of the master plan and after the realization of investments, of course through the 2008 budget, the Stara Planina is the focus of private investors' interests and the assumption is that in 2008, 2009 and 2010, the Stara Planina will be one of the largest construction sites in this part of Europe. In the first phase of the construction of the Stara Planina alone, it is estimated that more than 200m euros should be invested, of which 155m euros in private capital, commercial buildings and accommodation facilities, 54m in the infrastructure of the settlements themselves, and 25m to 30m in capital infrastructure, which is viewed in the access roads, in supplying quality drinking water, in a reliable waste water treatment system, as well as in the construction of electricity facilities. That is why it is very good that the Ministry of Finance in the 2008 budget balanced 2,670,000,000 dinars for subsidies in the field of tourism, of which 1.220,000,000 dinars go directly to the equipment of quality municipal and tourist infrastructure. And that, not only the Old Mountains, but all other destinations that have been processed and treated with master plans, and a total of 12. It is logical to estimate that just after the implementation of these budget funds and other destinations in Serbia that are tourist attractive will be very tempting for many who want to invest, both greenfield and brownfield investments, in our country's territory. Finally, because of this commitment by the Ministry of Finance to define some of the funds for investment in municipal infrastructure, I think it is very important that the 300 million-million-dollar appraisal that is defined for microcredits for businesses and natural persons to improve the catering offer in the tourism area, because, of course, it is necessary to take care of the local population that is in the development of tourism and in the tourism industry, it needs to find some chance for further life and for further profit. Because of all this, the G17 parliamentary group will be happy to support the budget law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13931	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13932	In accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's to give you the information for Panchevo Business Bank. It is a state bank, so according to the law, its Management Board is appointed by the Government, and since 1 October 2006, it has been made by Nenad Urosevic of the Ministry of Finance, 120 000 or 1,500 euros; Nadica Mihajlović, adviser for quality control and monitoring of the internal control process in the sector for central harmonisation of internal control, 1000 euros; Marija Pantic, assistant at the Faculty of Economics, 1,000 euros; Marija Mitić, special adviser for financial reporting of banks, 100 000 dinars or 1,200 euros; Vesna Đurić, coordinator in Belgrade Bank, 1,000 euros, Munic Snezana, came to the proposal of the Deposit Insurance Agency, whose members are DSS and SPS, the chairman of the Management Board 550,000 dinars per month, Svetlana Kavaja, 350 000 or 4.300 euros, Nenad Pajčić, a member of the Executive Board, who owns, as a member of the consortium of the firm, which provides or 320 thousand. So, the bank spends 20,000 euros a month net on profits and another 12,000 on taxes and contributions. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I have a pension check, I don't want to read the name and last name, because when I read this, this is humiliating. The amount is 4,694,14 dinars per month. You compare what an unprecedented robbery is done in our country by the ruling parties, who send their staff to such boards of directors only to take money, and look at what borders the citizens of Serbia have brought. Compare in the budget the amount allocated to the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, how much they have allocated for each of our martyrs in Kosovo and Metohija per month. No, but they also took away what they had previously given, because they allegedly have no data, they are not sure whether they carry out their work obligations, whether they live, whether they are reported in Kosovo or not. What's the difference between life in Kosovo or here at some collective center? You took the money from them, but that's why you're giving it to your members, and you're giving it to your sympathies in this way, and it has to stop. A Serbian robbery like this must no longer be allowed. I call on Serbian citizens in the next presidential election, if you want to stop this, vote for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13933	National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13934	I have a question under Rule 225 and 226 respectively. Each year, according to the Budgetary System Act, the budget is finalised on December 15th, according to the budget calendar. The component of the budget is the funds allocated to municipalities and cities for all functions performed by municipalities and cities, which are actually entrusted to them by the Republic according to different laws. In this hall, all those who follow the developments in the Assembly know that this law, once called the Law on the Participation of Municipalities and Cities in Transport and Profit Tax, is now called the Law on Transfers to Municipalities and Cities by this year. This law has caused much more attention in this room than in some other laws, for the simple reason that these laws are financed by all those day jobs to all our municipalities and cities. The law on the financing of local self-government and the law on the budgetary system opened the possibility that these funds could also be distributed to municipalities and cities under the economic policy memorandum. However, the memorandum is not a law, the memorandum is adopted by the government and MPs in the Assembly cannot affect the content of the memorandum and cannot affect the amount of those funds. My question is when will the Law on the participation of municipalities and cities in these funds allocated to municipalities and cities be found in the Assembly Hall, when will MPs be able to discuss it, because this law is the basis for all the budgets of our municipalities and cities? I got on the Finance Committee from the Secretary of State information that there's no need for this law to be passed since it's in the memo. However, the memorandum does not have the power of the law, these funds cannot be deployed only by a memorandum and the question is whether these funds can be deployed without law. My question is, when will this law come into congregation procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13935	The People's MP, Dr. Zoran Mašić, has the word, and let the MP Petar Petrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13936	Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will only talk about division 14, meaning budget projection for the Ministry of Agriculture, because as a representative of the SRS, and based on the party's determination that agriculture represents one of the most significant economic branches in our country and that the state, among other things, should also take care of the funds to be invested in agriculture. We believe that both this and all previous governments should have allocated much more resources in the budget for the development and improvement of agricultural production. We know that during last year's election campaign, some parties also took a keen stand and promised their voters they would significantly increase the Agrarian budget. First of all, I think of DS, who announced the Agrarian budget of 400m euros through the campaign. However, we know that neither the 2007 budget nor the 2008 budget is close to the figure promised. I must regret to conclude that there is currently no finance minister to hear this debate, and to hear his opinion, but here in front of you MPs and in front of citizens, I can say that the Minister of Agriculture on the Committee on Agriculture, when we discussed the Agricultural Budget, where unfortunately he was also not the finance minister, was only the Secretary of State, the Minister of Agriculture was public and clear, in front of all the members of the Committee, said that I was personally dissatisfied with the height of the agricultural budget and that he had no understanding in the government and, above all, of his party colleagues, knowing that the finance minister was from the DS. What I mean now is, I certainly have no intention of fighting the coalition, but I have to say that the previous government and the previous minister, above all I think of Mrs Ivana Dulic, although we from the SRS have had great criticism of her work and attitude towards agriculture, but every year it means that this assembly has adopted a much larger budget, i.e. there has been a greater growth in the budget, I cannot say in nominal terms, but it has been higher since the year-to-year growth in the budget. We have a total budget increase this year compared to 2007-2008 for the circus one billion and 100 million. It is particularly symptomatic that in the first version of the budget, which appeared here in the Assembly, which was divided by committee presidents, the Agrarian budget was larger by 80 million. The version of the budget that officially entered the assembly procedure, I'm talking about the Agrarian budget, is down by 80 million. In these latest party discussions and persecutions within the government, someone was looking at the farmers' budget, reducing the budget by about 80 million. According to my knowledge, these funds were transferred to public ski resorts. What is a state commitment, looking through a strategy for the development of agriculture that is under construction, where the Ministry of Agriculture defined that in 2008, the Agrarian budget is 6% of the total budget, and in 2010, the budget should be 10% of the budget. As we know, the agriculture minister is from the DS, the finance minister also, why the strategy being created, especially if it is preferred to adopt the strategy in the Assembly, when one minister and one ministry from the same party advocate one percentage of the separation for one significant social area, and the other minister does not respect it and remains in his. To repeat, this year, according to the agricultural development strategy, 6% of the budget was planned for agriculture, which would mean 36 billion dinars. What is this farm like this, this year, made for the state? It can be said that agriculture is among the small industries that have achieved the foreign surplus. So, the foreign trade surplus in agriculture, according to the Ministry's information, is between 600 and 700 million dollars. We know that it is a huge external trade deficit, however, agriculture has achieved a surplus, which should mean for this government and this country that it is a resource worth investing in, because it benefits this country in an international exchange, i.e. He's making a profit. Agricultural participation in gross national income is between 21% and 25%. Certainly in industrial and agricultural-developed countries, agricultural participation in gross national income is lower, mostly moving up to 5%. However, this much participation in gross national income in the Republic of Serbia is currently talking about its development and that it is a resource that increases this gross national income, and that is also the reason that the state needs to invest more in the area of agriculture. The third reason why this year was supposed to be a bigger Agrarian budget is the damage to agriculture caused by droughts. Among other things, in explaining the budget by the minister and vice-president of the government, it was said that this budget and budget projection were conditioned by the consequences and damages of the drought in the area of agriculture. According to data adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the total damage to agriculture from drought is at 45 billion 870 million. The largest in corn production, with 42 billion 374 million in soybean production of 571 million, in the production of sunflower 613 million, in the production of tobacco of about 200 million and in the production of sugar tails of about two billion and 136 million. In sugar tails, it's likely to be even greater damage because we have certain, and significant surfaces today, estimated to be moving up to 10,000 hectares of unbroken tail. It's a big question of whether, because of weather and climate conditions like this, they'll be able to break those tails in the first place. All in all, there are extremely great damages in the agrarian Republic of Serbia, and at the same time, no funds are provided through the budget to make certain compensations to agricultural producers on the basis of the natural disasters caused by the drought, and on the other hand, we have made certain promises to agricultural producers, because we have had certain protests by agricultural producers, precisely with a demand for compensation or compensation from the effects of drought. What does the government offer us through this agrarian budget this year? The total amount of budget for the Ministry of Agriculture, popularly called the Agricultural Budget, is 27,163,978,000 dinars. The 2007 budget of the Ministry of Agriculture was 26.095,751,714 dinars. I must say here that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture proposed by the so-called so-called The technical government, before the elections we had this year in January, the budget proposed by the technical government in October to the National Assembly, according to the proposal, was 27 billion and 900 million. He was bigger than is now proposed for 2008, which also speaks of the government's irresponsible attitude towards agrarian. On the other hand, there is no way to say that it is the development budget, regardless of what is the largest of the total subsidies given from the budget. Let's see how things are about subsidies this year and last year. The total amount of subsidies in 2007 was at 18 billion and 485 million, planned at 19 billion and 356 million this year, so an increase of only 0.9 billion dinars. This is certainly not far enough to finance what should be financed during 2008. What is essentially subsidized? The idea is to subsidise 100 euros per hectare, then subsidize or regress the use of mineral fertilisers, oil, use of declared seed, improvement of livestock and livestock measures. Unfortunately, we have a catastrophic situation right now in cattle production in our country and this can lead to inconceivable consequences in some future period, because we have the absurdity that can only occur in a country like this, with such an economic system. That in a situation where the inputs are extremely high, especially the price of corn and the price of livestock, we have a decline of live cattle, that we have in some areas, first of all in Machva and Srem, currently close to 50,000 passengers, drowned pigs, which are fed on corn that costs 20 dinars, and that the price is currently marketable, by which these pigs are bought, between 60 and 80 dinars, which absolutely leads to the loss of anyone who cultivates or feeds pigs. That's why we have mass slaughter and literally murder, both fat pigs, so unfortunately, fertilizing material. This could lead to serious problems precisely in pig production in 2008. It is not a much better situation in cattle production, where there are also high inputs, and where the price of living measures of drowned cattle is also low, in line with the price of food cost. Instead of intervention by the state and through or through the Stock Reserve Directorate, where last year about a billion dinars have been allocated to buy-in of agricultural products and where these funds have not yet been realised, buy-out part of that bull's-eye, pay-out and export that heroic meat to Europe, because we have the approval of exports to the EU of beef, we will be in a situation that in 2008 we will not have a tow hero that neither what we are given as an opportunity to export, to export, because there will be a slaughter of heroes. This country doesn't care too much, and it doesn't seem like an effort. I can't say that certain of my colleagues at the Ministry of Agriculture are not concerned about it, but there is no overall social support, primarily the support of the entire government to solve this problem. The overall budget of the agriculture ministry has been increased by a billion and 100 million dinars, however, certain administrations within the ministry are with reduced budgets, so for example, the Veterinary Administration has a lower budget for 100 million than it had in 2007. Subsidies in the ministry are lower by nearly 500 million dinars, and subsidies are paid to implement animal health programmes, specialised veterinary institutions working on the prevention of livestock infections and public veterinary services, which can lead to a difficult situation in livestock production. Furthermore, the budget of the Plant Protection Authority is lower by 18 million, the budget of the Water Directorate is lower by 26 million. Here, we have the fall as it is, it could be spring, there's the groundwater again, there's the flood again. We have not provided enough resources in the 2008 budget to address the problem of open and groundwater. That is why the agriculture administration's total budget has increased its budget by 200 million. The administration was formed last year and has the capacity to, above all, work on renting agricultural land. And we know well what kind of problems were in the issue of agricultural land and how effectively this administration worked, and in that total distribution it received some major funds within the Ministry of Agriculture. All in all, gentlemen, this budget given for agriculture will absolutely not improve agriculture. It can only lead to major problems, as this country may have to import wheat next year. Let's not forget, because of the weather conditions that were last fall, the smallest area under the wheat has been sown since the war. It is estimated to be about 400 to 420 thousand hectares. If there are bad climate conditions and the gender fails, then it will turn out that we have to import bread. Where we're going to get that money from, and how we're going to ultimately improve agricultural production, because it's what it is, but it provides the state with an external trade surplus, so it ensures that we export more than we import. I therefore appeal to the Minister, to the Government, that the amendments we have proposed in front of the SRS with attention to consideration and adoption, and amendments are aimed at increasing the Agrarian budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13937	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I just received a letter from the president of the Oliver Dulic National Assembly. The letter says "Belgrade, December 12th, 2007. Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. Your Honor, I would like to inform you this way that today, December 12, 2007, I will call elections for the President of the Republic for 20th of January 2008. Please inform all MPs of this. I would like to express my gratitude to you for the correct and constructive work on the adoption of all the laws that, in accordance with the Constitutional Law, were necessary for the vote to be called. With respect, Dr Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." Oliver Dulic, ladies and gentlemen, is currently in the House of National Assembly in Nikola Pasic Square. This showed that he wanted to humiliate all the MPs, and me, as one of the vice presidents, because this letter, which comes to me in 20 minutes before he, with the appointment and the cameras waiting for him there, obliges me to notify all the MPs. Is that normal? Why is it that the other MPs, all of you sitting in this room, do not have this letter in front of you, but some kind of exclusivity we have who are vice presidents of the National Assembly? What kind of manners is that? Already now and in the beginning, the president of the National Assembly shows what both his and the DS's intentions are. Because it humiliates us in this way, because in this way it is playing with the function and the president of the National Assembly, above all, whose role it has been all this time to promote the outgoing President Boris Tadic as a candidate in the new election race, I want to tell you -- as it is written with us and how it works, that's how Boris Tadic will pass in the presidential elections. As chairman of the SRS Forest District Committee, the party that will decide at the Central Country Administration session, which will be held in two days, will go to the presidential elections, when I received this letter, I have scheduled for tomorrow, in 1700 hours, at Kragujevac a session of the Forest District Committee and the City Committee of the SRS, confident that my Kragujevci, my fellow citizens, as well as the whole of Shumadi, will support the presidential candidate Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who will be the president of Serbia, for the joy of all citizens, not only Serbs, but also members of the national minorities and all those whose Serbia, and their country, and the future of Serbia and their children in the heart. Let Oliver Dulic do this for the honor, and I want to congratulate Mr Tomislav Nikolic on the victory he will win in the first election round today, December 12th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13939	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Munir Poturak and then the MP Vladan Batic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13940	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, dear Minister, I would only like to share the 14th part in the agricultural budget. I also confirm what Mr. Zoran Mašić is saying as a professional man and what he does and does as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture in this area. I think there's another side that can run the mechanism and employ our population with the potentials that we own in Serbia. What I wanted to point out where our strength is is is that almost 17% of the working population in Serbia is from the total population to the village, to the agrarian. For comparison, it's somewhere in the total population of three percent in France, nine percent in Hungary. Where's the productivity? In France, eight to nine times as much productivity as we do. In Hungary, there are two or three times more productivity than in our country. According to some analyses, by about 200,000 people in Serbia could be employed by some time by 2010, to make their living well and normally from their own country, where farmers, farmers, farmers, can be a tremendously strong wheel of development in this country. What's bad is that somewhere in 2005, the budget wasn't used maximum, so it suffered a budget decision in 2006, so it was less than the needs and demands were, and based on that budget, nearly 1.7 billion were increased in 2007. For us, for those people, for citizens of Serbia who depend on the country, it is good that in 2006, a good foundation was created, above all, made a tremendously good preference for EU countries and CEFTA member states. We have made this possible here by our regulations and laws towards EU countries, except for two or three products, we have duty-free exports available, and with meat and sugar, that quota is limited. Nearly 46 regulations were passed within the Ministry of Agriculture, which is a good chance, a good opportunity for our people to know they have money for them. All it takes is to organize and I think that the Ministry of Agriculture did this year and started, I hope that such a single campaign will lead and that farmers, peasants, join through cooperatives, through unions, so that they can attract as much money as possible on joint projects. What I said, I wanted to point to my countrymen from Pazar to Prepolje, the only country left to live on. They need to know that they are fully equal to all people in Serbia, that all 46 regulations have been turned towards everyone equally and that many have used, and many have been able to benefit much more. That's what this is about. She's got a hell of a lot of potential. I think the role of all 250 of us is to send a message from here to our citizens that there is a possibility, that there is a chance, that we are willing to do everything in this direction to make use of people, and to encourage them to use these things in some way with their potentials and their opportunities. In that sense, I think the Ministry of Agriculture has done enough, it can do much more, with the understanding of the government and those who decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13941	I thank the People's MP, fellow Munir. Mr. Petrovic is not here, Mr. Martic is not here. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic has appeared, and let MP Milan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13942	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when the president of the National Assembly announces the presidential election for January 20th, it seems to me that the campaign begins tomorrow and that the debate on the budget will be fully out of the question. So, Mr. Minister, you've just had no luck in this extraction, but it's not up to you, it's up to someone else to decide. On behalf of the DHSS and on behalf of the LDP MPs' club, if we stick to the constitutional law, these four laws are to be assumed to be a prescribing of presidential elections. So constitutional conditions for calling presidential elections were created. There's nothing you can take away or add. But we think it's time for parliamentary elections, for elections at all levels. Why? Because everything that happens with regard to Kosovo and Metohija, it's all a defeat of one government, it's all a defeat of one radical and irresponsible policy, one policy that has promoted an idea or a syntagm of a broad coalition capacity, which is synonym for political prostitution. As soon as there's prostitution in politics, then the balances of such marriage, such cohabitation, are the kind of relationship we have today. Why do I say that? Because at a meeting of EU ministers on Friday, and therefore the haste to call presidential elections will be announced, the EU's unique stance on recognising Kosovo's independence. So, those who took pictures every day with EU officials and every day, and here in parliament, and from the building across the street, and from the government building, from all the media, deceived Serbian citizens, that Kosovo will forever remain an integral part of Serbia, must leave. It's a matter of responsibility. Responsibility has its own pandan. That's exchangeability. These are the two basic principles of politics, the parliamentary democracy that exists in every country in the world. So, at the meeting Friday, EU foreign ministers will also come up with the view that there will be no recognitions of an independent Kosovo until the presidential elections in Serbia are held to give the democratic candidate a chance. But we have the position of the second part of the coalition government, the DSS and its president, that is, the Serbian prime minister, who said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. However, whoever, at the moment when the EU recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence as president or prime minister, is old or new, must resign at the same time and parliamentary elections must be discussed at the same time. It's the essence of parliamentaryism, it's the basis of democracy. So long as they have not fulfilled a promise, the preamble says they are obliged to preserve Kosovo. Let's see how they keep it. It's not worth the myths, the legends, it's not worth the geese. So enough presidential elections to keep Kostunica ruling Serbia. We see the balances of this rule: misery, poverty, hunger, crime, corruption, nepotism, monopolies, the most expensive basic life supplies in Southeast Europe, the failure of one policy, the institutions have not been brought to life, we still have no Constitutional Court. So as you call the presidential election, and there is no Constitutional Court, to which a complaint can be filed, which should be the regulator and the last instance to decide on any irregularities and violations of the law in the presidential elections. It's time to settle the accounts. Those who have been the ruling coalition to date must simply account for all their failures in all spheres. Serbia is the first in the region in a degree of corruption, the first in a monopoly, the first in a percentage of crime in society, the first in all negative balances. It's the product of this and this kind of government. Therefore, the presidential elections are fine, but also parliamentary, or elections at all levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13943	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miroslav Martic, let the MP of the people be prepared Nebojsa Rangelovic, and then the MP Milan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget is one of the most important laws because it determines the basic economic and economic developments, as well as the level of the standards of most citizens in the coming year. This budget is a product of macroeconomic policy for next year's government, but it is also a reflection of the economic situation that is the product of the country's long-term economic crisis and gradual recovery. DS MPs will support this budget because it is well and well done, regardless of the criticisms heard from the opposition ranks, which is quite natural and legitimate, will support it for the reason that this budget also contains a development component, but also a social security component, which protects to a good extent the standard of all citizens in Serbia. As the minister said and as you saw in the law, the planned revenues are 640 billion dinars and I don't think there's any reason to discuss this item, and I don't think the minister had any big space, because simply, the revenues are easy to plan and they're mostly known based on the budget this year, and they're 9.9% higher than the previous year. The expenditure is a little harder to plan and they are 654 billion dinars. This also shows from the budget plan for next year that the budget deficit is somewhere around 15 billion dinars. It is clear that we would all like these budget revenues to be higher, but they are a reflection of the country's economic and economic situation and I do not believe that there is some magician who could make bigger revenues. The budget surplus also came in part because of the high level of salary transferred from 2006 and partly due to wage growth that was not in line with productivity. In his opening presentation, the minister presented certain negative trends or trends that marked the previous period, not only last year, but also several previous ones. It's primarily import growth, high deficit, inflation rates are higher than planned, and it was somewhere at 9.5%. What is significant is that budget spending in this year did not affect this increased level of planned inflation rates. This inflation rate is primarily the result of an increase in energy prices, which could not be affected by either the government or the minister, or this country, and the floods that occurred in the previous year. As part of this, the minister and the government also planned certain measures that would lead to the country's economic stabilisation, above all, to retain a high rate of growth in social gross product, which was 6% in the previous year, and that is one of the largest growth rates in the environment. What is important, the finance minister and the government planned for the inflation rate to be around 6% in 2008. They also planned to reduce the external deficit, and thus the external debt will grow slower. In order to reduce the high level of consumption compared to income, the minister planned to speed up economic reforms, the formation, i.e. a consistent respect for the principles of the economic market and economic business, the completion of privatisation, which is very important by the end of 2008, and the creation of conditions or ambience for new investments, the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, or certain parts of public enterprises, the restriction of public sector wages to the level of planned inflation, which is very important. I think it was one of the inflation generators in the previous period. The control of wages in public enterprises, in state-owned public enterprises and public utility companies, because I also think that the increase in wages in these systems has in some way influenced the planned inflation rate in the previous year to be higher than we expected. Such a fiscal policy is also planned to create a favourable environment for opening new investments and all of this supports part of the laws that are under consideration after this budget law, and these are proposed amendments to tax laws. We heard from this pay phone, not only these days when the budget was discussed, but also in previous days, the request of some MPs, primarily from the opposition, to go back to the system where there is free healthcare, free education, to raise salaries in education, in the state administration, in the judiciary, and on the other hand, we heard requests here to abolish VAT on certain products, which is completely illogical. It is difficult to respect, on the one hand, the requirements for salary increases and, on the other hand, to abolish VAT on certain products. And it's practically impossible. I know they pay in the public sector, also in education and in health care, especially those who have the lowest skills, are not such as to provide a safe and good standard of employees in these sectors, but the budget is simply what it is and it is a reflection of the economic and economic situation in our country. To solve this problem, to increase wages in these sectors, there are only two or three ways. So one is to additionally burden citizens with new taxes, the other is to additionally burden the economy with new taxes and the third is to reduce the pay to individual budget users, which is practically impossible and unrealistic. What I want to say at the end is, I come from the Užičko region and I want to pass on to the minister and the government a single appeal from the pleasure area, given that Užice is one of the few and at this point the only region that has more exports than imports has a surplus of about 50m euros. At all the meetings held by the government's representatives with the businessmen of the pleasure region, and at the last meeting when he was Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, he was a request by the pleasure businesses to establish a more realistic course of dinar than the euro. I know this is in some way an immediate blow to employee standards, but in the long run for Serbia's economic stability it is unusually important for the dinar course to be more realistic and therefore to encourage exports and reduce imports. DS lawmakers will support this budget, in addition to having developmental components and enabling new investments, it has major social security elements, also protecting the level of living standards of all citizens and, most importantly, has economic stability and security elements for the next year and the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13945	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, let the MP Milan Nikolic be prepared, and then the MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13946	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, before I ask a few questions about today's subject, or about the adoption of the budget, I would say a few impressions in general about the way we've passed the laws these days and how the debate has been under way. Obviously, and today we got the answer that someone was in a hurry, because the ruling coalition and the government were not doing their job right, so the Assembly came into teat, brought into a situation that system laws, important ones, to which the Constitution bound us, and the Constitutional Law, brought late after midnight, before the weary MPs, who were unable to follow the discussion, let alone lead it. So, there was a discussion about the discussion, which will say that it was in fact – the escape from the essence and the mere satisfaction of the form, because indeed someone in the ruling coalition was in a hurry. In line with the time left at the LDP MP's disposal, which is related to the adoption of the budget law, although perhaps these issues are time and past, because today's events are past, according to what happened, and it is related to the ban on holding a conference for LDP journalists, and then to calling presidential elections under the grain, which the MPs are last informed about, so perhaps these issues are beyond time, because they are past. Similarly, the fact that the budget was discussed by experts who are members of the LDP, I would only draw out a few of their impressions, because there really is no time to read everything we discussed. Why did they consider this budget as a budget for constituency with voters? Why they said that the government rules the budget not on the basis of economic parameters, not transitions, not in line with the approximation of the European Union, but politics, read the "elections", the social circumstances that the prime minister explains – as difficult transition circumstances in which citizens need help. The proposed budget plans for inflation to be 6% next year. But it is clear that the government will not worry about inflation, but that, like this, only the National Bank will do it next year. I would further ask the question -- how does Mr. Minister assess Mr. Harold Hirschoffer's opinion, who said that Serbian government experts recommended the surplus budget, due to a large current payment deficit or a few more estimates of this budget by our experts, which say the budget announces the continuation of major public spending in 2008 and the growth of the external trade deficit, and that the 2008 budget shows that the government is not ready to implement reforms and serious cuts in the economy. Although today's events have mostly provided answers to both questions, the fact that the president of the National Assembly, the minority in secret, has called elections for the President of the Republic and according to what happened today to the LDP parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13947	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The People's MP Milan Nikolic has the word, and then the MP Radovan Milovankic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13948	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft budget law is certainly one of the most important documents with which the government comes before parliament and before the citizens of Serbia. The budget is, in fact, a clear picture of the government's intentions in terms of the overall economic policy, notably total public consumption, its structure, and the involvement of public spending in gross national income, which is important for citizens and the economy, i.e. for the country's economic perspective. The SPS believes that the responsibility, first of all, towards the voters and citizens of Serbia, is to clearly point to the government's good and bad intentions, its moves towards the macroeconomic and budgetary policy contained in this important document. Certainly, given the importance and scope of the document, it is difficult to point out in a short time any possible implications of the budget on the economy and the population, so I will look briefly at just some of the elements of the 2008 draft budget. And a superficial insight into the draft budget provides a picture of an unequal approach to different levels of information regarding certain proposals for spending planning. Some parts of the budget detail the needs and proposals for spending, especially in parts when it comes to the legal obligation of the state, while on the other hand we have expenditures in the budget, which, by reason of both intent and high amounts, simply have no explanation, because expenditure is proposed without a single word of reasoning, nor is there an indication of any legislation which obliges the state to finance such expenditures. It is characteristic in this respect of the National Investment Plan, where there is no law imposing an obligation to finance the expenditures of this plan from the budget. It would be logical if it were national, if this is an investment plan and if this is a precise plan, to be based on a specific law which, apart from the total amount of funding, would have to contain provisions on purposes, the main levers of the government's economic policy, first in the area of economic policy, and then investment in large infrastructure projects necessary for the country's accelerated development, in order to join European flows, then, as these funds are regularly allocated to achieve the objective of uniform regional development, given the markedly large differences in the degree of development of the north, central Serbia and southern Serbia. We have the end, one of them is the end and the south of Serbia, which is, by many economic indicators, such as gross social product per capita, employment rate, infrastructure development, etc., far away, even two-thirds behind the developed part of Serbia. We here, when it comes to exactly the National Investment Plan, have the condition that, without a specific budget law, significant expenditures are planned, distributed by the ministries, with insufficient meaning and definition of spending. It is clearly seen, without a specific legal basis and defined criteria, without saying how amounts were determined for individual ministries – they were simply entered into budget expenditures. I think that the argument that the funds will be spent under a special government regulation and approved projects is not enough for the government to take unnecessary risks of making such large decisions. For 2008, the budget forecasts 639 billion and 600 million dinars, and the main sources on the revenue side of the budget are tax revenues, amounting to 596 billion, almost 600 billion dinars, which you will agree is quite high. This data must be concerned about the fact that tax revenues from year to year are increasing rapidly to the burden of citizens and businesses, as budget expenditures must be covered. It also concerns the fact that in 2000 we ended up spending 52 billion, or so much as our total income, which is almost 11 times less. An open question arises, which has affected the increase of budget spending in the period from 7 to 8 years. I think that the increase in the number of taxpayers and the increase in gross social product did not go in this way compared to increased budget spending. I will say only a few recognizable factors, and that – employee expenditure is estimated at 176 billion and compared to the total expenditure of the budget, amounting to 654 billion and 400 million, on behalf of the salary and contribution, on salaries and other expenditure on employees of the state administration and on ministries, i.e. employees of state authorities and public services, almost one third of the total expenditure goes away. Information that the number of staffed budget beneficiaries in 2008 will be 259,824 must be seriously concerned. A reduction in the number of employees in the state administration is foreseen, but primarily in the area of national defence, while in other ministries this is increasing rapidly. I think this data must also be concerned that in the state administration and by the ministries there must be a serious reduction in the number of workers, in the way in which businesses are doing it when they are in restructuring. The Deputy Prime Minister himself, Mr Bozidar Djelic, presented the data that the number of employees directly in the state administration has increased from 2,000 to 28,000 people today. It should be borne in mind, though, that there are translated workers from the federal state, however, and when that number is taken we have a doubled number of workers in the state administration. The government must take vigorous measures to stop employment in the state administration and especially party employment. The government must review whether all agencies, commissions, directors, institutions, advisers must pay from the budget. Also, the government must arrange for the organisation of the portfolio and that the number of ministries is as large as it is in the environment, 14 to 16 ministries in the government. In conditions where we have the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Religion, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Sport and Youth, the allocations for various associations and organisations within these ministries, why in a rather colorful way, without detailed explanation, are allocated funds for various NGOs divided by many ministries? There are many items in the budget that can be difficult to connect to the country's legal obligations. The rights of individual ministries would rather be said, which means ministers are empowered to have large amounts of funds, which will be spent on specific programmes adopted by the government on a proposal from the ministry. There is almost no ministry that does not have such items, and in particular I repeat the items of the National Investment Plan, which are also spent on programmes for which the NIP Office responsible will decide, or as stated in Article 14. The draft budget law, which will elect projects to be financed after the government's regulation, can lead to the conclusion that large funds are spent without broad control. Many more of these could be cited. The only question arises is whether taxpayers, above all a very exhausted economy, are burdened with many other problems resulting from macroeconomic and monetary policy, and poor citizens can endure, regardless of the number of taxpayers has increased for years? It must go to a reduction in the level of tax burdens, primarily the economy where VAT is 18%. Our condition of survival and development is exports, which would stimulate employment, which can only be done if we have competitive production for foreign markets, without heavy additional burdens on all grounds. When it comes to the internal structure of expenditure, there are some illogicalities, and it's banal, but I have to list them. There are two cabinets of the government as special users, with special cash registers, the cabinet of the president and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister. In fact, for the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister, the budget is 50% higher than the Prime Minister's budget, and there is no explanation for such a proposal. The government is deciding to use funds in many budget positions for large amounts, which is not in agreement with the government's efforts to spend budget funds transparently. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development deals with the economy, regional development, employment, grants it approves, but without a specific legal obligation it should respect, as does the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which operates under specific legal rules. Article 15. The draft budget law allows expenditure on the National Investment Plan to be carried out in direct payments, compensations, assignations and the like, and for other expenditures it is not allowed, which is wrong if the reasons why it is so are not explained. Article 14 provides that the resources for the National Investment Plan are spent in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and gives the impression that the other expenditures do not have to be spent under this law. There is also a dilemma of how much budget expenditure is, and hence, the size of the deficits. If the expenditure of the 2008 budget is 654 billion, it says on page 1. The proposal, what about the part relating to guarantees so far issued, as well as guarantees yet to be issued in 2008: 66 billion, page 3, Article 3, as a single project loans of around 58 billion, page 5, point b) of the proposal. If these two amounts are added to the projected 654 billion, then expenditure increases to 778 billion. In any event, the SPS considers that the budget burdens of 654 billion dinars on a gross social product of 2.779 billion, as forecasted for 2008, are high, that the objectives foreseen by the Memorandum, at least for 2008, will be very difficult to achieve. to be able to achieve an increased employment rate, reduce poverty, maintain projected inflation to 6% and ensure a decline in public and personal consumption. Co-ordinated economic and fiscal policy measures, the government must continue to work on achieving the projected growth of the gross social product by at least 6%, continuously reducing inflation, speeding up structural reforms in terms of the completion of privatisation and state-owned enterprises and strengthening the private sector, improving the business climate and creating a competitive environment, reducing public expenditure and correcting regional disparities, creating an efficient administration, creating conditions for annual export increase at a minimum of 25%. Of course, there are 425 billion in the budget, as far as I've calculated, the social part. The Development Fund and the National Investment Plan should be separate components. I understand the finance minister, he found the situation in the best possible way in the budget, but I think it is necessary for the government, and the social consensus that two important things are fully respected, which is the growth of the gross social product and the reduction of inflation to the extent that is planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13949	I thank the People's MP, Nikolic. Before we give the word to Mr. Milovanovic, we have two Rules of Procedure. Mr. Free Maras and Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13950	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 104. Rules of Procedure. What she read earlier, Miss Jovanovic, that letter, I really think is an insult to this parliament and all MPs, means the way the president of the Parliament has been treating lawmakers in the last few days, for God's sakes in recent weeks is extremely irresponsible and incorrect. The fact that he lost his compass, unfortunately it's not just his problem, it's the problem of both these congregations and all of us. We must seek responsibility for Mr. Dulic. Who's he representing? I highly doubt that the citizens believe that he represents only DS, he is the president of this assembly, the first among us, but also his behavior, every day comes to this assembly for an hour or two, breaks the Rules of Procedure ten times and then leaves. Today, we have not been honored by any arrival in this room, but it is the custom for it to send secret letters, or to send letters, as it has sent to the president of our party, as it has sent to the MPs today, or to every MP's club. I am sure, or we in the LDP, we are sure that citizens will recognize the policy that makes a compromise on everything, meaning that it is ready for every compromise just to remain in power. I'm sure he'll recognize and it's not a policy that anything in this country can fail, and this budget can't be adopted, to move on to temporary funding, because clearly there will be no more normal debates and normal sessions here. So anything to do just to keep the president of the state. It is quite evident that the policy currently being led has caused a storm in the ruling coalition and whether Mr. Dulic will still appear here as president, we will see it in the coming days, since there are indications that coalition partners are already starting his shift, and that is not our problem. Our problem is where this country goes. Of course, there's no one here from the Democratic Party of Serbia, there's an MP here from G17, and it's obvious we're falling into a situation that fits only someone. So we won't have a safe budget. Because, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to explain, I know you're not to blame for this, but to explain how we're going to be able to end this debate, to discuss the amendments and to vote for the budget in this situation. That's why I'd like to say that I'm sure the citizens will recognize a policy that is quite different from this mundane and policy that is ready to compromise with Kostunica. He will give his vote to Cedommir Jovanovic in the first round presidential elections. You, Miss Jovanovic, came out, but I have to fix it a little, because she ran off with that congratulations to Mr Tomislav Nikolic in the first round. I'm deeply convinced that we'll meet in the second round and then see who's better.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13951	I thank the People's MP, Slobodan Marash. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13952	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say again and appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, I hope that unlike the President of the Assembly, you are, as an impression, a kind of voice of reason. So the Constitutional Court is due to be established on December 17th. The Constitutional Court has not yet been established. Judges of the Constitutional Court have not yet sworn an oath; December 17th will be established... Ma'am, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, There's no Constitutional Court. He hasn't been established, four other judges of the Constitutional Court haven't been cleared, former or former, however you wish. Why am I saying that? Because the electoral action begins at the time of the election and in order to declare a complaint to one of the electoral actions, there must be a Constitutional Court. It's the very fact that the election was called today, and the Constitutional Court was unconstitutional, that the judges of the Constitutional Court didn't take an oath... They passed, well... Unconstituted, 17 will be established. So the electoral actions are flawed. Mr. Chairman, since the coalition partner of the DSS, this is quite reliable information, will launch an initiative to replace the former president of Mr. Oliver Dulic's Assembly, who, frankly, is better off resigning himself because he was not able to handle this function, by spending money from the budget with a bunch of consultants and bodyguards for completely pointless travels on which he didn't speak a word. So, by definition, since it is hard for a new president to be elected, you will again, as the oldest of the vice-presidents and the oldest MP, in this difficult time, be acting or chairing in this House. I know, Mr. Mrkonjic, that, depending on the outcome of the Security Council's decision, the SPS is likely to propose you as a presidential candidate if you get by their decision the conditions for calling presidential elections. I also hope that you will support Cedomir Jovanovic in the second round, because the younger world remains, but we live, unfortunately, in difficult times and this would be a bit comical, and a little cheerful, if we were not surrounded by the cruel reality in which Serbia is today. It's no time for jokes and laughter at all. Serbia is at risk of losing part of its territory due to an irresponsible government that has deceived citizens that Kosovo will remain forever ours. Read in the Constitution the obligation and oath of the President of the Republic. What does he say in the oath he takes? When he is elected, no matter what his name is, I am not alluding to Mr. Boris Tadic, he has only made a mistake in supporting Vojislav Kostunica, because whoever is planting pumpkins with the devil is banging on his head. You'll see that very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13953	I thank Dr Vladan Batic, the MP of the people. The word has a folk MP Radovan Milovankic, let the MP Dusan Bajatovic be prepared. I thank you for these kind words.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13954	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Minister Cvetkovic, how which MP comes up with all the issues better than the better. Now this comes in kind of a therapeutic level of importance for the budget, but good. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the outset, I will refer to the opening presentation of Minister Cvetkovic. So, it is unequivocally stated in the statement that the public sector and consumption, as a rule, will be financed through the budget, which would say, is not invented hot water, but rationality or irrationality will show its true face, and in the aforementioned location of the resources you mentioned, the ministers, or the security of funds for the financing of the public sector, will open up and open up, based on the draft budget, the question of whether this will ensure the fairness of economic life. Two predecessors from the SRS said they would not and I do not believe that this will simply happen from the legacy of democracy, which is the external trade deficit of a large and high unemployment rate, it is impossible to apply budget instruments, and to redistribute them, for the basic reason that this budget is not brought on an economic but on a political principle. The principle of general public and budgetary balances are almost unimportant in your presentation. The way the government works, along with the resolution ministry, shows almost that the budget can be called a profit-based political account, and never covers expenditure. Minister, you almost didn't mention it, you're almost not, in just one sentence, that the state collects funds through secondary distribution instruments, and that's exactly what the full budget is all about. But the other thing is when it's empty, then we have experts before politics in action. Let's get off this platform of theory and get into something concrete, in Article 3. The draft budget law, the Republic of Serbia, will issue a guarantee of one item, so 2,350,000 euros for the project of recovery and dump in Srnj, is in Kruševac dumps and biogas exploitation. The first part of the disposal project is not disputed for us. The proposal does not say, but we know from the material that we own that it is 960,000 euros and we welcome the initiative to address the problem of recovery and remediation of the dump, but it is a controversial exploitation of biogas. We have no example of such exploitation in Serbia and it is simply not sad that it would be a funny explanation for the director of the Public Communal Enterprise, who said that the exploitation of biogas is needed, so I will almost quote, for the reason that the combustion of biogas produces electricity in order to heat plastics and produce early vegetables at the dump. Furthermore, as regards Article 5, I would like to ask you, if you can only answer later, whether the funds for the operation of the Trade Court in Kruševec and the water inspector for Rasinski County are provided for in Article 5. If it's a promise that's been made, and it's not meant for by means, I don't know why it's being promised, and the funds aren't foreseen. If the funds are provided, then someone seems to know before the MPs and before the vote that it will be done for the Kruševac. Fourthly, what was the basis for half a billion dinars of funds taken from the budget to be directed towards the payment of services under contract in Chapter 12, 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6. It's customs administrations, tax administrations, money laundering prevention, tobacco management and gambling management. I'm asking this question because one person manages these five administrations, and two of them are unequivocal and mobs. I remind you of tobacco and customs. In the same Article 5, a major impact of NGOs on budget writing is seen, where 480 million dinars are given to individual projects. I very clearly want to separate the initiatives of individual NGOs from what needs to be done for special categories of the population. So, we welcome, I say very clearly, every initiative to solve the problem of people with special needs, and this is in economic classification 481. You can see that, and I'm asking you to check it out for this year. So, who competed and in what way with the Social Innovation Fund, where special projects, say house service, living room etc. You'll see a series of irregularities that have occurred, and I don't know how some people's right to apply for budget use, and unequivocally, the investigative authorities are almost on the verge of launching initiatives against them. Furthermore, there are more pearls in that Article 5. In chapter 54, point 12, it concerns the Racine Management District. So, the administrative district is located in Krusevec, it is not disputed 165,000 euros for its maintenance, they are probably real needs, but it is simply funny to demand 940,000 dinars for repair in one position. I want to tell you that they moved into new rooms four months ago. It is not normal for 12,000 euros to be taken, and in four months, paint has not even dried in the rooms. In an explanation, five points will be explained by the MPs of the SRS, and I will explain this sixth - even and regional development. You know, there's one instrument that measures even regional development. This is the ratio of the largest city in the country or in some area and how many of the following cities fill the population. To take an example for Slovenia, there is a relationship one to 12, and with us the number one to 28, which will say that the size, space and power of Belgrade's potential from the next 28 cities in Serbia is equal. The trend since 2000 has been at the expense of Serbia as a whole, and for the benefit of only Belgrade. I cannot simply take the opportunity to support the initiative of SRS MPs, Mrs Lidija Vukicevic and Branimir Djokic. This is a big problem, it seems to be happening in the shadow of the presidential election. I just don't want to believe that you deliberately brought the riot into 200,000 privates, i.e. entrepreneurs in Serbia, who are supposed to think about whether in 2014 what has happened in the last 7-8 years will happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13955	The word has been given by MP Dusan Bajatovic, and Mr Krstin, the MP of the people, will be prepared. Here, you have 10 minutes, follow the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13956	Comrade Mrkonjic, I must say I am very dissatisfied with your waste of time in this assembly. You're an SPS candidate for president of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13957	I didn't really know, I didn't get the letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13958	I would officially like to tell both you and the citizens of Serbia. Don't waste any more time, you have no greater interest in defending this government and power than yourself. This shows that the time has come to consider which political elite, which political programmes, including the need for statehood of those who lead the state of Serbia, which should give priority to people, personalities, political organisations and what political concept. As for the SPS, we didn't happen to run for Mr. Mrkonjic. What the citizens recognize as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is, he likes to say the builder, and the builder is the same as the creator.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13959	Mr. Bayatovic, it's not a subject. The subject is the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13960	Mr. Grouchy, you, unlike some others, have nothing to be ashamed of, Mr. Grouchy. Mr. Mrkonjic, Mrs. Jovanovic, has accepted and, as you know, will be the great opponent of Tomi Nikolic and Boris Tadic, and I am absolutely sure that LDP spokesman Mr. Vladan Batic, who announced your candidacy, will invite LDP voters to vote for you in the second round. Of course, the aim of this little introduction was to inform the public that the SPS had its candidate, that he was called engineer Milutin Mrkonjic, that he was branded enough and that he was praised enough and loved enough that I didn't have to explain it specifically. My intention is to invite all Serbian citizens to put a finger on the head and think about who they're going to vote for. Why? Because today's meeting also shows that after the adoption of this set of laws, which allowed the opposition under the Constitutional Law, and the creation of conditions for calling elections, nothing matters anymore. It is only important how new relations will be arranged in the ruling coalition and who will be Serbia's president. Kosovo in the second plan, the macro-economic policy in the second plan, the fight against crime allegedly in the first plan, as elections are coming. Who is the important budget today? As we can see, the ruling coalition MPs, except for a few DS colleagues, seem to be on a mission, on the ground, and we are now talking about this for the citizens. The opposition here today is talking about citizens. You know what that shows? That we need choices at all levels. Whether the SPS will participate in the elections for Serbia's president and in the likely province elections will be decided after the Security Council session 19, and I also want to inform the public. Look, we haven't adopted the budget. I'm not even getting into the fact that this budget has a lot of flaws, which is the fruit of a compromise in the coalition itself, which he doesn't have a development component, which is insufficient for Serbia's reform. Neither Cvetkovic nor Nikola Tesla, nor Microsoft with all their programs, can drain more out of dry drenina, so it is the consumer budget. We don't have a business. Investments from the budget, the ones that should be, are based on how they moved and the big bosses Tadic, Kostunica, Velja Ilic and Dinkic agreed, wherever you get your way to the crew, wherever you make a promise, whatever you can do, make a ski resort instead of a mine, instead of a railroad we'll do not know what or similar things. So the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been allocated and that is a deep impression not only of us sitting here in the Assembly watching the settlement of ruling parties, but also of the figures. It's not just that we're going to give 177 billion for the administration, which in the time of the Information Revolution has greatly increased, and its efficiency has fallen significantly. We're not going to joke with the workers, so we say in the judiciary we've received 5,000 people, and now we're going to fire 2,000 of them, that the likes of them who stay have bigger salaries. Is that solving social problems? As far as we're concerned, Vladan Batic is a lawyer for the soldiers who died for this Serbia. It's a shame for this country. That's where we are. We agreed to work until 2:00 p.m., a few of us left here will be a little tortured by Minister Cvetkovic. There's even a man who likes it. We're going to try to show some numbers, and what about the state of Serbia, what about the people's interests? Instead of adopting the budget, we have passed a law on local self-government, that we have passed a law on territorial organisation, that we have made stable conditions, and I am not talking about what will happen to Kosovo and Metohija, because we do not have a report in this House, and the question is, after this, whether or not it will be, because elections are the most important. I believe it will be, otherwise it would be terribly irresponsible. I hope he'll be honest, and he'll be honest, and he'll tell us what's really going on, not that he's reporting from the media. So that's what this is about. This speaks of the responsibility of a political elite holding power in Serbia. I have no doubt it was difficult to agree these three times-changed figures, because as we happen to come from 10.2 billion on the Transport Committee, from the initial debt of public enterprises to 40 billion, it doesn't matter, but we're going to turn that into a public debt, etc., so someone is rebelling about what an external auditor is going to do to us. We need an audit, but not these imposed audits, but real audits to see where the money of the Serbian state really was spent. If someone spends two budgets in advance of their ministry, then we should ask what's going on here. I don't want to call Velija Ilic. I don't want to call new Serbia either. My goal is to name everything that's going on between us. The people are watching this. What kind of political elite are we? We're talking about people's interests here, talking about reforms. What's Cvetkovic going to reform with eight billion? The question is, what is our G-di-pi (GDP), is it really 25-30 billion, as it says, or less? Why is the budget 53% of that? Something about those numbers is wrong. Where are our terms for greenfield investments? Where are our strategic investment plans? How are we going to do Corridor 10 without engaged priorities? What about Corridor 7 called Dunav, a colleague of Mrkonjic, who should be Serbia's future president, could speak much better than I. We didn't use the Danube coast at all. Ashes if we'd taken it from 2000, so if we'd been digging from Saturday to New Sad, another tape would have been done and it's a shame it wasn't done. The rapid railways, as far as I know, are the plan of existing and current authorities, such as the plan and previous authorities. As far as I know, Mr Milivojevic, you should be an expert on this, that is the EU requirement, that the railways in Serbia be in line with those needs, and you know that, as we do. You don't like the name - fast tracks, you'll call them - a lot of good stripes. You beat them all you want, just do them. If you want, say, a good example of why we didn't withdraw some loans, we didn't buy cars, so we lost one-third of the cars, that's what we were talking about at a session of the Traffic and Connections Committee. If I don't, so as not to steal time, gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to speak to those who are watching us now, but I want to address you. The point is that an election cycle has been launched in Serbia. After this unilateral act of DS, at least that's what it seems to me, I am absolutely sure that one-sided moves and other coalition partners will follow, which could be the introduction to the crisis of government in Serbia when we need it the least. Our political responsibility lies in bringing the crisis to an end, if possible, by political agreement, and the responsibility of Serbian citizens stems from one of the definitions of democracy, which says democracy is a rule over the people, with the consent of the people. I urge the citizens of Serbia to put their fingers on the line and to consider what we agreed to and whether we still want to take it. Mr. Chairman, I congratulate you and wish you a good election result.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13961	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. I ask the People's MP, Milorad Kristin, to take his word and continue the discussion of the budget. Let MP Vlado Sekulic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13962	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are witnessing the behaviour of the president of the Assembly and the DS, from which he is in the ranks, when the most important law on the agenda is the one government that endures, and that is the draft budget law for the year 2008 of the Republic of Serbia. It is becoming more and more important to him than to see this law end the way it ends in normal parliaments. But it's impossible and it's already smelled in the air, while we're already presenting this law to Minister Cvetkovic, since we've seen that no one from the government is here, there is no Prime Minister, there are no ministers, because all these ministries are here in the budget that you've proposed. And this is an indicator, another Serbian citizen, that when you leave January 20th, you will take care of who will lead you and who will think about you. If for a law like this that is before us no one has honored the DS, and the President of the Assembly has already gone faster or better to declare the elections for January 20th, I see no reason to address you, Minister, as Minister of Finance, if I'm going to talk about division 14, and this is about the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. What can I tell you, Minister, when you talk to your assistant all the time and there is no Minister Milosavljevic who should have told my colleagues before me about this division 14 to answer. Therefore, Ministers, you personally participated in the draft budget and you are the culprit, as the Minister himself on the Committee on Agriculture said, that you denied him 80 million, which you directed to the Ministry of Tourism. And that ministry needs it, clearly, but don't you realize that agriculture, that an individual agricultural producer, a pair, a peasant, is still the one who holds the priority, because agriculture is the branch of the economy that carried this Serbia on its back during sanctions. How about when you deny the budget, that 80 million, when the budget deficit is 14.8 billion. What to tell these farmers, the tormented, that this year the drought hit, as in 2003, that they are thinking about what to do in spring. You should know, Minister, and as a member of the board in the last session of the X times here I was saying that these loans, short-term, long-term and non-refundable, must be paid attention to who you give to. You must, especially the Minister of Agriculture, put on long-term and non-refundable loans. On more than one occasion we asked to be delivered, in the districts, who got a long-term loan, who got a grant loan. And today, for who knows which time, I ask the question to be delivered, and the answer is always because it is not there, because the ministry will never forward it. What do you say, Minister, if you're here, i.e. The Minister for Agriculture, the Agrarian Budget's funds, aimed at, say, building in the country an efficient agricultural sector that can compete on the world market, contributing to the rise in national income. I don't see if we're close to the European market, and it doesn't seem like we're close to the world market yet. We still have at least 100 laws to pass to get just a little closer to that, as you wish, to the European Community, which will declare Kosovo's independence there after 20 January, you great friends of yours. And we have to pass standards laws, there's that EUROPAD, HCCP, ISO HASAP, etc. It's only one part of the ones I listed. What about where you listed - to provide support for the sustainable development of the village? How will you maintain the development of the village when you reduce this budget by 80 million dinars? How will that farmer, who was struck by drought this year, repay that long-term loan when he can't even repay what he invested as an agrotechnical measure for the processing of his land? What to say about these agricultural producers who, for three or four months, have to apply agritechnical measures, go out to the field, buy corn, buy sunflower seeds, soybeans, buy fertilizer, have fuel, and for that in this spring part, you can say freely, doesn't count. It's not done, for the simple reason that a farmer must first buy fuel, prepare that land, and then that fiscal bill to send it to the ministry, so that who knows when to get that money back next year. It's called regressed fuel for farmers. What about the seed, when those who need to buy it, which is an individual agricultural producer, can't, but simply take it from an intermediary between, say, the oiler, making a contract by making land, which is sowing corn, instead of 10 hectares, make a contract for 20, take protection, take the fertilizer, and then, when it's carrying out the product, it'll show up like this year, that it can't go back, that it can't return the loan that you've prolonged. Minister Milosavljevic said on TV that this drought will make him do some good will, so he will extend short-term loans, instead of returning in the spring of 2008, to return for 2009. You've made such promises, gentlemen, every time before some elections, and now you're making those promises before these new elections, which you've called without thinking about whether this country needs a budget, whether these citizens need a 2008 budget, where they can still be protected. It is important to you that, as you think about it, you get the president of Serbia back from the DS ranks, and I am ordering you from this pay phone -- the people of Serbia have already done a good job on you, gentlemen of the democratic bloc. The next president of Serbia on January 20th, St. John's Day, to my saint, will be Tomislav Nikolic of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13963	The word is made by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the assembly, she advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13964	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting by article 31. As vice-president of the National Assembly, as Oliver Dulic, Mr Bajatovic, you see, he tasked us with informing the citizens of what his job was to inform every MP, along with the announcement that he, as you know, had called elections for the president of Serbia for January 20th, I will tell you that you had a good guessed earlier, but what you had at the level of the assumption, is actually true. The DSS issued a statement, which is currently being broadcast on all the agency news and on the electronic media. They say in the statement that DS has violated the coalition agreement and that they will, therefore, strongly retaliate with these "yellows" after 19, namely St Nicholas and the SB UN session. I believe that in the January 20th elections, Serbian citizens will strongly retaliate by voting for Tomislav Nikolic for Serbian President; I believe that the DSS members, too, will speak of this two months ago, as I come from the middle from which Serbian future President Tomislav Nikolic encourages me. For tomorrow, at the meeting of the district board and the city committee of our party in Kragujevac, his candidacy is also scheduled, i.e. to refer the candidacy to the Central Country Administration, which will decide on Friday whether we will have a candidate for president. I believe that we will also be in agreement with the fact that tomorrow and officially coming from the party authorities from Kragujevac that Tomislav Nikolic, as a man who is as chairman, until these others have turned the turkey upside down, five days to the Serbian Parliament, showed that he is a true and true Democrats, that he respects the values of this country and this people, that he appreciates the value and value of every citizen of Serbia, regardless of which political party he belongs, that this is the man who, as a national MP, has left the greatest mark in Serbia's legislative area in renewed multilaterality, and that this man, above all, is high moral. Remember, on the night of this government's vote, collected with a stake and rope, those who now cannot be seen and accused of breaking agreements, Mr Tomislav Nikolic told one truth, and that truth is his main argument and victory, and that is what every Serbian citizen will do from the heart when he rounds his name on the ballot. He said, first of all, because he saw the frauds involved in Serbia's leaders today, because he knows it as a man of the people, that he is an honest man and that an honest man can be deceived, but that is why Serbian citizens cannot cheat, I urge them to come out and vote proudly for Toma Nikolic as president of Serbia on January 20th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13965	National MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Let's not talk about the election anymore, let's work, let's show that we're a serious parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13966	Mr. Grouchy, I see you want to introduce yourself as a serious man and it's going well with your hand. You are, in my opinion, the most effective vice president in this assembly. Obviously at this point, when we don't have a government, they knew who they were supposed to leave the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in their hands because you're going to keep it for Serbia, because you're going to keep it for the citizens, because you're going to keep it because you're an honest and honorable man and because you care about all these values. Why did I answer that? As you can see here, except for Miss Natasha Jovanovic... (President: Which member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bajatovic. ) Article 104, indent 2. Tell me what I did wrong. ) You have not done anything wrong, but I am talking about the dignity of the National Assembly, and you will eventually learn both this and that other Rules of Procedure, which allows you to work in that building over. So, what's the point here? I really don't want to argue with anything, I just want to say the following thing: that strange things happen on the political scene of Serbia. And last time I said that in a deal between the main opposition party- the SRS, I don't mean anything ugly, nothing mean, nothing evil, and DS, that elections will be called. At this point, two of the biggest parties -- DS and the SRS are assessing, because someone must give some legitimacy, Kostunica's boycott cannot be effective if the SRS participates in the elections, and it participates, as we will, if everything is okay with Kosovo and Metohija. This is nothing ugly, and don't get it wrong. Why did I come out? To reiterate the importance of us sitting here, who are the legislative authority and who should be the highest authority in Serbia, besides the executive and judicial authorities, bearing great responsibility. Why? Obviously, people, I'm saying this for the sake of the public, that Serbia is ruled by a partyocracies. This is what, in its essence, is essentially dangerous to democracy, dangerous to the order of society, so in conclusion, we have even come to the conclusion that in the application of democracy we have formed absolute system frameworks for corruption. The most important thing to do is to get the gentlemen on the hook, and what's gonna happen to the state, we'll see about that. Everyone has a candidate. The citizens are looking at all this and thinking about everything. Once again, I want to repeat the definition of democracy and call on us to think about it. So democracy is the rule of the people, with the consent of the people. By going to the elections, we choose what we agree to, and my call refers to the next thing, to look at what we have agreed to in Serbia, and to establish a new political will, and I am absolutely sure that there will be elections at all levels next year, sooner or later, to put our finger on the front and think carefully about which policy options we vote on. I don't mind a single political party. They are all legitimate and legal, except for those who advocate to take away Serbia's Kosovo and support the force policy applied here by the international community. Everyone else is legal, legitimate, they have the right to their own policies, they have the right to everything, from demagogy to true story. Whatever he wants. I call on voters to think this through when they go to the polls on January 20th. Milutin Mrkonjic, engineer, builder, SPS proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13967	I thank Mr. Bajatovic, except for these words, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vlado Sekulić, let's go work on the budget. Let the MP Nebojsa Stefanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the 2008 budget is 10% higher than the 2007 budget, with a deficit of 14.8 billion dinars. It is a poor budget that relies on the theory that the necessary funds will be replaced through sales, privatisation, loans and donations. When calculated mathematically, there is a figure that 12 percent needs to be singled out and replaced by the deficit. We're already starting with a minus. Along with all these arguments that the DS colleagues spoke, and Mr. Cvetkovic, and Mr. Vujadinovic explained and tried to explain to us that this budget is good and that the results are extremely good. When you read this more seriously, you're completely collapsing with what it says. It is based on macroeconomic developments in the period and is seen in January-August 2007 and there is a starting point for the 2008 budget and it says: in January-August 2007 a favourable macroeconomic movement, high growth in economic activity and exports, imports; imports in particular, Mr Vujadinović, I am apostropheming you, as we have lagged last time. The budget continues as well as the 2007 budget. It protects the import lobby that we have always claimed, all MPs of the SRS, that the 2007 and 2008 budget corresponding to the import lobby and that many earn on the import lobby through the dinar course, and that the artificially made course of the dinar, that the real price of the euro is then the exporters could already mate and go. That's where we agreed, and then we all agreed. It continues: exports, imports and profits. That's where you boasted. Now it goes along the way, if anyone reads, 'the exception is the accelerated inflation of March and the high external trade deficit'; it is that imports and exports and it is seen that 'high external trade deficit that has been generated already with the growth of demand due to fiscal expansion in the fourth quarter of 2006, and then by the accelerated growth of profits especially in the public sector. The growth of domestic and foreign loans in the first eight months of 2007 has contributed to increasing domestic demand above the level of business activity and external trade deficit. ''When we talked and talked about the estimated real growth of the gross social product of seven percent and the inflation rate was planned eight and a half percent, so the minister today even said nine percent. After this announcement that there will be presidential elections and there will be over 10. Last time we talked about it being a double-digit inflation, because now it's going to go, come on, it won't bother anyone to stand up, from the president, from you in the government, you're going to pay a raise and all that's going to go away, inflation will take its toll. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I will take a classic example and explain it, since these figures, if all the figures were counted, are rarely who would commit themselves to it and understand the essence. If we were to observe that one is an average Serbian family, and one is employed, 150 to 200 euros. If they were to have, as is available in this budget, it would mean that they are to direct, rent, to educate the child and to have to spend 200 euros a month on nutrition, and have 150 euros on income. Then, according to this, as it stands in the budget, the state will sell through privatisation and sell out NIS and everything else it has to sell out, and when it's sold out, the question is what happens next. Then every host should take one thing out of his house and sell it so he can feed his family. With a chain reaction, it would go month after month and eventually run out of apartment and no income for the existence of your family. That's how it happens with this budget. It's been translated into this budget, the sale of public social enterprises, and then it's going to stay -- what, it's not going to be anything. The only thing left is these big corporations, foreign corporations, and these tycoons that showed up on our market. The evidence is that the receiving of the Republic's budget of 89,306,246,227 dinars will finance the principal's payment and the purchase of financial assets, and in fact, the net net financing of the budget will be only 14,828,000,000. I say, what happens if that privatisation you're planning and these economic indicators aren't right. Most of all, it is seen that VAT money, company profits, and citizens' salaries are being deposited in the budget. What's gonna happen after this? I don't know why you have perspective forecasts that the economy is on the rise, and everything's going, import, export, everything's going better. I see you've been shrinking, all of which you've managed to reduce what you could reduce in those percentage parts. But it doesn't make sense, because realistically, if we looked at all of this, if we looked at it realistically, the economy was totally collapsed. Here it's expected that a huge inflow of money will be from corporate tax, I just don't know which, that new jobs will be opened and that everything else will be right. I watched, in order for everyone to be clear, this illogical function. I've seen our external debt, too. I am now in my position that because of the strong duties of the state that are seen in the budget, we are constantly in debt and we are giving guarantees, that we are taking new loans for some new programmes, where these funds are being pooled and how they are coming together, and in line with what has been said by distinguished colleague Jorgenka Tabakovic, this budget has been written for special ministries and for the special people who run these ministries, so that there is peace in this coalition, and now it seems that neither this budget nor this money will be able to reconcile because of the statement that Ms. Natasa Jovanovic made by the DSS. Daily borrowing leads to a secure debt crisis in this country, i.e. our Republic of Serbia. I've been looking at the functions for whom what's specified. A dramatic example, in order for all citizens to know that 254,470,000 were allocated to the government's air service, and for the safety of health at work is only 13.930,000, and I link this to the fact that the budget fund for the programme and the protection of the improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities is 51,000,000. Now you see, when we connect these two things, how much we think about health and people who work and directly participate in the cycle of production, that for one government airline, several times more isolating funds than for them. The cabinet of the Prime Minister costs 59,449,000 and the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister 91,000,000. There is even greater separation for the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister, so an opinion is being imposed on who the first man is now, whether the Duke of Meridian Bank is Mr Djelic or Prime Minister Kostunica. The secretariat costs more 336.000,000, the president of the Republic of 147.000,000. When you look at these separations and when you look at social separations or what my esteemed colleagues were talking about agriculture, because this country has to rely on agriculture, that's what's left of it only healthy and clean, and that all of Serbia can live on, that's something that's symptomatic, that public spending funds and functions are much bigger than something to invest in. As other colleagues speak, I'll end up here. We've submitted a lot of amendments and we'll continue to discuss it. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I want you to be second in the first round, as Mr. Nikolic will surely be first, over 50 per cent. I wish you good and successful results, as they have told you, but it is known that Mr Tomislav Nikolic will win the benefit of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13969	On that behalf, Mr. Vlado, thank you very much. We have to report to the Rules of Procedure. The first is Vladan Batic, please, I love it when younger people respect the elderly, even if it's past the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13970	Mr. Chairman, you are already stalking the new role of Parliament's president, to the joy of your natural coalition partners, the SRS and the DSS. I'm always in favour of establishing order, because in this country there's got to be a final order, and those who don't want order to say it -- we don't want the order, we want the ringishipil, every day it spins, come in, get out of that ringishipil, but then it's not the state. The worst is when those who are destroying the state appear here as protectors of the state. The state defends itself by voting for the things that are real and that are possible, by exposing its reserves, by its criticisms, but also by offering an alternative. If this isn't voted, then what will be voted - nothing. "For another year, you will dream, and another 10 years, and another 100 years, as the rose of thorns, waiting for her prince to wake her. fairy tales have passed, this is a real life and take responsibility for yourself as real politicians in a real country or, brother, get off the political scene, so go and sleep in some fairy tale. ''Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, dear colleagues from the DS, said these words from this pay phone in 2002 by late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. The only problem is that by creating this coalition and forming this government, you caught yourself in a kosara wheel with this Tronov Rose. You let the drone be the commander of the parade and then, of course, it all comes back to you as a boomerang. You heard a statement from the Democratic Party of Serbia that Oliver Dulic's decision is a unilateral act. They have already become accustomed to this "single act" that is an association to the upcoming decision of the Albanian parliament, or the Kosovo parliament with Albanians, then say that you have violated the coalition agreement, because, according to your valuable and important coalition agreement, decisions on all important issues must be made by consensus. The third thing they said was that the DSS would announce its decision to the public after the December 19th Security Council session. That decision, ladies and gentlemen, is a government reconstruction. You accepted everything, caught yourself in a wheel with drones and Trno's Rose, accepted Velje Ilic, Jocic and Mihajlov, and Sarančić, and I don't know everything, Tijanic and Jocic. Yesterday we see Mr. Gilas laying the foundation with a cup of brandy with Velja Ilic, a fairy tale, just like "Tron Rose." Well, then the price has to be paid. I am sorry that Mr. Cvetkovic will be a minister for just a week, he is a decent man and somewhat verifiable in what he does.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13971	Don't, Mr. Batic, you're a gentleman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13972	I commend Mr Cvetkovic, unlike most incompetent and rude ministers, Mr Cvetkovic is a decent man. So, I said before, who with the devil's pumpkin plantings, he's got his head pounding. It's no problem what happens to you. The problem is what will happen to Serbia and its citizens when the government is reconstructed and when we formally return to some time before October 5, 2000. Then, ladies and gentlemen, you'll have to take your share of responsibility because you've made an account without an innkeeper. That's not the policy of the man whose words I read at the beginning of this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13973	I thank the People's MP Dr. Vladan Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras called. Here you go. Let him prepare Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we've just been able to hear it through the media, or read on the agency's website a statement from the DSS. I have to say that until a moment ago I was in one belief, and now I'm sure of one thing -- that statement is a complete farce and that statement is, I can say, free to say, shame and mocking the citizens of this country. However, this vote for January 20th is all the fruit of Prime Minister Kostunica's agreement with President Tadic, or their parties. On December 19th, we received a statement from the DS that is threatening, conditionally said, to the DSS that they will somehow react afterwards. Unfortunately, the government in this country is a set of individuals who have made mutual compromises just for the sake of their own and personal interests. We've come into a situation where who knows what time, so for the second time, we're literally choosing between two or more Kostunica's candidates. Fortunately, there is another policy that differs from that and that advocates a different Serbia. It's a policy that is personified by the LDP president who has run for president. These elections, unfortunately, were called to make no difference in Serbia. The same thing that happened before last republic's elections is happening now -- the desire not to change anything in Serbia and to stay in this living mud. It's not enough to say, as some say - don't vote for Nikolic, vote for me. That's not enough. You have to offer a different policy, some quality policy. It is not enough to promise something to the citizens, and then 15 minutes after the republic's elections to trample everything that was promised. So, we listened to Djelic for the prime minister during the entire campaign last year, and 15 minutes after the election, the promise to the citizens was overrun and it was handed over to the third party in the election. That is why Serbia is unique. Don't let the citizens be fooled again. Vote with your head, but also with your heart. Do not believe the false promises of those who failed us just a year ago and those who sold their policy for the sake of only these elections that we will have on January 20th, or presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13975	Thanks to MP Slobodan Maraš, the word has been made by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. Would you like some right now, Mr. Wolfie? Yeah. ) Mr. Stefanovic gave the word to Mr. Vukic, please, according to the Rules of Procedure the word has Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... I didn't understand you, Mr. Omerovic. I'll manage on my own, Mr. Grouchy, I don't need anyone's help. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the SRS have not yet received an answer to the key question we have asked about the state of Serbia. It is obvious that the situation in Serbia is complicated, that the government is split, divided, and it is clear that the time has come for change. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia announced the 20 January presidential elections. It was an indigenous and autonomous decision by the president of the National Assembly and the president of Serbia, his party chief. No one interfered in that decision. I will not comment on whether they will use some smaller political parties to run for individual people to take away some patriotic voice, possibly, Tomislav Nikolic, and it is clear that today only Tomislav Nikolic can defeat the regime's candidate, Boris Tadic. But what worries me, and I didn't go out for it, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, is it because I am very interested in what the response to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is -- is all of Serbia or part of Serbia joining? Whether we will celebrate this agreement and join the European Union without Kosovo and Metohija or whether it is contitiated by son qua non for any progress Serbia has made, as some have told us. I just think... I'm sorry if I interrupted your conversation, but don't be angry, either way, I'm sorry, one more time. So, we have a situation in Serbia today, I would say, condemned and fateful by the Serbian people, and that is the question, are we going to keep living this way and this bad, if we are going to continue to lose our territory, all trying to explain to the people how we are doing better every day, or are we going to start changing things around Serbia, or are we going to bring change to the citizens of Serbia. I want to tell the people of Serbia the next thing tonight, we from the SRS will prepare for this campaign as we have not prepared for any. We from the SRS will decide who will be our candidate in the upcoming presidential elections. I hope personally and express my confidence that it will be Tomislav Nikolic, but I must tell the citizens of Serbia that we will do everything and do everything we can, it is understood by the allowable and democratic means, that in these elections we will win, bring freedom to Serbian citizens, bring prosperity and at the same time tell them not to worry about the fact that different and diverse filth will appear in numerous media that are against Serbian radicals. We're going to wait a little while, we're not going to rush into an election campaign, we're not going to bother and strangle people with long, boring, pointless campaigns, but we're going to go around every city, we're going to visit every village, we're going to talk to every citizen in Serbia, we're going to shake hands with every man to show him how safe, safe and how much different and better a future is ahead of him in the country of Serbia, if the SRS presidential candidate wins, and I'm saying, I hope it's going to be Tomislav Nikolic. Yeah, we'll also talk to representatives of national minorities. They have seen that so far nothing has been received from the representatives of the regime. It is clear to them that they have been betrayed, that they have been deceived, that they have only served as a voting machine, as the voting body of the regime and the regimeal candidates and the ama of the garden. I am convinced that they too want to change that their children want much better, and we will always have to live as good neighbors, as good friends in our country of Serbia, because for everyone in this country there is plenty of room, who loves and respects our country. After all, I promise Serbian citizens the biggest parties in the election campaign, because these are elections to be or not to be, these are not party elections. These are not elections to decide whether the candidate of one party or another will win. These are the choices to decide: either the regime candidate or Tomislav Nikolic, or the opposition candidate. And it's up to the citizens to say their own, or for one, or for another. Either for the status quo or for the non-replacement of things, or they're satisfied with what they have today, or they want to be much better, or they want to be more incomparably satisfied, or they want to have an honest power, in which those who took the cements, those who took our factories, those who destroyed our economy, no longer rule this country, are already in the right place, and that is certainly not in the highest functions of the government and the most important chairs in this country. In any case, I end up and I thank you for getting this much time, I continue to insist on the answer, and what kind of state policy it will be, what kind of policy Serbia will be towards those who take away KIM from us, whether we continue to lie to the people that it's all right and that we don't have any trouble, that it's only important that we say, we go to the European Union, so it doesn't matter that we're being kidnapped by KIM. We think we should work together with everyone, but now we've seen who our biggest friends are. We are very grateful to the Russian Federation for telling us that the southern arm of the Russian pipeline will go through the Republic of Serbia. We will try to see that the same ends with the Republic of Serbia. Such a type of energy future and economic stability is something Serbia needs. I am confident and I want to say this way to the citizens of Serbia that we will do our best to ask for their help, to pray for them not for ourselves, not for our party, but for the future of Serbia and the future of our children. I'm sure of victory, we'll fight with all our heart for it, we'll fight for Serbia like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13977	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13978	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget ahead of us is obviously a law that needs to ensure the normal functioning of the entire Republic of Serbia, funds for the entire Republic, and apparently this adoption of the budget is completely blacked out by political games that primarily happen in the ruling coalition. I'll remind you that this budget was in the regular assembly procedure once before this time only a few weeks ago, and then it was withdrawn. He was withdrawn to first adopt laws that provide for the calling of presidential elections, and it was obviously done with the consent of the entire ruling coalition. The laws were then passed, the budget was returned to the MPs, completely unchanged, which the government did not even use to maybe look at some of the amendments and thus fix this law, which we will not vote for, because we think is bad, and in that way it was actually done that within the legal period until December 15th we will certainly not be able to adopt this budget, which is a violation of the law. It showed that the ruling coalition did not care about what it was talking about, it was up to a better life for citizens to make funds for schools, for hospitals, for a better life, but they cared that they could secure the vote. When it's done, the budget is back in front of us and will be adopted in ten days. A lot has already been said here about the budget deficit of more than 14.8 billion dinars, which is the fact that the real financing problem is at stake, because Serbia is still not going into real financing, but we are actually entering into these debts. We don't think this is a social or development budget. The story of privatisation, privatisation revenues, compensations, for the year of the government's internship, Serbian citizens, offers 200 euros to workers. So 200 euros offers you in privatisation procedures, in restructuring procedures, in layoffs of workers, in surpluses. What does that mean? This basically means that the funds were provided for that minimum payment. And board members, directors, board presidents have averages of 100 to 600 and over 600,000 dinars, so you have someone who's worked 20 years, so, hard and hard work, he's been fired, lost his job, his firm entered some restructuring, gets 4,000 euros for 20 years of work, and someone who gets 4,000 euros in a month. The director of NIS and the chairman of the Management Board, if you ask who has 4,000 euros, 562,000 dinars are receiving. Check it out with your colleagues, if you don't believe it and it's not the only one, and it's a little small to have two thousand, and the worker gets 200 euros a year at work. It is also a shame in these procedures as Serbia's banking systems, as businesses have been destroyed, sold cheaply and for nothing, and you today provide workers with 200 euros per year of internships and directors and board members of billions of dinars for them to enjoy the luxury that Serbia cannot even see. It's something that citizens can't tolerate or can't see. Today, the Bora miners sent a letter to me, and I won't read it to you in due time, but they say that even disabled pensioners who worked in RTB Bor and Majdanpek in production conditions for 30 years, in the meantime, suffering from difficult working conditions, today various state commissions are denying disability pensions, auditing on the basis of some visual examination and saying, "You have no right to do so anymore." And those disability pensions, these people, they barely even survive with them. They got them working in the mine. At the same time, board members, who fight hard in luxury leather chairs, enjoy more money than these people have won for life. It's a shame this budget and it's funded. When it comes to official travel, expenses, that's what my colleagues said, but it should be reminded that the cabinet, let's say, the President of the Republic is scheduled for the trip of 43 million dinars. For the services under the contract over 17 million, which we repeatedly said were always problematic in the budgets, because they do not clearly show what they are being spent on, and it has often been the subject of many problems, and often there have been major disagreements, and often there have been corruption and crime. We, unfortunately, had today on the Finance Committee the State Auditing Institution, whose president has been elected from the ruling majority because members of the ruling coalition have proposed it, he says today - we have no working conditions, we have no room, we work here in the fifth floor hall, when the MPs come we leave, so we wait and return. That's what the man you chose in the highest body that controls budget spending says. Clearly, there is no desire to control anything. We had a case a few months ago, police arrested the director of City Cleanness in Belgrade, he embezzled in two years 350 million dinars. I'm asking the Director of the Auditor's Institution - have you been there, have you entered the procedure? He says, "I don't know, I read in the paper." This shows that this budget has, so I don't read all the travel expenses, not to take my colleagues time, a billion and 747 million are just travel expenses for these several ministries and services per contract. Is that what Serbia needs? Where are they going? They killed themselves from travel to countries that said unanimously the other day - yes, we want an independent Kosovo. Was that the purpose of our foreign policy? If they're incompetent, if they're unsuccessful, they should take political responsibility and say, "We can't do this job anymore." Today, one of the key news in economic developments was a significant decline in the Belgrade Stock Exchange index. When Tomislav Nikolic was here for a short time as president of the National Assembly, as soon as he became president, they immediately said - stock exchanges fell because of Tom Nikolic. And today these actions are almost 20% less than at a time when Tomislav Nikolic was president of the assembly. Is Boris Tadic or the Serbian government, who today is to blame for the stock market dropping? Who's to blame for this, whether Boris Tadic or Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, are they guilty of the stock market going down today, because when Tomislav Nikolic was president of the assembly he was guilty, so it must be someone else's fault today. So everything that's happening to us is obvious. I would not go into further discussion because of the time, and here Mrs Tabakovic has very precisely given everything related to the unfavourable loans we take, and to borrowing and non-representation in the budget of everything we take, because the minister says that this is not a factical consumption because we are creating a new value, although we do not see any new value. I wouldn't go into it, I'd just say that because of all this Serbian citizens, they want to change, they want a different life and they want a better country. They have the right to do that, because they're giving out money for this budget. It's not this budget, it's not the government's budget, it's not the president's budget, it's the Serbian citizens' budget. It is our job to try this money to make them live better, not to make them live through these various boards of directors, analysts, and huge resources better only some of the ranks of the ruling parties. That is why I am convinced that he will recognise Tomislav Nikolic as a man who will be able to lead Serbia and who will make life a better place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13979	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The word is from Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, the SRS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have witnessed that in the last three hours the political atmosphere has come to an end, not only in the Assembly Hall, but everywhere, in the entire National Assembly building. It is normal, with the SRS business ahead, which we expect, as Mr Vukic said, from the heart to the candidacy and to the victory of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to be seen as our obligation and as a way to present to the citizens of Serbia our way of leading the state. I think that despite the fact that the President of the Republic does not create the country's monetary, fiscal policy, the choice of Tomislav Nikolic can and can have a major impact on future economic developments, and above all on the political ones. We are witnesses of this, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as well as the journalists who asked me now in front, I apologize, I made a lot of statements about the election calling, that there is a great deal of friction and a great dissension between coalition partners in this government. As an MP in the Serbian Parliament since 2000 and earlier, as a politician who has been following us since the 1990s on our political scene, primarily as a Serbian radical, I have always tried and tried to make sure that the citizens of Serbia individually from one another, as Aleksandar Vukic said, by going to every village, to every village, wherever I reach and wherever I can, as well as any Serbian radical, explain the difference between us Serbian radicals in the concept, in general, in seeing the state, spending people's couples, the future of the country and those who are our political opponents, who today are the disastrous government in Serbia. The difference is that we are people who host, people who take care of every single person's interests. I have indeed had the privilege and the privilege of politically standing with the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic, his deputy, who will be, I am confident, future president of Serbia. What's someone who's been through that thorny political path for 16 years, discussing budget projections, this is the 13th budget of Serbia that I'm considering, and who in my hands could learn from these people? We were really focused all the time on the fact that the state of Serbia must take much more care of the poorest. As time went by, and especially from 2000 to today, there are more and more poor in Serbia. Unlike you who are ruling today and the concept that Mr Mirko Cvetkovic now has, before him Mladjan Dinkic, before him Bozidar Djelic, we never wanted Serbia to have one single dinar in debt. We are now so in charge of the country, without real insight into what is happening and without individual contracts and risks that force Serbia to do so. Mr. Cvetkovic, explaining this budget proposal, said in his exposé of almost 50 minutes that we have a low level of savings and a high level of consumption. Yes, but why is that, Mr. Cvetkovic? Where are the conditions for Serbian citizens to save without being in debt? Well, production, productivity, factories, jobs. Do you think there are few workers in Kragujevac and many jobs? No, there are no jobs, and the workers want a job. It's just that you haven't opened any factories in the past seven years, except for putting the key in the lock. Let's start with Kragujevac, because I said that tomorrow, the party authorities in the city, where Mr Nikolic was born, will decide to direct the candidate to the Central Country Authority for his future role as president. What was the situation, here's to just talk about one of the burning economic problems, in the Zastava car factory, and what's it like today? What was the situation in the car factory when he asked about its survival, Tomislav Nikolic and Dr. Vojislav Seselj, after the senseless NATO aggression? I have to remind you that in 2000, so right after the bombing, the car theft plant in three months produced more from its program than it has been statisticalally by quarter for all of this time back seven years since you were in power. I must remind you that she entered the process of finding a strategic partner and then when we were under the most severe sanctions. I didn't hear you say, Mr. Cvetkovic, unlike your predecessor last year, or the previous finance minister, that you even mentioned large systems, that you were at all concerned with the question of whether Serbia needs or doesn't need the automotive industry, not just her, but the whole metal complex that monitors the development of such an industry. Where's the government's role in all this? Where's the role of the president of the state? No, you forgot all that. You forgot about the fact that you didn't see all the aspects of the Serbian economy after your disastrous policy of borrowing, kidnapping, robbery, and the sale of everything. Do you think Serbian workers are unable to produce for European and world markets? Yes, but you in the budget, Mr. Cvetkovic, have items of budget and money laundering. Export promotions? Oh, please, 79 million for the Export Promotion Agency? So who did this agency help? Then let me not speak further, for the stability of the market, for the arrangement of the system and supervision in the area of trade and services, for the promotion and support of the area of trade and services, for the security of market stability. Which market in Serbia is stable? Is it safe for a peasant who produces something today, who brings his quality Serbian product to any market in his drinking day in his place? Of course not, because the import lobby does what it wants, because we have the government's negligence, because Serbian agriculture was destroyed and because the Serbian industry was destroyed. People who are seriously dealing with the problem that I have just started, which will certainly be solved in the future period and I believe that Mr Tomislav Nikolic's role as responsible president of the state will indeed be strong in this regard. How are we going to solve the problem of these big systems? Well, you yourself, Mr. Minister, have announced that privatisation of the remaining social enterprises should be made, but who are our potential partners, who are Serbia's allies in political, economic, in any other sense? The European Union, which wants to take away Kosovo and Metohija, those who force us to borrow, those who have an office in Belgrade, or Mrs Miscevic, which is an exponent of such a policy on behalf of you and this office that spends 80 million people's money? That's what the citizens won't do anymore. You know how, when the host starts to solve, we have it in Shumadia, but in every part of Serbia and wherever the Serbs live, he solves it first from the house. That is why Tomislav Nikolic, elected president of Serbia, will first start with his budget and what the president of the Republic spends. You have had opportunities, citizens of Serbia, to address you, to see how they ruled for their pockets the tycoons from Tadic's environment, above all Dragan Djilas, who was the director of the National Office, and the position of Boris Tadic, who abused the Democratic Party of Serbia's voting body and all those who voted for him, and he tricked them into getting rich and gaining additional wealth, one in a series of tycoons surrounding that party. He who is a fighter against criminals and corruption, a man of honor and morality, is certainly the deputy president of our party, Tomislav Nikolic. Don't think he'll be able to survive your government for a long time. I don't mind this, although the implications, of course, and how your reign will be dangerous after the 19th and what the DSS told you. That is why I call on all DSS members and all citizens who voted in the elections when Kostunica gave support to Boris Tadic, so that they no longer cheat. I have no illusion at all, since otherwise all public opinion research shows that the trend and growth of the electoral body in all our society structures, especially among the younger population, is for Tomislav Nikolic. But if we're talking about development policy, if we're talking about Serbian citizens seeing some improvement, then let's define ourselves as a different economic policy. Then let's value what's ours, you obviously won't. Transition fund, Mr. Minister, conto 472, like last year. From that transition fund, that is, from the budget that you proposed when you were elected as Minister at the beginning of this year, the workers of the Employment and Education Institute were paid poor compensations. My question to you is, where has it been spent and where will the rest of the funds be spent by the end of the year? And why isn't it now, in this budget for 2008, the same amount is explained by the social programmes that should follow? Because you sold out everything for a reason and because no tycoon from the Democratic Party, and one who was close to both Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, and the current government led by the Democratic Party, did not respect the social contract. It's the only thing we do for days, so you'll see how devastating these things are for you and your rule. Serbia is not a country that needs more debt and should sell out its national wealth for reasons. Given that, not only convinced of the correct political, economical, any other orientation of the party to which I belong and what Tomislav Nikolic represents in the electoral body, I think his role as president of the Republic and how it will affect the development of a different economic situation in our country. Because if a city, such as Kragujevac, can launch an initiative, with a truly kind and generous attitude and support of Tomislav Nikolic, that we have the days of India in the heart of Serbia, to talk to Indian partners, who today can invest, it is their political decision, who knows how many billions in our economy, the automotive industry. If we in Kragujevac will also have an economic Russian-Serbian summit, which we will certainly support as much as the organisers ask of us, I am convinced that all such opportunities with those who are willing to invest in Serbia, that we have productivity, that we have production, and therefore better health care, better pensions, better social policy, a improvement for every citizen of Serbia, for children of Serbia, for those who expect help, and there are 800,000 living below the poverty line, that such a policy will show for a short time that we can and can do better. First of all, because Serbia is at our heart and that we always protect our country and watch that we leave it to future generations, just as Tomislav Nikolic thinks, to leave it to his grandchildren and other children who are yet to be born in Serbia, to be proud and to break up once and for all with thieving politics, kidnapping policy. And, as it happened in Russia almost eight years ago, when perhaps none of the Western mentors of the then treasonous Russian government expected, I believe that the citizens of Serbia will now recognise our strength and that Serbia, as the Russians did with the shift of Boris Jelicin, the shift of Boris Tadic and the election of Tomislav Nikolic, will move forward from the heart and make it much, much better for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13981	I thank National MP Natasa Jovanovic, my colleague, vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13982	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the budget of a state also means the life of a country in a year. It is always one of the most serious topics for parliaments, as it should ensure a normal life for its citizens in the coming year. Of course, when you need to bring a budget into a situation like this, then you already have to think about what the lives of citizens will be like next year. Political stability is very important for the adoption of one budget, as is financial stability in the country very important when the budget is made. If we are making a budget today and we are discussing the budget in a situation where you have a unilateral vote, and when as a MP you get a letter from the president of parliament thanking you for your work so far, then, of course, the question of how this budget that this assembly is supposed to bring, which should mean the lives of Serbian citizens next year and all those obligations that the state of Serbia has, will affect the economic operators and whether this budget is filled with the dynamics it has imagined, or whether it will be normal, the finance minister. This is certainly a big problem for the finance minister as well. On the other hand, this problem of budgeting, even though we know here and we have that the budget is going to be indicative, not to mention the final figures, 639 billion, we have that the expenditures are 654 billion dinars and that the deficit is 14 billion dinars. This deficit may be, even some may seem to be a negative thing, may be positive, but in any case the current political situation is a problem of adopting this budget in terms of whether it will be realised as it is imagined. The new Serbia will, of course, vote in favour of this budget because we think it would be terribly unserious for Serbian citizens to think in any other way. But life is ahead of us, a man can never guarantee certain things, but I still think this budget will come. The new Serbia will also vote for it to ensure that, regardless of the various political views and opinions, the citizens of Serbia will have to have that financial security. There are a lot of those users who live their lives, and it's not easy for them today, and it depends on these budgets. I want to say something as an MP, who, of course, will vote for this budget, I'm surprised about the Ministry of Science, is the question of what we in Serbia really want, where we see this road, that window somewhere towards a better and brighter future and whether we see somewhere that Serbia's youth is something that needs to ensure the future and creativity in this country. Unfortunately, when you look at it, I know that the cake is small and that many want to get to that cookie, and that cake is very difficult to evenly distribute, and it's certainly a great task and a great responsibility to whoever makes the budget, and our biggest responsibility is to the finance minister and, right to tell you, all of us, when we look at those budget items we think we should give more somewhere, somewhere we should give less, and everybody thinks they're damaged or they need more. But we need somewhere to define what the future of this country is. When you look at the Ministry of Science - 8 billion and 259 million dinars, and the Youth Fund 21 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as long as we think like this, we will lose these young talents and these young talents will depart from this country. In Kragujevac, a young group of doctors made up a project, invented one software to measure blood flow through blood vessels and measure gas through alveolas. What is very interesting about the pilot project, done by these young doctors, is that nobody in Serbia knows and none of the Serbian experts was interested in asking what these young people in this country are doing in the town of Kragujevac. Of course, they don't remember Serbian experts, they don't remember the vain people asking these young people what they did, but he remembered Harvard, he remembered London, he remembered Paris, Germany, he remembered Japan, they remembered people from all over the world, they took an interest in these young people, and I have to say that these young people got part of the American taxpayers' budget cake. I think the finance minister certainly knows how hard it is to get a young team of doctors from a town called Kragujevac, somewhere in the heart of Sumadia, in the heart of Serbia. It's very difficult, but it's something that we as people need to worry about, put our finger on our foreheads and wonder who we are, what we are, what we do, how we think and what happens to us. Will this country of Serbia tomorrow be a country of old, sick, exhausted people, a country of fraud, a tycoon, or will we have one European-developed Serbia, in which normal life will be a normal thing, not a normal life of an abnormal thing. We're going to get into a situation, and young people are going to get involved somewhere in America, maybe in another country, and then in a few years we're going to import what we had here and pay for the expensive knowledge that's gone on, past us, and we in our vanity didn't want to integrate it and, of course, stay here, and we're selling our brains tomorrow. We will simply and simply make our minds come out because we didn't have the courage to say that a young man can do something, do what I did when I was 50 and I couldn't do it. That's the problem we need to think about, the problem we will surely remember one day and the problem Serbia has to solve. I haven't told these young people how important this project is. Maybe not so much for MPs, but for some professional people who do science in this country. This blood flow project through blood vessels and gas flow through alveolas, and that software they've done is important because people have made software so that they can project a certain disease over time and can act preventively on that disease, and that's why the world is interested, and we're totally indifferent, we're not interested in these young people. On the other hand, I want to say something about the Ministry of Infrastructure, the ministry run by the party or it is part of the division of power to New Serbia, but the ministry that is not the ministry of New Serbia and Velimir Ilic, is of course of interest to all citizens in Serbia. Serbia needs infrastructure. No infrastructure is needed for New Serbia, New Serbia's MPs and Minister Ilic, but Serbia needs infrastructure, and without good infrastructure, there is no good economic development. I think that's clear to everyone. If you have a good trip, then there's the foreigners, there's new fresh investments, there's the factory, and if there's no road, there's no infrastructure, of course there's nothing. The Ministry of Infrastructure received 20 and a few billion dinars, and subsidies to the Serbian railways are 10 billion and 600 million dinars, I listened to a MP yesterday saying where the railway would spend that money and I don't know from Subotica how long the railway was shut down. Many tracks in Serbia will be shut down because they are insecure, because the average speed or speed on those tracks is 20 to 30 km per hour, many will be shut down, and the reconstruction of these tracks is one million euros per mile of rail track. When you look at it, 11 kilometers, which is 11 kilometers, it's down to the Flood of the stream, I don't believe it's more, and there's so many miles ahead of us that have to be reconstructed. I must say that the finance minister on one Transport and Communications Committee has very cooperatively said that he will meet and Serbia's roads on the resolution of certain finances, because it is the interest of all Serbian citizens and all Serbian citizens expect to live in better and better quality conditions as regards infrastructure, and knowing that this is the ministry in this mandate, and in the previous, unforeseen amount of funds invested in solving the elementary disasters that have hit the country of Serbia and you can never count on it to be. The Serbian Constitution says we will develop Serbia's territory evenly, evenly. I must admit that I am a little surprised about these transfer funds, although it is clear how the transfer funds are being collected, that law has been passed, but it is also something that we, who are leading this country today, should make us think again about where Serbia is going now. Is the whole of Serbia heading to Belgrade because Serbia's interiors are bad conditions for life, whether Serbia's internal Serbia and Serbia will remain just a mere poverty that cannot reach Belgrade and whether we will have split Serbia, one that will be here in Belgrade, with 2.5 million or 3 million inhabitants, and another part of the dissociated Serbia, in which the other half of the population will live. It's something we have to think about. It is not that division of transfer funds, knowing that large economic operators are giants, that the economy is the most happening right in Belgrade, we must think about this Serbia, especially when we say that we will fight for these borders and that we will not allow territorial Serbia to change. If we won't allow it, then we really need to create a balanced development of the entire territory of Serbia. It is not normal for the city of Belgrade to have a transfer amount of 10 billion 142 million dinars, for the town of Kragujevac 799 million dinars, for Nis billion 243 million, for Novi Sad a billion 690 million. There is no even development and there can be no even development. It will be a terrible problem if everything that is economically worth moving to Belgrade. Belgrade streets can be makeupd, but they can't be expanded. The narrow streets of Belgrade are to receive a good share of Serbian citizens fleeing Serbia's interior, as their living conditions are unconditional. That's why I spoke earlier and said that the Ministry of Infrastructure had received little funds. Because it is through the Ministry of Infrastructure that this even development of infrastructure in Serbia should be made. What do we do when Velimir Ilic leads him today? Tomorrow he will be led by another Ilic or whatever his last name is. But regardless of who runs this ministry, it was supposed to have a bigger cookie, because it's not a minister's cake, it's a cake for Serbian citizens who are supposed to get that infrastructure, and it's not happening to us, that everything that's worth it, it's financial something, it's running from the inside and it's coming to Belgrade. These are the things to think about. I think that part of the story I've been telling, about young talents, young people from Kragujevac, who we, who today determine the fate of this country, haven't noticed, haven't seen them here, and have been seen by those from a faraway world, even those across the ocean. We need to think about these people. Such children in Serbia have many, many talented children, we educate some people, and then when they finish school, we kind of forget them. There'll be a moment when we'll regret it, but I'm afraid it'll be too late then. For these reasons, I suppose, there will also be a budget rebalance, because this budget with this deficit must experience certain rebalancing and this story is not that I criticize anyone, but that as a man, an MP, a man who has three children, and my children, and your children and all children of Serbia should live in normal conditions, not to flee from this country. For these very reasons, these young people who are trying and making the most of their best efforts, who prove themselves in many competitions, win many in the world, and yet in some way live in much worse conditions and have much less resources for schooling and education, but they have this potential that we have in people, of course, and in that teacher's staff, not to forget, because people are going to lose motive to fight and it will be a big problem for us tomorrow, not to be a country of old people, sick, exhausted people and tycoons. In the end, let me say that in this particular budget rebalancing and the health ministry should get a bigger cookie. It should get a bigger cookie because Serbia is facing a major problem. More than 130,000 people suffer from malignancies and suffer in Serbia. The big problem is Serbia's figure, and maybe Serbia didn't take it seriously. But none of us can guarantee that this fate cannot happen. Serbia, as a small country that had a solid health system, must fight under these conditions that it now has a good health system and that Serbian citizens get decent, good and quality treatment in health institutions. Over 33,000 people die annually from malignancies and no one discusses it. We have to make sure of that. We lose one city a year. I'm afraid this budget that's small too, if it keeps going like this, it might be big, because it won't have anyone to use it in this country. That is why we need to take account of this rebalancing to think about the Youth talent Fund, and the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Infrastructure, because these are key ministries that need to provide a good and quality life, and good and quality treatment and preventive medical professions, to reduce the number of patients, and also to do infrastructure and enable even development, so that people don't run away from Serbia and come here to Belgrade and interest people, to come and open up their businesses and that these people are employed. The problem of employment, the problem of treatment and the problem of young talented people, their work, their future, is a great obligation for us today to determine the tomorrow of Serbian citizens in this parliament. Some other people have provided and determined the past. We know what our past is, we know what our present is, but let's fight to make it a better future. The NS will support this budget, but we wanted to draw attention in a quiet, correct tone and say to the finance minister that these are things to pay more attention to in the budget rebalancing because this should also be Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13983	The word has Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13984	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer a few key and most important questions, as I estimate them. There are one number of questions that are specific, so I need additional information. It is questions, for example, whether the court in Krusevec is involved or not. I got the information that he did, but I'm gonna leave that kind of question for tomorrow. I'd like to answer these a little more global questions right now. I'd start with this last one, because somehow it's left in the air as very important, and I also think it's very important, it's a question of the Fund for young talents and the estimate that 21 million, as defined for it, is a small number. That's why there's been one criticism. I think that criticism is in place, with that 21 million figure being misread. According to ours, we have defined 410 million for the Youth Fund, not 21 million. So the number we're offering is 20 times greater than the one that was critical, so I join the criticism. Here, we already have one of those problems solved. Now I'd like to go back to those questions that were left unanswered, and they belong to a group of more serious ones. The first of these concerns certain parities and the establishment of relative relations between certain budget items, which leads to the conclusion that something is probably wrong. For example, it is said -- how is it possible, for example, that the Ministry of Health has less money than the police, or that the Ministry of Faith is bigger than the Ministry of State Administration, or that it is three times larger than telecommunications, that the BIA is bigger than the Assembly, etc. So some parities and comparisons are being made and negative conclusions are being drawn from there. Of course, positive or negative conclusions are drawn depending on the qualitative assessment and attitude towards one or the other segment. The example works, on the question that the Ministry of Faith is a bigger item than telecommunications, the believers will say -- great, the budget is extraordinary, and the atheists will say -- why did you even give money there, we need it for telecommunications. It is obvious that there is a certain degree of misunderstanding or replacement of thesis here, but basically my answer to this question would be the following: the whole area of various activities, financed through the budget, all these activities have their own internal logic, internal costs and all of them are needed by this country, and that is why it also finances them. I don't need to be qualified to stop and judge - I prefer this or that, because then there would be quite absurd conclusions, the type of reason why the bike is more expensive than the antibiotics, when an antibiotic can save our lives, and the bike serves us to go to the beach. Therefore, I ask you not to take such comparisons from the assessment whether I love the police or not, but from the fact that each of these activities has its own internal logic and costs, and if you disagree, then do not go through comparison, but through scanning the sum of expenditure related to the individual item. The second question was by one MP, who also mentioned the issue of transfers going to Belgrade, visas from these other cities, therefore, is not only referred to as the last exhibition, there was another similar. In the second, the view was even expressed that the number of executives financed from the budget was increased, which is essentially not true. A slightly reduced number for 2008 compared to 2007. As for the transfer itself, I feel the need to explain that this issue of transfer to the locale, which basically distributed some sums of funds to a very large number of users of different characteristics, so this activity in itself allows great intransparency, if for example, to be left to. The Ministry of Finance that it only assesses who he likes better, who's in power and that the transfers are shared by one of their own keys. Instead, one was made, so to speak, a model involving various inputs, i.e. parameters or characteristics of a particular local community being financed. Then the total amount of funds is inserted into the model and the software, which exists, by automation, neither by grandmother nor by uncles, is distributed by the Ministry of Finance. In doing so, there is one parity committee that looks at all of this and determines whether it's okay. The commission is led by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, but the whole thing is made so that an individual has no ability to have a key impact on transfers, otherwise there would be a whole mess, and it would always be a question of whether this one should be given more, this one less. Most of the time, the transfers are realised by automation, so Belgrade also got as much as it got after automation. There is one thing that should be noted, which is that when determining the transfer for this year, compensation for the losses that the locals had on the basis of a reduction in the tax on housing, which is the original income of the locals. On this basis, it turned out that various losses in different local communities, with the biggest losses, in fact, in major cities, or Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, and significantly smaller losses in these lower communities, where these traffic was almost gone or very few. That is why Belgrade should have made one significant compensation based on these losses. However, given that he has some fiscal capacity, one such compromise has been made at the Conference of Cities, where Belgrade has received less than would have been followed by a direct application of the formula in the part when it comes to these losses. It's about the transfer. The next issue was related to the water supply of Kosovo Mitrovica and some other cities, which are very problematic and which came to Serbia's government to address as a problem. The government has reached some conclusion and is now expected from the finance ministry. One of the MPs here asked why it didn't work out, so I would take the opportunity to give an answer. In fact, it is that the government has concluded to the Ministry of Finance that, in accordance with the law, it solves the problem. We couldn't find a legally justified and quick solution, for the simple reason that this whole thing consists of local communities with one foreign company signing a contract on the implementation of the project, and then the company is not going to enter into the contract, but rather asking the government to guarantee that the contract will be executed, or to pay if it doesn't come to the conclusion of the contract. The involvement of the state in a contract concluded by the two sides is basically an increase in public debt and the government cannot do it alone without the assembly. You'd have to make a special law that would treat that question. We thought, the idea was to put it in as part of this budget. However, this was not possible, for the simple reason that public debt, when taken over, then our people must participate from the start in the negotiations, to determine that it was a transparent process, etc. Here, in a particular case, the practical contract has already been concluded. We had no idea if it might have been a more favourable price, a possibility, etc. We've been brought into a very unpleasant situation. My proposal will basically be to go towards resolving it through a special law, where we will give specifics to the specifics, if we can solve it. Otherwise, through the classic mechanisms we own, we don't have a chance to solve it without making any mistakes. The next issue, one of the MPs criticised the financing of public debt payments from privatisation funds. I have to say, I didn't make that observation clear, because privatisation funds are the main source of debt financing that we've taken, and that's all over the place. They, by the way, can be used for other purposes problematicly, but they seem completely uninflational to finance debts. The question has been asked, even by the name of Harold Hirschoffer and what he thinks. He is a local IMF official and he has his opinions. However, we had, independently, one mission that came and made appropriate suggestions. These proposals, of course, are not binding, because we paid off all our obligations, but we were pleasantly surprised by the fact that in identifying problems they did not come up with anything new that we didn't know until the moment we received their report. It is true that they have proposed to go to a surplus budget, to enable and facilitate the deficit position of the private sector. We agree with that. It seems to me that the only problem in our insight is the moment we get there. We think we need two or three years here. They consider it shorter. The question now is whether or not they are so sure about it that they can do it in a year. We've had constructive conversations and have very good relationships. One of the MPs criticised the agricultural budget and apostrophe of the 80m deficit, which showed that the budget would be in big trouble because there are no 80m. When I look at the figures, I still take it more as a compliment than as a criticism, because the sum of the budget is about 19.3 billion and slightly more, and that 80 million versus 19 billion and 300 million, they participate below half a percent, so 0.4 percent, 0.3 percent. If it's true that we at 99.7 hit the budget and missed those three, then I believe we had a great plan, because so far I haven't had so much success in more precise planning than this. Finally, there were a number of criticisms on why no funds were provided for the creation of factories by the government, whether Serbia needs large systems etc. This sentence, or verb opening, was meant not to cut the tape, but to invest in the construction of the factory. If I understand that correctly, I have to say that this is one question where there is a conceptual difference between those who think that the state should deal with business activities and build factories and those who think it should be done by the market. Both attitudes are legitimate, but it is clear that those who believe that the state should play an active role there, they are basically in favour of a single ethical system of rejuvenation. It doesn't necessarily have to be communism, but something that's very similar to communism. I was a little surprised, because it came from a Radical Party, which I was seeing as a party that was more right-wing towards private initiative. However, everyone has a right to an attitude that they will say. In any case, the answer to this is that the state has no intention of investing in the opening and construction of the factory, then it would be a pointless privatisation. If it was a concept, why would they sell something that's already state-owned? On the contrary, we would still go on buying, and then there is no need for any transition. As far as the big systems are concerned, if the big infrastructure systems are meant here, they are, of course, of interest to the state and state and they are. And when it comes to large systems within regular activities located in non-monopolis branches, such as, say, auto-industry and the like, then the answer to whether they are necessary to Serbia will first give the market rather than some arbitration external body. That's all I wanted. A little bit longer than I planned, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-12-0.u13985	I thank the minister and his team. I thank the Members of the People. We're finishing today's work. Tomorrow, the first speaker will be Radoslav Jevremovic, and the second National MP, Paja Momcilov. Thank you very much and good night.
