ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5542	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I agree that the sittings are attended by the 112-nation MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Milos Jevtic, Dragoljub Micunović, Milos Aligrudić, Donka Banović, Branislav Nedimović, Nikola Lazić, Željko Tomic, Laslo Varga, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared. Here you are, Natasha, and then the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjić, again, for who knows which time, collateral damage because you're an honorable man and because you couldn't refuse, because that's your attitude and principle, I've talked to you several times about starting this session as the oldest vice president in the working day that has fulfilled the basic condition that there are 84 MPs in the O.R. But what happened last night, at the end of the work of the National Assembly and the announcement of Yugoslav Minister Aleksandr Tijanic that since 18.55 hours, there has been no more direct transfer of the Serbian Parliament, is scandalous. It's just a prelude to shutting down democracy and, I'd say, a test balloon for you from the ruling regime ahead of the creation of a new Rules of Procedure, under which you want to deny us all the rights that the people have given us. For you, the MP obviously means nothing, for you, the Assembly is an ordinary farce or a protagonist of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You need to know that this will not be possible in the future and that we, and if you get together and whenever you accept from Yugoslav Minister Aleksandar Tijanic, from anyone, notices that do not contribute to the work of the National Assembly, we, the Serbian Radicals, will find ways to protect the interests of citizens. What a liar that July Minister of Information is and what a blind listener you are, the fact of last night speaks enough. Namely, I must remind the citizens that we, the Serbian radicals, at 18.55 p.m., had left the assembly hall during the speech of our colleague Momir Markovic, because we were told, according to a notice sent by Julian Tijanic, that there was no congregation transfer of 18.55 hours. That same notice applies to today September 14th. Julski Minister Aleksandar Tijanic wrote that the delayed transmission would go to the 2nd programme of 21.30h. Pure lie, because the session of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, and you who were not in the O.R., continued after the end of Mr. Momir Markovic's speech. So, Mr. Momir Markovic said about a minute without being in direct transmission. After that, smart Milosevic Albianic continued to chair the session, although it was obvious that all those registered on the SRS list were leaving the hall. This smart-ass Albianic, as important and as bold as God has given him, is going to read nicely with an empty part of the hall, in which there is not a single Serbian radical, and these DS and these couple from the DSS are getting tired, just to go through this and run home as soon as possible, and say, "The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. ''Empty bench – that's usually the Micickin manner of the past years, so as it worked, and the whole regime ended, so did they – he says, 'Thank you, goodbye. Nothing. ''The word has a People's MP Vlado Sekulić (man is not in the O.R.), go ahead. Radisa Ilic, do you want a word? '"It's a pure play with the will of the people and a mockery in the face of citizens who couldn't see it. He continued that smart-ass Albianić further, and then he said, "The word has Zdravko Topalovic, and you Topalovic are not in the hall, goodbye, pleasant. 'Tis to the end. And then the smart guy went to read that high-shrewd letter to Yugoslav Minister Aleksandar Tijanic. He reads in order how this unfortunate man informed the Assembly, and otherwise I found out that he was here yesterday morning, because the Minister of July orders you to work, issue warrants and write you a work order. Then when he read it all, he's an unfortunate man in the end says, "We're working on the next item of the agenda tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. ''As the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, informed that this delayed part would be broadcast at 21.30 p.m., I was in a hurry to arrive at my Kragujevac and to turn on the television receiver and focus all the time on the Second Channel. Do you think that was at 9:30? Of course not. It wasn't at 9:30, not later. Except that on the second TV channel with the national frequency, Aleksandar Vukic beat up those who came with him to talk about the most important issue for the state and people, Kosovo and Metohija, and then, in this patriotic and national spirit, I continued to watch another TV and listen to a smart woman like Olivera Miletovic talking about the villains of the Hague casamat. I followed everything on no channel, nor on the children's Happy TV, there was nothing Tijanic talked about. If someone's been given the right, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5544	Time, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5545	Mr. formerly failed Otporša Konstantinovic, it's very nice that you are now advocating to your diminutive voice, because you are an advocate for just shutting down democracy. It's probably in the resistive manner, because here, on the way this morning, I was listening in on that criminal and mob...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5546	Time, Natasha, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5547	... B92 station and your statement on the new rules of procedure. How well you put it, but that doesn't matter, I end up Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, not with democracy, not with the rights of the MPs. How do you know that when you're an outcast bulldozer of the revolution, when you guys stormed into the assembly like that, you're on the list from the DS. You know nothing about democracy or political life. Therefore, Mr. Mrkonjic, warn these young colleagues of yours, as I see that there is no Radojko Obradovic today, neither that smart Albianic nor Oliver Dulic, he is almost never there, he is an hour away and he is gone... Mrs. Kolundjia, when you can think of something to say in six minutes, then I'll congratulate you, but your... (President: Thank you, Natasha. )......................................................................................................... The range is about 2-3 minutes as far as you can tell, and if you haven't learned anything new as the head of the parliamentary group, take some of those Covic's speeches you wrote to him, because when you're infamously finished with Covic... (President: Thank Natasha, let us respect the time. )......................................................................................................... And these took you over, but you obviously, Mrs. Kolundjia, you don't know what democracy is, or what the Assembly is, or how the work of a Parliamentarian should be valued. This isn't in six or seven minutes, this is for a full-day debate, because you are suffocating parliament and the rights of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5548	Thank you, Natasha. The People's MP Srdjan Sajn, then the MP Rajko Baralić, then the MP Stefanovic, and Mrs Nada Kolundzija, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5549	Ladies and gentlemen, imagine a legal state where a minister tells you that this law cannot be implemented because I am preparing a new law and when that new law is passed, then something will be done. Is that a legal state? Imagine a democratic state where the same minister says -- you know, we're for democracy, we're for Europe, we're for respecting the rights of national minorities; but when 30,000 citizens submit an initiative, and by law it takes 18,000 citizens, then I can't respect it, you know, because it's twice as much as it should and it's not in line with democracy. Democracy is when they say 18,000, then it can stand 10,000, but if it's 30,000 then it's a little more than democracy, then I'm afraid of it. Gentlemen, today it happens in Serbia, today it happens in the Ministry of Local Self-Government. These are words directed by Mr. Markovic when it comes to holding an extraordinary electoral assembly to elect the Roma National Council. Does he think the Roma need tutors, that the Roma are foolish, that the Roma are retarded and that he should manipulate constitutional and legal rights, by holding in the drawer 90 and a change of day a single initiative, under which he was obliged to, after 45 days, hold extraordinary elections for the Roma National Council. Gentlemen, I would especially like to ask you from the DS, I believe that most people in the DS are honest and fair, I believe that most people here in this House are honest and fair, but explain to your colleagues that this is not a debate in which he should elbow himself to be a minister within the DS. Explain to him that this is a serious question and that today we have also informed the Manchester. I promised you at the beginning of the session that every day we would bring new things, new arguments on this issue, and that unfortunately, Roma are ready to go to the streets, but we abstain until the end of this month, because we will not be mortgaged by anyone, in a situation where Serbia negotiates Kosovo's status, that someone says that Roma have gone to the streets and wants to abuse the situation. I want you to talk some sense into that man already. Explain to him that he should respect the laws, not with two or three party colleagues, who care about having some political influence in the Roma National Community, that this is why he should block this. Being well-intentioned, warning him for 90 days, praying to him, that's not the result of us not being able to exercise our rights in another legitimate way. The reason is that we wanted to be constructive, because we respected all the political parties in parliament and you, but we have to realize that no one else can do it that way. I'm really asking you to warn the Honorable Minister, and I really expect him to finally enforce the laws. I don't expect anything else from him. Let him fulfill what the law tells him to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5550	The People's MP Rajko Baralic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5551	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was said this morning in the heat of the struggle that Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was collateral damage. Whenever it comes to Mr. Mrkonjic, he is a great profit, there is no harm with him ever, nor collateral. I checked in with article 225. We expressed our position last night regarding the work of parliament and direct TV transmissions. I want to repeat, on behalf of the SPS, our position here this morning. For us, it is not a question of the relationship between Serbia's television and the National Assembly. They can create such a programming scheme that parliament does not have at all in the scheme. For us, it is a question of the authority of the president of the National Assembly, which is the gentleman who occasionally comes here, who, when there is no other job, comes to parliament to open some session, and then plays Serbian Foreign Minister. We call on Mr Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, carry out the duties of the National Assembly president, to do so in such a way that none of these are harmful in Serbia, and at least the parliament and the public of the work of this Parliament; not to start meetings which are unable to complete, that these meetings are not only organised for the media to announce that a meeting was held, but rather to resolve these issues. I want to tell this occasion, even though it was not my intention, something like this could never happen to Predrag Markovic. I didn't praise him then, only he never asked this question. When there's no transmission, there's no session and no point. It's the President of the Assembly, not someone who's "breathing" to the director of Television, for reasons we're not familiar with right now. We expect the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with the will of the majority of MPs and the need of all the People's MPs and the public of the Republic of Serbia, to do his job in accordance with what is expected of him, to return to parliament and to do so while doing other tasks. Or let him say, "I'm a costumer, orthopedic, studying at this college or that college, I've got a few different educations, I can't make it." He can't do that. You're either the President of Parliament or you're not. There's no shame in saying, "I'm sorry, I'm not capable of doing that." We invite him to come to parliament and do his job as expected. The second question, just another half minute, Mr. Mrkonjic, is that I am not answering again, visiting the American Voice last night, Mrs. Sonja Biserko said the following thing: "The West has reduced its criteria to get Serbia into integration". So, Serbia is not going to integrate, but the West is forcing it, and it is dragging it in, and it opposes it! By the way, Sonja Biserko was CKKJ executive secretary, as a Croatian staff, in charge of analysis and was head of foreign minister Budimir Lončar's cabinet. When asked, "How do you assess the state of minority rights, especially Serbian, in Kosovo," the esteemed Mrs. Biserko says that I am paraphrasing, not to take your time -- we are working there, communication between Serbs and Albanians in Kosovo is remarkable; these incidents that are permanently happening are the effects of the activities of secret services that Serbia has installed in Kosovo and is provoking incidents, so that it can use it for daily-political purposes. Let this lady sue me, she's not normal. This lady is not normal. So, who's able to make this statement is not normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5552	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, then a National MP for Hope Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5553	Ladies and gentlemen, I have reported for breach of article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because what is happening today in Serbia is a severe violation of dignity and of all the MPs, as well as of the citizens of Serbia who have been fighting for true democracy in Serbia since the 1990s. What someone today calls a delayed transmission is actually a brutal beginning or an introduction to the true termination of TV broadcasts by the National Assembly session, regardless of who it was, even if Yugoslav Minister Aleksandar Tijanic. It cannot happen that any civil servant decides to lift what the National Assembly has decided. (President: I ask the MPs to listen to Mr Stefanovic. ) No one can say that the parliament of the Republic of Serbia cannot dictate the captainship of state television. Well, whose TV is it, who's the pay? It is the public service of all Serbian citizens, who pay it with a TV subscription. We are representatives of this people. I'm sorry that the government colleagues don't see it and that they don't fight for TV with the same kind of barbecue. We here make laws that will directly affect the lives of these citizens, and in economic and political terms, we decide on the most important state issues and citizens have the right to know all about it. What is happening in Serbia right now is a disgrace to every MP, and it is a shame that you all don't get up and raise your voice. Well, we're not subject to state television or any official. The function of this parliament is to fight for the interests of Serbian citizens and they have the right to see how we do it, how we express our argument and what is what we think will not be good or will be good. I am also sorry that MPs of the ruling majority do not go out to support the laws they propose. A very small number of colleagues appear at all to say something positive about these laws, which is also a shame. You are MPs whom the people have chosen to sit, to go out here and defend or attack, to challenge, to suggest improvement, not only to wait for something that the Government will bring. But the MPs of the SRS are clear why this is happening. You've had opportunities in the media to see that, in some ways, in certain political parties, the electoral front has opened, soon elections have been announced, and these political parties work every day to that end. Elimination of television transmissions is precisely one of the tasks that is now being carried out perfiduously, so as not to hear the words of MPs who have something against the ruling coalition or some who think they are untouchable and that it takes 100 years to rule Serbia. I have one piece of news for them -- it won't work, and when all these elections come, Tomislav Nikolic, and one Boris, and all Boris and everyone else who stands on the line, because Serbia wants to change, wants freedom, wants better people on its forehead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5554	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The People's Parliament of Mrs. Hope Kolundji came forward. You're giving up? Thank you, Hope. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5555	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am advocating a violation of the provisions of Article 225, and I ask the President of the Assembly to explain to us whether the work of this Parliament is done by the MPs, whether this assembly is governed by the President of the National Assembly, Oliver Dulic, or by a close friend, the one who set up the flower in the hair of Mira Markovic, JUL-based Minister, Marjanovic's performer of the dirty work, Aleksandar Tijanic. Today, we read that he indicates that the congregation will work in the future. With what right? I remind you that it was a man who was a close friend of those who were either in prisons or in arrests, close friend of Mirjana Markovic, Marko Milosevic, Ali Delimustafic, Damir Fazlic, Hrvoj Petrac, Bogoljub Karic, Bojana Bajrusevic. That's the man who was at the Legion in the MUP building. I'm talking to my colleagues from the DS, that's the man who said that fatal sentence -- if Djindjic survives, Serbia won't. You gentlemen shut up. Tijanic comes here to edit parliament's work, within the parliamentary majority in which the DS has the most MPs. You can't keep quiet; shut up about everything you said earlier that you would ask for to change, and the same Alexander Tijanic, and Dejan Mihajlov, and Zoran Balinovac, and Jocic, and Sarancic, and Rade Bulatović, and Jocic, shut up. You can't keep your mouth shut for a chair, a little power, a crumb from the board of directors of the one who's the principal employer of everything in Serbia. It must remain consistent and faithful to its principles, its ideology, beliefs, principles, attitudes, programs, because all of this is fleeting. It is necessary to look into the eyes of future generations, to remember who is the creator, ideologist and DS headquarters. Well, that man thought the worst of it. I will remind you of Bogoljub Karic's sentence that Aleksandar Tijanic was paid, he offered to publicly say it, and then a warrant was issued, he was in charge of discrediting, satanicizing and anatemist Zoran Djindjic. You keep your mouth shut, and that man has begun to arrange the work of Parliament, and it is a tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5556	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word has a National MP, Slavisa Topalović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5557	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. It seems that Mrs. Kolundzija can't put together three sentences, to come out for this pay phone, because if I'm not mistaken, she's the head of the parliamentary group, and otherwise she belongs to that part of Nebojka Covic's restaurant. You know, in the Serbian people, we call it the material, the waste, the one that can't be used. You, Mrs. Kolundjia... (President: Please, Slavisha, do not insult the message. Don't insult anyone, please. I'm sorry, I'm not insulting, I'm just making a point. (The President): Keep your dignity, and yours, and the congregation. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You, Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't know what you've earned, what you've done to lead a parliamentary group like the DS. You know, it's the image of the DS that participates in all the malfeasances. And everywhere there's something wrong, who's the initiator of it, someone from the DS. And you've been in charge, I don't know what credit you deserve, I repeat, and besides, here in Parliament you haven't drawn up two simple extended sentences since you've been elected as an MP. So please either talk to your party colleagues about your performance and work or resign. You did not spend this time in the hall three and a half minutes a day for all the assembly meetings, and now that Miss Natasa Jovanovic called you to say something, it was probably the initial chapel, according to the Rules of Procedure, but then you gave up. Okay, that's up to you. Yesterday, in a scandalous way, you interrupted the transfer of the National Assembly. What's to happen is that the President of Parliament does and allows something like that. Who's wondering about that? It is likely that, according to you, the director of RTS, Mr Tijanic, the JUL minister and associate. Gentlemen, the people are paying that subscription and the people are paying that subscription to watch us, to watch us choose in the elections, and you denied that people yesterday. Well, you were entered into the Assembly building yesterday by a JUL-Secret Minister, Tijanic, I repeat, brought the paper on which it says - today out of so much and so much you have no transmission. Tijanic, director of state television, signed. What reason do you have for that? One of you came out yesterday, I think even President Dulic, who is not here right now, and I have to tell you, I've noticed lately he's gone and gone. We may not have been informed that the work on that tunnel he promised started, so he's visiting hardworking or I don't know what it is. I think he said yesterday -- since there's no possibility, the state has no more channels. Well, gentlemen, you're the ones who lifted and sold the state channel to the third channel RTS, you've been doing it, someone's taken a commission to do it, and now you're denying the national right to be informed of your destiny, the fate of what's being said, what's being discussed, what's being discussed, and what laws are being passed in this House. You're the ones who did it, the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5558	Please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5559	All right, Mr. Chairman. Because of this gesture of yesterday's Mr Tijanic and together from the ruling coalition, I do not have the opportunity to speak directly to the finance minister. I need him to give me some explanations. He might have known something about it, but I need him to explain to me that the people would hear, for the sake of the public, because of the citizens of Serbia. Yesterday when I was out of the O.R., I asked him, Mr. Minister, tomorrow I'll see you at 10.00, and we'll continue, and he nodded, probably that means that, then left, right, whether it depends on him. I'm sorry he's not here right now, but whatever it is, I have the right under Rule 226 to ask the finance minister to explain to me what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5560	I can't calm down, Slavisha, five and a half minutes. Finish it, then again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5561	Okay, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5562	Ambassador Zarko Obradovic has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5563	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have appeared under the terms of Rules of Procedure, Rule 225. First of all, I would like to point out one of my mistakes, and last night I was visiting a television show and said that my colleagues from G17 were guilty, or their personnel solution, which was not a proposal for the composition of a state audit institution. In the meantime, I found out it wasn't like that, and this way I apologize for publicly telling them one false information. It is true that the coalition could not agree on the candidate's proposal. So, all together bear the responsibility that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not immediately after the annual holidays start working, but we waited until 10 September and it is not the order that they alone bear the burden of not holding a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, when it comes to holding meetings of the National Assembly, this is the basic reason why I called, so my fellow MPs would know, yesterday he was at a meeting with the leadership of television, Mr Tijanic was not the only one, I was the representative of the SPS and I can tell you that we didn't agree anything, that we would find a solution for yesterday and today, and that in the coming days we would form one group of representatives of parliamentary parties and in agreement with the leadership of television we would try to see what is true. We received this letter, according to colleagues Jovanovic pointed out correctly, because as television has established terms of some sports transfers a year ahead, so if we respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure we know when one begins, and when the second session, on October 1st and 1st of March. Meanwhile, of course, when extraordinary sessions are, if there is a good will, a solution can be found, but no one can convince me that the recording or transmission of foreign teams, for example, is something more important than the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is not about the transfer of representations or sports competitions in which Serbian representatives participate, but also about something else. That's when we socialists said, under the circumstances I, as a representative at that meeting, to Mr Tijanic, that we are to transfer the session of the National Assembly and all the sessions, but we also pointed out that this slogan they like to promote -- "Your right to know everything" is not like that in practice. And the best confirmation is yesterday's report from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's session, a report on the tobacco bill. It has been reported in public service, which is advertised under the right to know everything, reports what it wants, examples that only colleagues from the SRS are against amending the tobacco bill. No SPS mentioned at all. I can understand that Mrs. Jorgenka spoke at 13:30, we spoke at 1700 hours. Maybe the RTS didn't have time to stay here, wait for the assembly session to end, maybe they had other problems. They could ask us what our attitude is, they'd tell them. Since we know, of course, that they won't let us say it publicly through the media, but they could have announced our position as well. We come to the essence of why the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia meetings for parliamentary or opposition parties are important? Because this is the only chance to say something and to let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know about it. The public service only reports what it wants, has turned into a public service for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Remember, during the formation of the government, they had a direct transmission of how Mr Tadic's letter, who is a candidate for Prime Minister, travels from the cabinet to the assembly. Every minute they reported, the letter arrived, it didn't arrive, the proposal arrived, etc. This is the problem in this country because the public service has turned into a service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, television management is just an executive of someone's order to plan to abolish the transposition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one can convince us because we see how it's done. It is not an unknown practice that parliamentary parties, we Socialists could not be guests in the RTS programme. One hand can count the information emissions or the serious political shows we were in, but they are therefore representatives of parties that were not represented in parliament and how they were present and talked about what they think they are. No one can convince me that it is the public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia not to hear one parliamentary party or their representative and to hear some marginal political parties or individuals, who by who knows what basis participants are in those programmes. MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should know that we have not agreed on anything and for every conviction is the case of counterpart Albianic. It is his right to read that list to the end, but really mocking the congregation and reading the names of people who aren't there, it's really not correct. The least that Albianic should do is apologize to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the ones he called, and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the procedure he did, because it is not correct and it is not something that is the face of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5564	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward. After that, the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Maraš, and Radisa Ilic, then Slobodan Zivanovic, and Milena Stankovic, the Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5565	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the public work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As of October 5th, since then, National Assembly President Dragan Marsican began to prepare new Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there has been a constant collapse in the reputation of the National Assembly in the people. First you have decided that working is enough to have one third of the MPs present, instead of until then it takes 126, because you allegedly had some reform, important jobs at the time. So it was a little while, when Kostunica's government came to your turn, you made a decision that it was enough for only one third to be at the beginning of the working day, and then one MP can sit and chair, and the Assembly to run its course. Of course, even among political parties there are those who want to undermine the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so many information was placed through public information funds, especially when it comes to MPs, their receipts, their work, etc. No one lives in that ruling majority, the previous one and this one, can justify the anger of the citizens, because you knew that the session of the Serbian Parliament only runs when the opposition sits in the hall along with the chairman. When it comes to RTS, I will say this most now because of the DSS MPs, I also remember the time when the transfer was not at all after "Sablje" and that one of the reasons for the fall of the Government of Zoran Zivkovic was exactly that, and that is why the MPs from the DSS asked for the government to fall. Now that their Prime Minister has nothing to do with it, we're going to give the People's Assembly a little transfer, we're not going to give it a little bit. When it comes to RTS and its relationship with the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you have passed even a special law that Serbian citizens have to pay a subscription to RTS, and the reason it was allegedly to be independent in their work, not to depend on the budget, but to have secured receipts, especially as it is the public service of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since it's a public service and he wants independence, there's no problem. That's why they have two channels: one channel, one of their first programs, let Tijanic edit it at his will, according to his own needs, but this second channel will not be able to take care of the commercialisation of the second channel, because this same National Assembly has provided him with a safe flow of funds for RTS. And one of the conditions to ensure that, you yourself spoke here, is the transfer of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With the collapse of the National Assembly and its reputation, it continues with its arrival as National Assembly President Oliver Dulic. Mr. President says - we will not adapt our work to the RTS programming scheme. Those are his words. Whose programming scheme should this parliament be adapted to? Oliver Dulic's programming scheme? He is but a Messenger of the people, the first among the equal. And you allowed this by no longer asking the National Assembly when it will work, but it is the discretionary right of the President of the Assembly. One minute to sixteen of the Parliament's presidents or one of the chairmans who he says, we will extend the work, against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to the end of the agenda at 1800 hours. Now you expect this president of the Assembly to determine our programming scheme and restore the dignity of the National Assembly. Since you are already talking about the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, introduce once again 126 of you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, in the room to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to publicly show that you support it. You make decisions, and the Messengers of the people, until how many hours will the National Assembly do, and not to be the chairman. It is also an obligation for RTS to respect these decisions made by the National Assembly, regardless of its programming scheme.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5566	The Messenger of the people, Slobodan Marash, came to the word, and the messenger of the people was Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5567	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting for the violation of Article 226, i.e. asking for an explanation and response from the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr. Oliver Dulic, whether there will be a TV broadcast in the future of assembly sessions. I must say, it is my opinion that Mr. Alexander Tianic is not responsible for the situation in which we met. We're used to his behavior, that he's extremely arrogant, because he doesn't know how to behave otherwise. He came here as director of the public sector, or director of a public utility company or whatever, and tried to lecture the heads of the parliamentary groups, which I find totally inadmissible. It is a person who was a friend and close associate with Mira Markovic, with Marko Milosevic, with Bogoljub Karic, with the Legion, a man who was the head of the protocol when the Legion was being taught. We also know of his blasphemous behavior toward his television, okay, that's his house. But as you, gentlemen and ladies of the DS, first of all, I want to speak to you, because there are MPs in your ranks that I greatly appreciate, such as a lady who is currently preparing to leave this room, I really expect you to go out for this assembly pay phone and say - we will not allow Alexander Tijanic, an imperfect high school student, to lift the transfers of the Republic Assembly. I think that would be the most embarrassing thing for you. He said he cannot stand to tolerate the opposition obstructing parliament. I really don't think it's his to assess whether the opposition is doing its job or whether the opposition is obstructing parliament's work. To us who are in opposition, this is the only opportunity to say what we think, for the simple reason that every contribution made by RTS, or public service, whose director he is, shortens those contributions and installs them as he wishes. That's why you'll never be able to hear on television what we're saying from the opposition or at least in the right way. I have to correct Mr. Baralic, unfortunately he has now come out, he said that Mr. Predrag Markovic, who was the previous speaker of parliament, would certainly not allow such a thing. I think he would allow, for the simple reason that Predrag Markovic did the same thing that Mr. Dulic does, and what Mr. Tijanic does, he listens to Prime Minister Kostunica. And Prime Minister Kostunica doesn't respond to direct transfers from the National Assembly, not Tianic, he's just an enforcer. Why isn't Kostunica responding? Because you can hear the truth from this pay phone, and you can hear it, and the citizens of Serbia can hear that Miskovic is the biggest criminal in this country, and this is the only way to make it known. Mr. Albianic, Vice-President of the Assembly, acted really incorrectly yesterday, but it is not surprising. And his boss, Minister Dinkic, acted very incorrectly the other day and said it was MPs who did not allow the Assembly to work. He didn't have the courage to say yes, I'm a member of the government who hasn't prepared any laws. It's not surprising, Miss Jovanovic, his behavior, and we really need to ask him to apologize in this assembly, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5568	The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic, then Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, then Ms. Milena Stankovic, then Mr. Dragan Zivadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order to inform the government of something that represents, in my opinion, and probably for you when you hear, a harsh violation of Serbia's sovereignty. It's an amazing thing, which I'm going to show you in the case of fruit yogurt packaging, believe it or not. It's not the fruit yogurt packaging issue, it's the problem with what's on the packaging. We see here that something imported from Germany, there is a mark on it for Kosovo as if it were an independent state. Now I ask Mr. Minister, first of all I ask Minister Bubal, I will deliver a parliamentary question to him, how is it possible that in this debauchery a way to promote the non-existent state on the ground of Serbia, or Kosovo? It's not about CEFTA, it's something from a month ago and a few days ago, and how could something like that be found in front of consumers in Serbia, imported from Germany, as I said? My daughter asks me, who saw this - Dad, what is this state of KOS? What can I say? Costa Rica? It's not Costa Rica. I just keep my mouth shut. How could it have come to something like this in the first place? It could have been written on the label and killed Serbs without anyone noticing and entering Serbia. That is why I call on Mr. Trade Minister, Mr. Bubal, to withdraw these products immediately from Serbia. Otherwise, what about our negotiating team, the resolutions of the National Assembly and everything else, when we fell on the case of a simple fruit yogurt. To make the Austrians feel if they saw the mark for Tyrol, the Spanish for Baska, the French for Corsica -- as if the international state had been recognised. So I am taking this opportunity to, on the basis of all this, ask the parliamentary question of the Minister of Trade -- did this act violate the law, since a false label of the products from the imports appeared on the label of the non-existent state of Kosovo and will anyone be held accountable for this? Otherwise, if it does not respond to this attack on Serbia's sovereignty, I can openly doubt the government's honesty in fighting for Kosovo's survival and the Serbian-based Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5570	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word came from Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, then Mrs. Milena Stankovic, then Mr. Dragan Vujadinovic. Go ahead, yogurt can stay, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5571	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's citizens probably thought in the 99th year, when the bombing and destruction of Serbia stopped, it was over. However, they did not hope that these Natovski apprentices would continue to destroy Serbia after 2000. It happened, as you know, by destroying the Serbian economy. But, and that information that you probably all know well -- millions of unemployed, continued in one branch, which is in agriculture, and that's why you interrupted the transmission last night to show or to show these great heroes of work, these today's martyrs, who, in fact, are trying to save this country and that these hungry, whose mouth is daily, on the edge of existence, powerlessness, food. This law that was about tobacco, it was you who deliberately stopped it because you saw that some small gain was coming into the pockets of those farmers' farmers. Nowhere in this law did you put him as the main bearer of this, to call him the project, because it depends on him how this industrial production of this industrial plant is going to flow. As you said in the election campaign, even in all your promises, you cheated on the peasants, as you said 70-80 euros per drowned throat, and then you cut the price from the euro and 75 or the euro and 80 to the euro 35 and the euro 40, so what he was supposed to get -- he actually gets his money. Nothing in that state has helped him with certain subsidies. Also, here at the beginning of the sowing, I asked the Ministry and the Government what the price of the wheat would be. They told me -- well, it's a market economy, everything depends on the mill industry, as it is demand. What happened? During that period, the price of wheat lasted from 10 to 14 dinars. When the government saw, or Ministry, with Slobodan Milosavljevic, a man who was in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and you know what kind of crime is going on and what is happening in that Serbian Chamber of Commerce, then he comes out with that regulation to stop the export of agricultural products, especially wheat -- because, behold, the elemental disaster was, the drought, which hit Serbia. Now there is no market economy – please don't interrupt me – now it is the principle of the planning economy. So when the government and the ministry responds, it will then stop selling agricultural products, as you are now trying to devalue these values related to tobacco production. But I'll get back to you, for the sake of time, and I'll pick up where I left off.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5572	I thank Mr. Zivanovic. I'm asking Mr. Srdjan not to hold a session for me. Mrs. Stankovic Milena's MP has now come forward. Thank you, Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to commend Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic for calling me a National MP, that's nice and respectful. I'm reporting for article 225 and reacting to Mrs. Hope Kolundji's rude insult. We are MPs, this is the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and we have talked about it so many times, but I don't mind saying it again, we really have to treat each other with respect and respect. What hit me a lot here personally is that I felt Mrs. Kolundjia was attacked as a woman. This is where her human and female dignity was insulted. Now I have to criticise you a little bit, Mr. Grouchy, because you should have reacted, you should have turned off the microphone and not allowed any further insults. However, it also upsets me and disturbs me that my fellow Democratic Party colleagues did not support their co-worker, for not going out here and protesting such behaviour. I don't like the silence of the Democratic Party when such things happen. I don't like that silence either, which is what's being said about ending that transmission, and you keep your mouth shut and don't say anything. I mean, it seems to me in general, that there's a policy of silence being conducted in the DS and that somewhere you might be comfortable with those TVs being cut off, so that you don't see that silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5574	Thank you, Mrs. Stankovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5575	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you, Professor, here I am, as soon as possible, at points, to be as clear as possible. One, we will never and will never forget the ground and dirty language that Mr. Aleksandar Tijanic used against our Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. We never have, and we won't forget. At point 1, not only that, but in addition, we will seek and persist in requests to investigate the political background of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Under two, DS and we as MPs are absolutely for that there are no legitimate reasons to abolish direct TV transmission and it has never been the least serious solution - the abolition of direct TV transmissions. That's what Mr. Gavrilovic was talking about. That's why we shouldn't train the strictness of the two excesses that happened, half an hour's excess. I really shouldn't be talking about some intentional decommissioning based on these two excesses and even the intentional removal of transmissions will be a means of covering that silence conspiracy, or covering it with TV cameras. So, I think there's going to be a TV broadcast and it has to be and this is not a rule at all, it's an exception to which it's over. These two excesses are the only exceptions that concern, in our opinion, direct TV broadcasts. Under three, we really suggest to Mr. Slavisa Topalovic and the other radicals that they do not bid on stories of honesty and that they do not insult the messengers neither guilty nor debtors. We're all from our midst, we're all who we are, and you're the radicals and all the other MPs. Mr. Topalovic, and the other gentlemen, who bid on honesty, let's form a survey committee, that he examines, one commission, how many who have, of these people here, the apartments, who's what, who's what by interest and what his reputation is in his parent environment, and then let's say who's honest and who's not. The general story - thieves, corruption, come on, you can't mess me up, you can't mess up other people, it's hard we can't accept that bidding all the time, you're this, you're thieves... Where did you get that? Who's the thief? Here, the vice president is here, let him say who the thief is, and especially the insult, in this case, Hope Kolundji and everyone else. Gentlemen, come to your senses, let's wake up first of all people, first of all, as Kant says, let's put our conscience as our first imperative, our conscience, and then politics. First the conscience and then the politics. Can we do that? We won't be offended. Under four, as many as are present in the hall, gentlemen, I suggest you read the daily list of "Today," where I write on the weekend number, I'm counting, because I'm always here, as many as there are, so every hour, when there's at least count and write, the radicals so much, the Democrats, you'll see as many as there are. All black and white, not talking like that, there's this, and everybody's gone or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5576	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sekulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. What a colleague from the Democratic Party just said, of two points, so it turns out you said six points. Secondly, Mr. Topalovic is not in the O.R., so it is little and inappropriate to talk about him, but what you said was that we see who has any property, as far as I know, we are all bound, according to the law, especially MPs and committees, who have been elected to public office, that every year they surrender, at the beginning of the year, I don't know now how you, as you said, are going to form a survey committee to check someone's property, money, securities and everything. I think you should, but you forgot something, when we asked and proved that Mr. Djelic didn't report his actions to Meridian Bank, then no one said anything. I specifically asked Mr. Djelic how he gained shares in Meridian's bank, did he buy, did he as an expert associate, as he said there he was providing consulting services, based on which he received. At what value did he accomplish that? How much he got dividends over a year, did he sell, if he sold out whether he paid in the municipality where he lives, since it is legally an obligation to pay the tax on profits, from the purchase price of shares to the sale price of shares. Then I got an answer from Mr. Djelic, who signed it, that the ministry wasn't competent to answer me. I asked Mr. Djelic specifically, and he tells me he's not in charge. So who? Did I ask anyone from America a question? That's what I wanted to tell you. Now let me tell you something else. Now you're talking when it's a TV broadcast, you're pushing for that transmission, why didn't you go out with us and the SPS representatives yesterday when the TV broadcast was cut? You know why that TV transmission was cut off? Because the rest of us, the Serbian radicals, were to go out and talk about the tobacco law, and then just follow the following things, action plan, CEFTA and tobacco law. It would prove here, and there, the Serbian radicals, would show me, we will have opportunities in the amendments to show, that this was all done to protect the monopoly, first of all, the Croatian company Rovinj and, secondly, the monopoly companies. Then I'll tell you, when I mentioned the law, Philip Morris said he was going to remove production from Serbia, so after some negotiations, the talks stopped. The Bat also said that this is a threat and discrimination to the companies that bought our tobacco companies and who invested some money. The tobacco industry, I won't say tobacco, Rovinj wants to enter the Serbian market at large, and it is known that the Croatian market is closed for all other cigar manufacturers, of all the cigars sold, 90% is the influence of Croatia's Rovinj, 10% enters on the side. Second, we know what story was here. There was an alarm for these companies that bought our companies, all of a sudden they all shut up. It is also known that Mr. Polt, the American ambassador, who is known to me in New Belgrade for painting stable children's schools in yellow, and that's the most he's done, I've heard everything but that the yellow ones are stable, and that's Mr. Polt, who put pressure on Mr. Parivodic to protect the American capital that's in Philip Morris and BAT. Let me tell you right now, Mr. Parivodić, I've got here, I'm not speaking in my mind, he said there's a Croatian lobby lobby lobbying to get Rovinj into a little door there. You know who he was apostrophe for, who he had the most trouble with. With Mrs. Dulic Markovic and Mr. Zivkov. He said he had a much tighter attitude, that they were much softer in those stories. You know what this is about? The excises and the taxes. They wanted to walk in the little door of Rovinj here, not to invest a dime and get rich on our market. That's the main story, that you wanted to turn us around and not let us. What's most drastic is that Serbian, not cigarette manufacturers, but tobacco producers, will lose their jobs, their families will lose their existence. That's the main story. We are talking about something that goes as another step for the EU. We'll pass another thousand and a thousand steps, we won't live. I hope someone will live to live, but our generations won't. But now our Serbian tobacco producers are going to run out of dinars, without existence, because under the new law of 2008 these large companies are no longer obliged to buy tobacco. It's the biggest dance, it's all over the story, so they've all had a little bit of trouble, and Philip Morris and the Bat and the Croats, and in the end it's all about the story that they need to keep quiet and be privileged to them, but that's why Serbian tobacco producers get hurt in this. What's main, that's what it says, is that this law has been passed as a national interest. Now I ask and ask the question, Mr. Chairman, who has assessed this law as a national interest? Whether it is a national interest for Serbian producers to lose their jobs, their families to have no existence, to have no perspective. If it is a national interest to protect the Croatian and the import lobby, it is not an interest of the SRS. The SRS has an interest in protecting all citizens of this Serbia and Serbia's integrity and sovereignty in the first place, and it is not shown here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5578	Thank you, Mr. Sekuli. Is Comrade Rajko Baralic giving up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5579	Mr. Grouchy, as you know, socialists never give up, never give up. The fight must be to victory. In accordance with Article 225. There is a legitimate way for the National Assembly to overcome the problem that has arisen in connection with the broadcast of the direct transmission of the National Assembly. The working group, formed by the Sub-Committee of the National Assembly, which formed the Administrative Board by its decision, whose privilege I was to be a member, chaired by Mr Radojko Obradovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, gave the bill on the National Assembly. In Article 2 of this proposal, I have proposed and colleagues have accepted, so I hope you will, too, be able to paraphrase a member - The work of the National Assembly is public. The public is provided by direct TV transmission of public service. There's no controversy. The director of TV Serbia has already said once, show me the law on which public service is required to carry out the transfer. Here's the bill. The procedure is next - this should be accepted by the Administrative Board. After they have accepted the MPs when we discuss the Law on the National Assembly, to create a legal obligation to the Public Service not to prejudice us on this matter and to enforce the law. It's all in the hands of the MPs of the people, because there are people's MPs who don't say anything about this matter so they don't piss off the television. That's what they should say. Here is a respected colleague who was also a member of the Subcommittee, who I believe shares an opinion with me, in the name of the Democratic Party, it was Mrs Gordana Comic, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Radojko Obradovic and Mr Cvetkovic, who did something little boycott, but I believe that things will come where they should. So let's not play deaf phones about questions that we're able to handle on our own. And may I say, on this point, it's in our hands and our knife and our cakes. Let's not tear other people's tears away from our own problems. We can settle this in one session in 15 minutes, only the question is whether or not we will. Why does it matter? Mr. Zarko Obradovic spoke earlier about what the news on RTS, on Serbian TV last night, looked like, in news, in prime time, on political parties' involvement in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the tobacco law. Here's the thing. Minister Cvetkovic said that, that and that. The Serbian Radical Party is against the law and the point. And what about the others who represent several million Serbian citizens here? Is that a criterion? Can we, based on sympathy, based on an estimate, based on what I don't know, when I speak here, Rajko Baralić, then you should have the ability to see 30,000 full-time citizens in my name and last name, I represent them here, I am their personification in the National Assembly, here I am not private, as you are, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues. In this sense, therefore, MPs should not agree to have Serbian Radio Television wrapped up with us in this way. She can't do that. We've made two big concessions. First of all, we have provided this subscription, which is now the subject of the dispute and is a major issue of the dispute in Serbia. Secondly, in the Public Advertising Act, we gave significant benefits to the Public Service, which, both in cutting and in public advertising, and in advertising modes and in advertising types, has priority over commercial television. Enough of the mistreatment of the people's will. Mr. Tianic, I'm standing on your line, or you'll do it or we'll cancel your television subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5580	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5581	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the presentation of my colleagues, Baralic, encouraged me to say something about what the Director of the Public Service tried to do, according to the fact that I am a member of the same body in which Baralic is a member and colleague. Kolega Baralić spoke of an institute in law that could be called derogating future legal acts, according to the fact that we worked together the draft law on the National Assembly. But I would add that what Mr Tijanic tried to do is a harsh violation of already existing top legal acts in the state of Serbia that regulate the constitutional system. It is the Constitution and it is the Rules of Procedure, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it is also an equal source of constitutional law, so the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure is also a harsh violation of the constitutional and legal system of Serbia. I'll be very specific, Article 105. The Constitution, which references Article 173, 174, 175, 176, 177. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, such an attempt, have been harshly disrupted. It is understandable when members of the opposition sometimes try to play some rules, in order to achieve what the opposition should exist for in parliament, but it is very incomprehensible when those who have passed some legal acts, and the same legal acts collapse in the harshest way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5582	Thank you very much, Nebojsa. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Climate Change Law Just to give the word to the Minister, you have twice. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 149a point 3, and corresponding to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party - one hour, 16 minutes and 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus - 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes and 12 seconds, Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes and 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List for Sandzak, Roma Serbia Union of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes and 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 149a(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. Does the promoter's representative, Dr. Sasha Dragin, the environment minister, want a word? Yeah. ) The authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party is Sasa Valjarevic, and the SPS is Miletic Tica Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5583	Dear MPs and MPs, allow me to state on behalf of the Republic of Serbia the reasons for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Kyoto Protocol Act with the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. The reasons for the adoption of the legislation on the confirmation of Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change are political, legal and economical. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in June 1992, and today counts 191 members, including the Republic of Serbia, which ratified this convention in 1997. The problem of climate influence existed at the end of the 20th century is one of the key environmental problems of modern civilization. The main objective of this Convention is to ensure the stabilisation of atmospheric gas concentrations, with a greenhouse effect, at a level that would prevent an impact on the climate system, i.e. a reduction in the rate of warming of the atmosphere caused by the anthropogenic effects of these gases, thus preventing adverse impacts on biodiversity, water supply, food and energy production, as well as the basic factors of sustainable and economic development and security at international level. Starting from the principle of equality and common but also differentiated, the responsibilities of certain countries to achieve the objective of the Convention have been determined by specific obligations of industrially developed countries and countries with a transitional economy of Central and Eastern Europe in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. At the third conference of the countries Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change held in Kyoto, Japan, 1997, Kyoto Protocol was adopted alongside this Convention. Kyoto Protocol has quantified commitments for 38 industrial developed countries, including 11 Central and Eastern European transition countries, with a greenhouse effect of reducing gas emissions, on average by 5.2% compared to the reference 1990s, in the first binding period from 2008 to 2012. Quantification of reductions in greenhouse gas emissions refers to six basic gases with the effect specified in Annex a) to the Protocol, namely: carbon dioxide, methane, azotsuboxide, fluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfurhex fluoride. Development countries, including Serbia, in terms of provisions of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, including, of course, three mechanisms, the Kyoto Protocol did not impose any obligations on the general obligations set out in the Convention. Developed countries can use two mechanisms, emissions trade, a joint implementation of emission reductions and a third CDM or Clean Development Mechanism. Undeveloped countries and developing countries shall only assume obligations under Article 10 by ratification of Kyoto Protocol. Kyoto Protocol. This, in other words, means that developing countries, including Serbia, Kyoto Protocol, have not imposed any obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but it is possible that each of the countries, in accordance with their capabilities, may at any time make such a commitment by including in Annex 1 to the Convention and Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol also sets out a third emission management mechanism with a greenhouse effect. The Republic of Serbia, as Non-Anex 1 Party to the Kyoto Protocol Convention, can only use the Clean Development Mechanism. Clean Development Mechanism, in Article 12. The protocol allows developed countries to get a reduction in the share of greenhouse gas emissions by investing in clean technologies in our country. Financial support to developing countries, as part of the Clean Development Mechanism, should help these countries achieve a number of economic, social, environmental and other sustainable development objectives, such as improving air and water quality, improving land use methods, encouraging positive social effects on rural development, increased employment and poverty eradication and reducing dependence on fossil fuel imports in many cases. In addition to the role of catalysts to increase green investment in developing countries, the Clean Development Mechanism also contributes to economic development, implementation of climate change programmes and more efficient resolution of local environmental problems in these countries, which is a key incentive for voluntary participation of developing countries in clean development projects. Kyoto Protocol entered into force on 16 February 2005, and so far 171 UN member states and one regional economic organisation, the EU, have deposited instruments of ratification of accession or confirmation of the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol. It should be noted that all Southeast European countries, except Serbia, have also ratified the Kyoto Protocol. The ratification of Kyoto Protocol creates the possibility for the Republic of Serbia to contribute, within its capabilities, to a global reduction in greenhouse emissions, as well as to contribute to the reduction of local environmental pollution, as well as to a significant link with high levels of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition to the above reasons for the ratification of Kyoto Protocol, the importance of global and local action towards preventing climate change should be highlighted. These activities are becoming increasingly significant because of the negative impacts of climate change, which is a burning environmental problem, which affects not only small island countries and the most developed countries, but also the undeveloped world. Extreme climate phenomena that have occurred in Europe in recent years, such as floods, heat waves, droughts, forest fires, cold waves, have shown climate change as a particular problem present in our region. Some parts of the Republic of Serbia are also increasingly exposed to floods, land erosion, rinks, droughts and other damages of atmospheric and hydrological origin, which cause major economic damage. In this connection, it should be pointed out that the Convention and the Protocol pay great attention to the adaptation measures to the adverse impacts of climate change, in terms of aid to countries outside Annex 1, where Serbia belongs, and through the establishment of new dedicated funds for assistance under the Kyoto Protocol. Aid for both purposes is provided by developed countries. From the political point of view of the ratification of Kyoto Protocol is also important, given that the concept of sustainable development is becoming a model of socio-economic development, strengthening co-operation with the international community in the field of environmental protection is undoubtedly a very important step in terms of international affirmation of the Republic of Serbia and strengthening the role of our country's partner relations in international activities. From a legal point of view, and starting from the fact that EU accession is a strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia, the ratification of Kyoto Protocol is another clear signal that we accept European values and in the field of environmental protection, as this international treaty is included in the common European policy. The Stabilisation and Association process requires the need for the Republic of Serbia to continue implementing European standards in various areas, including the area of environmental protection, energy, increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources, agriculture, forestry, as well as rational use of agricultural land, revitalisation of forests and shaming, protection of biodiversity, and particularly forest ecosystems, waste management, which also forms the backbone of the protocol. The ratification of Kyoto Protocol, with the adoption of a package of sublegal acts relevant for climate change in the process of harmonisation of national legislation with EU requirements, is therefore one of the priorities for the Republic of Serbia on its way to EU accession. It should also point to the vital interest of the Republic of Serbia that as a country party to the Kyoto Protocol, it is included in the international negotiating process, launched in 2005 to identify new quantifications of commitments, reductions in national anthropogenic gas emissions with a greenhouse effect for the period 2013-2017, etc. Postkoto period. From an economic point of view, the importance of confirming Kyoto Protocol is reflected, above all, in the ability of the Republic of Serbia to exercise, in the capacity of the non-Anex 1 State Contracting States, its rights to the financial support of funds established under the Kyoto Protocol, as well as the right to participate in the realisation of flexible Kyoto Protocol mechanisms, and in particular to become the host country of the Clean Development Mechanism project. It has been proposed to pass laws in an urgent manner, as the adoption of the law could cause adverse consequences on the achievement of the strategic interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the work of state authorities and organisations, which were initiated by the Kyoto Protocol at the time of the ratification process in 2005. A Belgrade initiative to boost sub-regional co-operation in the Southeast Europe region in the area of climate change, with a proposal to set up a sub-regional climate centre in Belgrade as part of the hydrometeorological institution of the Republic of Serbia. The initiative also includes the priorities of the Sixth Ministerial Conference -- the Environment for Europe, the UN Economic Commission for Europe, which is held in Belgrade from 10 October to 13 October 2007. Since all other countries in the Southeast European region have already ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the adoption of a law confirming Kyoto Protocol following an emergency procedure provides political conditions for the Republic of Serbia, as a contracting party to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and Kyoto Protocol, to receive full support from the Ministerial Conference on the Belgrade Initiative on strengthening regional co-operation in the area of climate change, which is of exceptional political and economic importance for our country. Dear People's Parliaments and MPs, it is our duty to leave the planet to our children cleaner and more beautiful than we have received from our parents. You love Serbia and don't pollute the environment. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5584	Engineer Mrkonjic failed to say that he is the authorised representative of DSS-NS Milica Vojic-Markovic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Krasic. After him, the word has the authorised representative of the SRS Sasa Valjarevic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5585	I don't know what's been going on with the vice presidents since this morning, but I've been advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure a long time ago. I refer to Rule 27 and those provisions of our Rules of Procedure which speak of the mandatory public work of the National Assembly. The public work of the National Assembly is not only that no one prohibits journalists from entering, following and taking materials, but the most important segment of the public work of the National Assembly is direct TV transmissions. When someone who manages RTS by mistake, the famous Yugoslav Minister Tijanic, sends a letter to the National Assembly and says, because of some commercial obligations, we are unable to directly transfer the session of the National Assembly, then you need to resolve this RTS director at that moment. Because he makes it so clear to you and to all of us, my priority is my contractual obligations which, in effect, aim to provide some money for RTS, probably for his great authority to share, to negotiate with the production houses of the wedding, etc. He says, I'm not interested in democracy at all, I'm not interested in legislative work in the Republic of Serbia, I'm interested in money, I'm interested in funding from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If I were to invite all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, like some of them used to, and say don't pay a TV subscription, I would break the law. I don't want to do that, I don't want to break the law, but I want to draw attention to the fact that the president of the National Assembly and all those who accept this Tianic torture have shown that Tianic is the president of the National Assembly. He gives more meaning to his contract than to the State, rather than to the National Assembly, than to anything else. Tell Mr Tijanic, through your Legislative Committee or the Legislative Secretariat, that all obligations and acts stemming from the state authorities represent a higher force from the point of view of contractual obligations. But, no, that doesn't interest Tianic either. He closed the deal, he wants money, money is his life motive, not fulfilling certain obligations. Since he persistently demonstrates his self - control, practically, he prepares us for that blow when all session of the National Assembly will be in delayed TV two-minute reports in Dnevnik. If the president of the National Assembly is unable to calm Tijanic, then let him resign. Then what's going on? It happens that someone cheats on citizens and says that there is some contractual obligation, and it is known that the opposition will not be in the hall, and then Albianic reads the names of absent deputies and says, "We have successfully completed the debate in principle, we can move to the next item of the agenda." Then I conclude that, in fact, you persuaded Tianic to behave like this. If you were unable to secure a parliamentary channel, then implement the legal obligation to always be on one of these channels in direct transmission of the National Assembly sessions. While the parliamentary channel is gone, then calm Tijanic, because if that situation happens again, you are guilty, you have persuaded him to behave, you give him the right and you believe that his reasons, which he states in those letters, are justified reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5586	The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Mr. Sasa Valjarevic. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? After Mr Valjarevic, the authorised representative of DS Nada Kolundzi, then the authorised representative of the SPS, then the DSS-NS. Here you go, Mr. Valyarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5587	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to Mr. Secretary's presentation. When he stated at the beginning of his presentation that Kyoto was a signator of protocol 171 states, he did not mention that there were 30 industrial giants among them. But what did he drop? One of the important facts is that the United States is not signatories to it. I'll explain later in my presentation why they're not signatories to Kyoto protocol. Kyoto Protocol was signed on 16 February 2005. The protocol envisions reducing carbon dioxide and other dangerous gases in the earth's atmosphere by 5.2% by 2012. The dangerous gases mean first carbon dioxide and other gases from industry, transport, thermal power plants, intensive agriculture, which, many scientists argue, retain sunlight in the atmosphere and thus create so-called "sun". The effect of the glass garden and leading to the global warming of the planet. Carbon dioxide growth in the atmosphere is the main culprit for the greenhouse effect and global warming of the Earth, leading to hurricanes, droughts, floods and heat strikes, in which over the last few years life has lost millions of people. Since most of the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is released by burning fossil fuels (oil and coal), the question of finding alternative species of energy has emerged in the first place, so that it is now working to find them, such as biofuels and biodiesel, since they have a much smaller percentage of the resistance and other harmful substances that come into the atmosphere. Currently, 90 percent of the total transport and production of food, medicines and chemicals on Earth depends on oil. We are estimated to need 60 percent more energy in 2030, and oil supplies for about four decades. At the same time, UN data say, over the next 30 years, food production must increase 60 per cent globally to monitor growth. However, this will not be possible, as the greenhouse effect and global warming will significantly reduce the area of farmland. If the trend of global warming continues, the Earth's average temperature will rise by as much as 5.8 degrees by 2100. For example, from 1900 to 1990, the temperature increased by only 0.6 degrees. According to some estimates, 2005 was the hottest year in world history. How serious the situation is, that is, how much industry development contributes, the fact that so far the hottest year in history is: 1998, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. The real price of greenhouse effects is impossible to calculate and is measured by thousands of dollars. The pollution of air and water, and the result of acid rains, millions of people die. The Earth's natural ecosystem can't compensate for its damage. The essential solution for the vicious cycle between global warming, emissions of harmful gases and energy consumption is a turning towards cheaper and renewable energy from natural sources, which is from the sun, sea and wind. The sooner it reaches the minds of the heads of companies and states, the sooner the planet will avoid a crisis where millions of innocent people will die. However, it should also be noted that the European Commission has estimated that by reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 1.5 per cent per year-on-year, it will lead to a decrease in economic growth of only 0.5 per cent after 2012, possibly up to 1.5 per cent. The question is, then, how justified are the arguments of the United States not to accept Kyoto protocol, which means the weakening of their economy. That's exactly what I resented in the minister's speech, because he didn't say that the United States, which advocates globalisation, did not agree to sign the agreement, along with Australia. This military and economic most powerful country in the world is responsible for a third of life-threatening gases. Their position not to sign the agreement was defended by the fact that many signatories have neither knowledge nor resources to sign and implement the agreement, so it's more or less pointless, because something is quite different in the middle, which is profit. To them profit is more important than the future of planet Earth. Another reason is that the United States still has very dirty technology. And their latest research estimates that more than 80 percent of U.S.-based dioxins stem from the incineration of municipal and medical waste. Tons of mercury, lead, and other heavy metals are transmitted into the air. Contemporary pollution controllers on these toxic factories just move poison from air to ash, and their estimates are that one ton of ash is produced from three tons of waste. Burning is actually a real prank, it doesn't even eliminate the need for dumps. Ash dumps called "monophilis" are much more dangerous than ordinary dumps, because they are filled with concentrated extremely dangerous substances, such as dexins and heavy metals. These dumps are a lot of poison, and they have to be controlled forever. Here's an example from Europe, for example the most modern insinerator in Amsterdam, which was projected at 2,000 tons a day costing about $600 million, of which 300 million is intended to control pollution. The US Environment Agency declared the burning of medical and municipal waste to be the primary source of dioxin and the largest source of live and other toxic substances. Why do I mention all this? Last year, the SRS, i.e. the council members in Sapac and the citizens of the Sabac municipality, rebelled against the construction of an insinerator that was to be built in Sapac. So he's trying to get in our country, because they know we're economically weak and we're not able to solve the problem ourselves, the communal, and the medical and other waste, that his dirty technologies here are selling us, and that's giving us certain loans, where after that, they're going to, um, they're going to charge us economically that we won't be able to get those loans back, and other of their dirty technology is going to move us back to us. Similarly, Japan, which is one of the initiators of the Kyoto Protocol; 9 of its incinerators, means large burner rooms, moved to Thailand and Indonesia, because they are not signatories and because they are economically weak, giving them credits, or even very favourable conditions to buy that dirty technology to free themselves of this dirty technology. But that's not true at all, because the dioxin, or all the content that comes out through these insinerators, is transmitted to huge spaces by different kinds of winds, even to Europe. The United States, which not only has not signed this international document to date, has increased gas emissions for the last 10 years. That's why they won't sign it, because most of the countries in the world should invest in moving, that is, processing all their existing industrial capacities. Here's an example, at the end of the 99th year, the emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States increased by 12% and are estimated to increase by 10% by 2008. The increase in the emissions of these gases applies to other developed countries, especially Japan and Canada. However, Japan is a signator, and therefore it tries to move its dirty technology to poorly developed countries or states that are not signatories to the Protocol, which are not obliged to work on reducing gas emissions. Now something about the weakness I saw in this Kyoto protocol, which is the fact that taking measures to reduce the emissions of these gases is very expensive. On the other hand, the costs and recovery of environmental disasters resulting from global warming are much higher. Our country, which should be the signator of this Kyoto protocol, you have stated in this bill that we have no obligation to reduce gas emissions. But I don't know, Mr. Minister, if you've made it through this time, for the four months that you're in the place of the Minister of Ecology and Environmental Protection, to visit all the cities where the thermopower plants were built, since we know that Serbia has the most thermal power plant in it. As for the town of Kostolac, or the municipality of Fireman, from which I come... (President: Mr. Valjarevic, excuse me, are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. As I come from the municipality of Pogorec, which consists of two towns of Pozarec and Kostolac, 24 rural settlements, one of the most endangered cities in Serbia regarding gas emissions is the town of Kostolac. Why am I saying this? Because last year an initiative was launched to install certain power stations to reduce gas emissions. However, since we know the situation in which our country is, that we are very economically weak, we have only managed to install it on one of the power plants since the Kostolac energy system owns three power plants - Kotolac A, B and Termo Power Plant Drmno. As far as Electrane A is concerned, it's only in one 220 megawatt power plant built in. In the other two power plants, which are much stronger, which produce one-third of the electricity in Serbia, and there is the Drmno Termo power plant, these electrofilters are not installed. However, these electrofilters do not contribute to the purification of total gas emissions, but only to the reduction of ash in the atmosphere, and other gases, sulfurdioxide, carbon dioxide and other gases are not purified by these electrofilters. I know that now it's working on the level of electricity, and probably in agreement with the Ministry, there's a new law, and there's a certain amount of funds being prepared to start something on this issue. Working in electricity for over 17 years, I know that this initiative has been going on for many years and we haven't been able to realize it. And if we accept all these conditions under this Kyoto protocol, there is another problem: if we fail to implement it ourselves, which we cannot, given that we couldn't install electrofilters, let alone these much more modern systems, which are now only applied in highly developed industrial countries, if we took carbon credits, you didn't mention Mr. Minister, then we would be obliged to implement everything that is foreseen in Kyoto protocol within a certain time. If we didn't do all this, then we'd come into a situation where the state had to compensate, that means official data, a lack of carbon credit increased by 30% in the next commitment period, and we'd be suspended by similarity to trading in emission loans. That's exactly what you were talking about. Since we know that since 1990 until today, until 2007, the EU and the United States have all been excruciating this country, they have destroyed its economy, so we have only done so to reduce the emissions of harmful gases, because our economy has not worked. First, we had 10 years of sanctions, then we were bombarded, and then from 2000 to today, we were able to improve nothing about the increase in industrial production and economy. So, we're going to get into this situation that eventually, after we adopt Kyoto protocol, we're going to have to take some funds from those funds that provide Kyoto protocols, then we're going to have to go into debt slavery, where we're going to have to meet our obligations, and we're not going to be able to meet them all, and then we're going to be obliged to return 30% more back than we get from those funds that are meant for Kyoto protocol. Finally, it can be concluded, however, that the application of this Protocol is necessary and legally binding, the implementation of international obligations remains an overall problem, especially when it involves large economic costs for the signatories countries, which is what we think of. One of the solutions to this problem is strong political pressure, which is currently being done, probably from the EU, because I know that all these laws that you are proposing to us now are blindly accepting them, just to meet all the conditions so that we can join the EU. I think we still need to look at the situation as it is in our country, the situation in Serbia, the economic situation, and at all what the state all of our industrial resources are, so we don't take everything for granted, but we still need these shortcomings that I've shown you here, that is, some of the shortcomings that this Kyoto protocol has, to think carefully about, and then to join the Kyoto Protocol signing and ratify it in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5588	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5589	Mr. Obradovic, for you, Article 136 and Article 161. I would ask a representative of the government to hear what this is about, because this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure dignity and that sort of thing, but it is the very essence of the act that we are discussing today. It is not clear to me at all how someone has concluded that the conditions for this law to be found on the agenda are met. Look, please, the chapter of this bill, it was delivered to the National Assembly on July 13th, and it explains the reasons for the emergency procedure. If that was so urgent probably in July, August was months when this law had to be passed, because emergency means immediately, in a short time. The emergency does not mean over three years and the purpose of the provision of our Emergency Procedure Rules is not only a formal nature, that someone put something as an alleged reason, so it quotes what is stated in Article 161 but to prove that it exists as a reason. So if we take that time range, the proposer himself has proved that the urgency does not exist. There's another mental reason. If this was signed in 97th and then it became similar for adoption, I'm surprised why it only came now, why didn't it come before the date, maybe 98, 99, 2000, 26 January 2001, the day Serbia was lit up by a democratic government, not then. Now I'm going to tell you what the reason is and why you accept to be the subject of manipulation when it comes to this point of the agenda. The reason is because someone decided to take a picture, and it will be taken between October 10th and October 12th this year. I'm reading what you wrote. I'm not making anything up. It says - this initiative is included in the priorities of the Sixth Ministerial Conference "The Environment for Europe", the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, which will be held in Belgrade from 10 October to 12 October 2007, and someone has concluded that it would not be good for us to be leaders, promoters of the fight for environmental protection, without anyone saying - you have not ratified the Kyoto Agreement. That's why this quick procedure is going to get a picture taken. What's the political benefit?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5590	Time, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5591	I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5592	Hope of Kolundzija, authorised representative of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5593	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, as far as DS is concerned, there is no reason to assure us of the need for the ratification law of the Kyoto Agreement to be passed. So what might be our only objection, which certainly does not apply to you, and in that sense it is a commendation to you, is the fact that it has not been done before. From the point of view of the DS, the question of ratification of this law is the question, on the one hand, of Serbia's interest, whether Serbia's interests are safeguarded in this way, and, on the other hand, it is a matter of responsibility for something that is not local and something that is not the subject of this moment, but of the responsibility of this generation for the legacy it leaves to the next generations, and from that point of view, I think that Serbia has an interest, regardless of the fact that it is not a member of Annex 1, makes the effort to reduce pollution itself. So, the United Nations Framework Convention, which was adopted in 92 and which the Republic of Serbia joined in 97, is actually a basis that applies to the Republic of Serbia as well. By establishing the principles of equality and shared responsibilities related to the conservation of the environment, to preserve the planet and prevent the phenomenon of warming of the planet, what is also important are differentiated by the criteria of economic development, so specific obligations of developed countries, which are of course responsible not only for the fact that they are more developed, but also for the fact that they are larger contaminants, not only in relation to the reduction obligations, but also in relation to undeveloped countries, which is also important for Serbia. Therefore, they have an obligation to help developed countries invest in developing countries in their technological development, respecting the principles of Kyoto agreements, so-called developing countries. clean technologies. I believe that this is the key reason for the Serbian states and that this is Serbia's most effective defence against possible attempts to import dirty technologies. What is key is that 38 highly developed countries have an obligation to developing countries, including Serbia, to help technological development, making sure they are not dirty technologies. Financial support for developing countries under the Clean Development Mechanism should help these countries, including Serbia, to achieve the level of economic, social and environmental objectives, sustainable development objectives, such as improving air quality, water, improving land use, encouraging positive social effects on rural development, which is also one of the key points for Serbia, greater employment, eradicating poverty and reducing dependence on fossil fuel imports and many other cases. So what is very concrete, what Serbian citizens need to find out very specifically is that by ratifying the Kyoto Protocol, the possibility for the Republic of Serbia to, as part of its capabilities, be part of a general effort of civilization to reduce gas emissions, but at the same time have very concrete benefits that concern very specific environments and people's lives. The Kyoto Protocol will help address the problems that we have talked about very often here, which is reducing air pollution in industrial areas, such as Panchevo, Belgrade, Bor, Obrenovac, Novi Sad, Vranje, Kikinda, Kragujevac, Cačak; reducing air pollution caused by urban heating installations, so Belgrade is one of those environments; reducing air pollution from traffic in large urban areas. In addition to all of these reasons for ratification of Kyoto protocol, the importance of global and local action in preventing climate change should be highlighted. Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia, are already living the effects of global warming, and we already feel climate change that results in a threat, not only to the economic, citizens of Serbia, but to endanger their lives and to survive in certain areas, so we have slides, we have rains that are unusual, etc. In this sense, Serbia has a very clear, undeniable interest in joining the Kyoto Agreement and thus demonstrates responsibility as part of the human community that lives on this planet and whose task is not only to provide a better life for the generation that lives now, but to ensure and enable generations that come to have at least such a quality life.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5594	The word has a folk MP Zoran Krasic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then Miletic Mihajlovic, an authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5595	Mr. Obradic, same member. Since we've proven that someone from the government needs to take a picture in October and have a good face when taking pictures, so they don't suffer any inconvenience, if someone calls him, so how do you environmentalists, and you haven't ratified this, so someone designed to pull the entire National Assembly and now we're talking about some things that don't really stand. I must draw attention, in that act of yours, in Annex B, where there are additional obligations, independent of these pure development, which is general, as developed countries that should be particularly covered, are listed Bulgaria, Croatia, then New Zealand, Portugal. Let me remind you, Portugal is using the EU budget as the EU's most underdeveloped state. There is always a big dispute in the EU over access to these funds. They're very strange criteria that he's determined which country he's developed or not. I'm not objecting to this because we're not on that list, that we understand each other, but I'm merely pointing to an extremely present political moment in this area, which would have to seem too professional. She's, unfortunately, not an expert. I think that for a quality debate, Mr. Representative of the Government should explain to us on this agenda, which, probably, the Government has written, I guess, is behind the text, it comes out, dear citizens, that when this protocol is ratified in this assembly, what it means, it says - implementation of the Kyoto Protocol can help solve a number of problems like that, so that I don't quote what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said. So you in Panchev need to know when this protocol is adopted in a few days, you will no longer need to close the windows. You in Pogorevec, everywhere, in every place in Serbia, will have an ecologically healthy environment. Why? We've ratified Kyoto protocol. It's a message from this side. My message to this side is - why don't you apply our regulations? Tell me which regulation is a domestic disturbance, so you can't solve Panchev's problem. Please suggest that you immediately amend that regulation, the SRS supports you. For money contact Mladjan Dinkic and see if you can use socks, production "Key" Sarajevo, they are more reliable. So, an emergency procedure, if it were to be signed urgently, so you wouldn't be sitting in houses anymore, that's guaranteed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. You can ask them to do that because they wrote it here. Explain to us why our regulations don't apply that regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5596	The word has the mandated SPS representative Miletic Mihajlovic, and then the authorised representative of DSS-NS Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5597	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, certainly the topic that we have on the agenda today is very important, because it is actually a big, world problem, which, by its scale and its consequences, is actually a major environmental problem, and this is the global warming and destruction of an ozone layer that has very serious consequences for what life is on earth. Modern civilization, apparently, is largely lacking in ecological awareness of what is the meaning and preservation of the environment, in which life takes place as one of the greatest phenomena in what we call the universe. It is elemental that certain norms and rules are respected in each orderly society, and it is also essential and unforgivable to respect the laws of nature, whose human species is part. No matter how much science has progressed, and she will progress more and more, a man with nothing or with her will not be able to overcome nature, to be above her. He can only, by respecting her laws and by her consent, take advantage of her limited possibilities. After all, the attainment of the civilization level seems to be in reverse with respect and attitude to nature, leading to an infamous epilogue - destruction for human concepts and experience of the most beautiful oasis in the universe. In the light of the proposal for a law on the validation of Kyoto Protocol under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, facts are given in favour of its adoption, with which the SPS is in principle agreed. In fact, in the SPS programme and how we advocate a healthy environment, which includes, among other things, promoting clean technologies and the so-called clean development mechanism given here in Kyoto Protocol, which involves, of course, the use of renewable energy sources, which should be orientation and the future, as well as improving the principles of energy efficiency. Of course, it is important for our country to gain the right to financial support as a developing country, which will achieve many economic, social, environmental and other sustainable development goals that we have heard here from Mr. Minister and other party representatives. It is also clear that the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol gives our country the opportunity to contribute, within its capabilities, to the global reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and by implementing this Protocol will certainly help reduce air pollution in many industrial areas in many cities and the middle of Serbia. Of course, this does not mean that it is not necessary to think carefully about what has just been heard from the previous debater, Mr Krasic, that we laws that we have in Serbia today, which regulate this matter, are not applicable; or if they are not precise or sufficient, why we did not act on adopting or supplementing such laws. I believe that the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol in general has its own declarative function, and in fact, given that we do not have any obligation to what we will approach, we will remain in the same practice, with the same problems regarding the preservation of the environment in Serbia, with many problems facing citizens and Pancheva, and Capca and other cities. From a political point of view, this ratification is important in terms of international affirmation. We agree with that. Because this shows one capacity that we can have equal and real partnership with the international community. We also line up countries that respect the right values and standards, which is supposed to be future integrations that we often talk about here. However, there is no question in the light of this law about the issue of obstruction and opposition to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by some superpowers. This is a very important issue to deal with, because otherwise, as silent and powerless observers, we will witness the total sun of the human mind and the destruction of civilization. It's about one policy that speaks, and the other one works and, unfortunately, we as a state at this point are very often following. It's about the policy of the United States of America on global warming. In November 2001, negotiations were held by the World Trade Organisation in Qatar. By the way, there the chairman spoke, or host, that 80% of the population is using 15% of the world's resources, and that 20% of the population is using 85% of the same ones, which has to do with this topic that we're talking about today. At the same time, negotiations were under way in Marrakesh on the freshest climate change topics. It is generally known that the Kyoto Protocol's goal was to limit the emissions of six gases that produce the greenhouse effect. The outcome of the talks in Marrakesh failed to meet closely the requirements of the Environmental Protection Movement, as well as the International Commission for Climate Change, which proposed by 1990 to reduce the greenhouse emissions by 60% by 2012. Even if Kyoto protocol is fully met, it honors, it will only contribute by 5.2% reduction in emissions, delaying warming for only 6 years. Of the 39 participating countries in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, there were 38 countries present. The country that came out of the deal is the United States. Despite the fact that the United States only with 5% of the world's total population, it produces on the world market one-quarter of the greenhouse gases, meaning 11 times more than China, 20 times more than India, 300 times more than Mozambique, however, the U.S. argues that Kyoto Protocol is not fair because it excludes developing countries and acts against US economic interests. Instead of standing side by side with other countries, as they demanded after the 9/11 attack in the collapse of the Twin Tower, the United States took on... (President: Mr. Mihaylovic, use another 10 minutes. Thank you. Yes... further enhanced fossil fuel exploitation, which will increase greenhouse gas emissions by 35%. George Bush's national energy policy assumes between 1300 and 1900 thermopower plants, legal facilities for thermal power plants and refineries, the opening of parts of the national Arctic nature reserve for gas and oil exploitation, the reduction of fuel sources by 27%, the reduction of federal investment to implement energy efficiency measures. So, contrary to the intensity of modern civilization that cares about this issue. It is openly said that George Bush, with this kind of policy, returns his services to the companies that supported his campaign when he was elected; so, many companies dealing with oil, coal, gas and equipment. These connections and services must have something to do with the withdrawal of America from Kyoto protocol, but they also represent a way of life that is impossible to lead without consequences on people in other parts of the planet. Explaining the reasons for leaving Kyoto protocol, George Bush said the growing population, so Americans need more energy to heat up, more energy to cool their houses and more fuel to drive a car. Mr. Bush intended to present this statement as a fact for America, but it is primarily a future idea of the way of life, which means - that we warm our houses, before we put on a layer of clothing, to cool our houses before we open a window, because if a window is opened, it's already a big heat -- because they've contributed to that thing, to make even more fuel and above all fossil fuels. Because that's what we're gonna take advantage of, rather than others, before we cut our consumption or drive in another way. So there is one country that has the power to impose its local view of the good way of life on the rest of the world and in that power overshadows all countries, and of course our country. America, as some theorists say, is not just a lonely superpower. She has become the definitive force of the whole world. America defines what democracy is, what justice is, what freedom is, what human rights are, what is multiculturalism, what are terrorists, what are fundamentalists, what is evil. America also defines how SEE style should be managed in Smederev, and in doing pollution that contributes to increased cancer and asthma in children, not caring for the preservation of the environment, imposing their way of life and what is a way of making a profit - without any thought of protecting the environment, whose component is not only us, but also them. It's really about one consciousness where it's not just a lack of environmental consciousness, but a lack of reason. Because today it's only important to live well, only to make as much profit as possible, and what happens tomorrow can be the world's ruin. Also, America defines, for example, that ammunition with poor uranium can be used in war conflicts. This was done during the aggression against the SRJ, especially in Kosovo, in 1999. This use of uranium in ammunition at that time can be reduced to what two bombs were dropped on Hiroshima, meaning, with such a mutagenic fact, a teratogenic fact and other species. Of course, it goes on a social deadline, because the consequences of radioactivity are not present but in the future, through generations and generations will leave what is wrong and it will only be seen. The rest of the world, including Europe, simply has to comply with these definitions and follow American leadership. What could better illustrate this imperial power than what is currently happening, figuratively speaking, is that the local language of Americans becomes a global grammar. The attempt to define globalism, as a multilayer and complex process and coordinated multilateral action, in the interest of all nations and citizens of the world, is far from real. Now we know that America's unilateral decision to withdraw from the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse emissions is much more important to the global climate than any multilateral agreement made by other countries. However, the environment does not necessarily have to be a victim of globalisation, as is the case now. It can be a tool of globalisation in a way that the local ideas of environmental protection are globalized to turn it into general ideas. It takes strength, it has to have arguments, it has to respect the laws, and it has to go that way. So what is locally positive in Serbia can be as global as an idea and as the goal of the whole world, for example, what is Zlatibor, what is Divcibare, what is Kopalnik, what is Petrovac on Mlavi with its environment, what is Serbia in the most part. The question, however, is whether we can achieve such an idea with a relationship to nature, which today is not respected and not respected as it deserves and what it needs for the sake of life today in Serbia and for future generations. The question is why are we talking here, in addition to what it is and what we agree it's good at Kyoto Protocol, etc., and why we need to access Kyoto Protocol, why we're dealing with the issue of America, etc. There are really many reasons, from the fact that globalisation seems only good to a small number, especially to American citizens, to the fact that, by looking closely at all things on this planet, they see themselves, on their way to achieving absolute power and domination, and using many of their assistants and servants who pay. Why is it necessary to hear the voice of others, why are we talking about it? You need to talk about this this this way. In all parliaments, in all countries, all intellectuals should raise their voice and, of course, those who are not bought, it is necessary that the Academy of Science, the world of science, say their thought and in such a way with one strength of argument from the highest place, and intellectual and formal, to put pressure on such superpowers, which look unilaterally and that go astray and wrongly. Therefore, this issue should certainly be discussed more because it is, in fact, the essence of the problem. The least problem is for the Republic of Serbia to sign the Kyoto Protocol along with this Framework Convention, and we have formally or on paper met certain requirements, met certain requirements of the international community, and in fact this Kyoto protocol further manipulates and achieves what is only in the interests of other countries, and to the detriment of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5598	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5599	Mr. Dulic, these are members of 225 and 226, and in relation to Article 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have been practically exposed since October 5th to one pressure to be told about all the nebuloses in politics, so that's real politics. Between those two words, that is, after those two words, you can put a sign of equality and say the United States. A value criterion, a measure of will, a measure of strength, a criterion for all - USA, USA. Since you're from the DS, I assume you're some Democrats, since this party is recognizable by what follows this way of thinking real politics, so it just seems to me that when someone in the White House is crying, right now the leading Democrats here is so bad that they get pneumonia. Did you agree to this Kyoto protocol so they wouldn't bomb us? Is this you sticking your finger in America's eyes? You know, I appreciate that someone decided that between October 10th and 12th to take a picture at the Sava Center, that's where this conference is going to be, so we need to bring this. But whose policy you're following. If you follow the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then apply our regulations, we do not need any Kyoto protocol. You know, don't make white-world politics clear for me. Now we're going to warn the Americans. Ecology is a global problem. They pollute there, we feel here. They're having an argument with each other over there or having a sexy affair with Levinski, this one's bombing us. We're small. From the point of view of these chemical formulas and the compounds that are mentioned here, from the point of view of what's in Annex 1 and 2, so we're ozone, people. It seems a little strange to people from Panchev and from a place where air or water pollution is highly expressed, but from the planet's point of view, so we're ozone, people, in every respect we're ozone. Those who wrote this Kyoto protocol didn't write it because of Serbia wrote because of those who, based on these black and dirty technologies, provide their development and probably make beautiful... Mr. Krassic, time. ) It's only been five seconds, I think it's gone wrong, it's like six, it's only been five seconds. They didn't do it for us, they did it for them. Why? To prevent some from achieving that concept of gold billion. Probably those in that melting pot in America are doing everything according to all the gold billion projects, which means one billion lives well, and these others have to do everything in order for them to live well. Of course, America, for the sake of the good life of its citizens, takes care of the good life of its citizens in the first place, is able to invent new professions, invent even new products, anything to do only to make sure that they eat peanuts, watch TV, grow, be quiet, have no unrest, no earthquakes, and what America will do in the world, they don't care at all, because the news lasts about 15 minutes, how long it takes CNN to rephrase it once or twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5601	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5602	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I thank my colleague Krasic, who has so charmingly brought a little laughter into these very dark topics and forecasts today. I want to say one thing that's just a fact. In recent years, I don't think there are any citizens of our Serbia who haven't wondered what's going on with the climate. It's still in our memory the hot summer we had, where temperatures went over 40 degrees, and in cities above all that, then we had huge droughts, fires. If we remember the spring of 2006, then we had great floods and heavy rains. If we look through the media at the climate picture in the world, we don't see any big difference, same hot waves, enormous colds, floods, fires. So the picture of the world in the climate is not at all pink. I think it's past the moment when we have to face ourselves and ask each of us what each and every one of us can do together, and we can fix the situation or at least partially get it under control. That is why I was very happy that, as an MP in the previous term, I was part of the majority who voted on a set of environmental laws, the first laws of those in our country, which prepared several other extremely important contracts, including this Kyoto, and to thank the current minister who showed that it was possible to continue on one normal path. So, where someone stopped, it continues, because it is in Serbia's interest and in the interest of the future of our children and this country. What is Kyoto Protocol, and how did this document ever happen? The anthropogenic effects on the climate is something that's really been a fact many years ago, and if we look at a little history, we'll see that cataclysms have happened and in some times that have been far - far ahead of us. However, this problem is very important and the United Nations dealt with this phenomenon during 1988, 1989, and brought four United Nations General Assembly resolutions, and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted in Brazil in 1992. This Convention was to ensure the stabilisation of atmospheric gas concentrations with a greenhouse effect at the level at which it would not be harmful to climate change, in fact, would not lead to accelerated warming of the atmosphere, which could all contribute to a positive water supply balance, in the formation of biodiversity, in food production, energy and so on. This Convention defines the principles on which global level activities are based in the area of climate change. There are specific obligations that it defines and which relate to reducing greenhouse gas emissions for highly developed industrial countries and especially for developing countries, such as Serbia. Highly developed countries are covered by the so-called Anxom1. This Convention and the need to provide material assistance and assistance in economic development, the ecological development of developing countries, in a way that forms specific funds or specific funds established by this Convention. Since this Convention does not offer a very special way to achieve all of this, namely to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Japan, in 1997 the Protocol that is part of this Convention was adopted in the city of Kyoto, which is actually a part of this Convention and which now defines these specific things that the Convention has failed to achieve. What does it matter? It is important because it is very precise that compared to the 1990 reference year, the concentration of greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 5.2% between 2008 and 2012. This protocol came into force in 2005. It was ratified by 171 countries. Of course, here several speakers have already pointed out that the United States had no interest in ratifying this, which is totally consistent with how they've been developing since the beginning of this country, because those who lived in harmony with nature and who knew about environmental science about everything, the Indians, in that way, have not learned anything about this direction. When we say that Serbia needs to ratify the Kyoto Agreement, we say it will have no specific new obligations, as a developing country, but will, of course, have obligations it has signed in that part that requires the convention. So, no new obligations protocol imposes upon what the Convention requires, and these are some perfectly normal things that every country must have if it wants to plan its future in the field of ecology, such as making a national report on greenhouse gas inventory – we do not, of course, have, and would be fortunate to have; then, periodic reports to the bodies of the Convention, then international co-operation in the field of climate research, which we certainly need to engage and what can certainly contribute to us. Several more speakers have said this fact that I want to mention now, but it has not led to the end, and it refers to the fact that developing countries do not commit themselves to reducing the emissions of these gases, but no one defends that if they assess and assess that they need it, that is, in their interest, they simply engage in it and act under those circumstances that Annex 1. asks highly developed countries. So if we're lucky enough to think about it that way, I'd be very happy to be in a situation where we say yes, we want to cut it down, because then not tomorrow or the day after, by ratification of this convention, but the citizens of Panchev will breathe more peacefully and all the other citizens in our country because in larger industrial centres, and even in smaller cities, there are big problems about this. Kyoto Protocol offers three types of gas emissions trading mechanisms with a greenhouse effect and I would not place the accent on the first and second because they are not the subject of our attention, since they refer only to the countries of Annex 1. The most interesting thing to us is so-called. Third mechanism, so-called The Clean Development Mechanism, because it allows us to get to the funds that have been created, has just been made by developed countries to help developing countries, in the form of greenfield investments, which I think is the most important thing for developing countries because we have had one period when truly highly developed countries wanted us to, to say the least, to get their dirty technology into us and to lead us to even bigger problems in the field of environmentalism. What do we get out of it? We create an opportunity to host the Greenfield investment projects and thus get a number of positive effects. First of all, we create a series of macroeconomic effects through sales of certified emission reductions. Then, we attract foreign investment, improve knowledge transfer and clean technologies in the environment, increase the employment of our population and build our capacities more efficiently. To simplify, in fact, we hire our people, reduce poverty, really contribute to improving quality and water and air and land. I think it's a very big capital that we can get through it. When we talk about the second aspect of the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, it refers to a series of possibilities that we are getting back, which is to reduce air pollution in industrial centres, which is what more speakers said in front of me, and I think we need to potential, because we actually have a major problem and there's almost no city, regardless of the size, when I say, I mean Lucane, Obrenovac, of course Belgrade, of course, that really have a big problem with this. Then, reducing air pollution caused by heating installations. I come from Valjev, and when winter comes you can't see Valjevo when you enter that city, it's completely in smoke, the concentration of gases is extremely high. Since 2000, this has been measured for the first time and has proved to be a practical concentration of exhaust gases and all harmful gases as if they were measured on the 29th of November in Belgrade. The third problem that is our big problem, and we can contribute to reducing this problem, is to reduce air pollution caused by traffic in large cities. I mentioned that famous street. The third aspect of the ratification of Kyoto Protocol refers to the importance, and I would say the necessity of global and local action towards preventing climate change. There is almost no element of climate change that has occurred in Europe without happening in our country as well. When I say that, I mean the last hot summer, the droughts and the fires we had problems with and we managed to eliminate somehow. On the other hand, we have specific problems that are related to certain parts of our country, such as Banat, which has this specific problem called drought, and the Kyoto Protocol offers a number of measures that help adapt such environments to negative climate change in various ways, through direct assistance, but also through material assistance, economic assistance from various funds that are set up just to help in such situations. The fourth aspect of the signing and ratification of Kyoto Protocol refers to political nature, politics, and above all to show that we are a serious partner, that we are a country that wants to respect high European standards in the environment. I would very much like to get to some level to really respect the standards that apply, and first of all I would say in Scandinavia, because they really take care of their countries and really take care of their children and their futures. We also show that we want to live as part of the family of European peoples and that we can be part of that family. If we look from a legal point of view, by ratifying Kyoto Protocol, we are engaged in some future from 2013 to 2017, when we can still enter negotiations on reducing gas emissions over our country. In this way, we are practically entering a story where the EU is asking the signatories to reduce gas emissions very radically by as much as 30%, which is the great dream of all of us. What else is important to say? The Ministerial Conference, which will take place in our country next month, was mentioned here several times in October 2007. I think she had this little negative sound that I felt, and I don't think she deserved it, because it's a great honor for our country. It seems to me that another thing that we launched before this conference should be quality at the conference, and it concerns Serbia's initiative to set up a sub-regional climate change centre for Southeast Europe. I think it's a big deal we can get, we should win, and we deserve to get it. The proposal is, as a priority, included in the frameworks of the Sixth Ministerial Conference. We need to bring this thing to an end and get more quality in protecting our environment. Another big thing that's big for me, maybe you won't agree with me, is the topic of the conference, it's the environment for Europe. Given the possibility of strengthening regional co-operation, above all in the field of scientific knowledge, technical knowledge, it seems to me very important that before this conference we are signatories of the Kyoto Protocol, because I don't see anything wrong with this country thinking about its future, that it thinks about what its children will drink, what its children will eat and where we will cultivate all this, because I think it is an economic incentive for this country. I think from what I've said, the DSS-NS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5603	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word application, in writing, with the order of MPs submitted parliamentary groups: DSS-NS Dr Vojislav Kostunica, G17 Plus, SPS, SRS, LDP and DS. All MP groups. I give the word to the Messenger of the people Vesna Pesic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5604	Dear MPs, MPs, on behalf of the LDP, I would like to point out that the three-year parliament in Serbia has not passed any laws relating to ecology and that this is the first law to be passed after three years. We're glad it's Kyoto protocol, which, as we all know, we've been waiting very long. I'm not going to attribute it to the president of the Assembly Committee, Cedomir Jovanovic, probably not that credit, but here's the coincidence that after three years we have this important protocol that needs to ratify our assembly. I think that even the predecessors have talked about the significant advantages Serbia will have to ratify this protocol, I would like to highlight the very important foreign-political importance of this protocol. We can hear in different ways how we have big opponents of globalisation in Serbia, but of course when you're not inside then you're always against it, and only when you go in there is you actually get some right to criticise this kind of developed world and then it has a much greater effect than when you're out of it. I'd like to point out the importance of foreign policy. Someone has already mentioned the mechanism of this protocol relating to the Clean Development Mechanism, and I think that directly refers to the benefits that Serbia will benefit from such a global law. Since there are neither developed, nor undeveloped countries suffering from climate change, but we all suffer because of this, because of warming and climate change, does not affect this or that country, this is indeed, in my opinion, a global law that is in the interest of all and that has taken care of the interests of all. If we see that developed countries have far greater financial obligations when it comes to warming, so they have to get much larger quotas to reduce the transmission of harmful gases in terms of glass gardens, carbon dioxide, methane and others, and the underdeveloped have a smaller obligation to participate, and they don't even have to participate. What's a real benefit or the benefit of this mechanism? The benefit is that they can transfer their quota to developing countries or to undeveloped countries. They can fill their quota by helping, finance other countries that are less developed to do so. There is a great chance that Serbia will receive significant financial resources in these foreign relations. I don't think we should convince our citizens anymore, many of them suffering from major pollution, such as Panchevo, Bor, Sabac, like many, as mentioned in Valjevo, people can't live more than that, we get sick far more. There is no more reason to convince anyone how much Serbia is affected by pollution and how much these financial funds will contribute to developing countries being able to finance underdeveloped or less developed which do not have enough resources to fight pollution, which is logical. That's the first one. It seems to me that citizens may not know what we're talking about here, but this explains that this global problem, but also by global application, we get this effect that Serbia should never miss. Of course, by adopting this protocol in the Serbian Parliament, we have shown our political will to want to join the EU. For the feasibility study, this is our obligation, and also for the national approach strategy of the EU, this should be highlighted. Citizens may not know, but of those 40 EU accession laws, the most important laws in this area are. There's nothing without the law on environmental protection. This shows how much we really adopt and adopt EU values. So I'm just pointing out the importance of this law. Now I'm just going to point out a few problems and I'm going to end it. It seems to me that the main problem is that the legislator of this law is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and implementation should be cared for by the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and others are mentioned, as around all state authorities should participate. I think it would be better if we could say which state body participates in the application, because for all the laws that we make in the Assembly, we know that law enforcement is the biggest problem. We can pass the most ideal laws, but after that there is no application and these laws fall into the water. So this law also suffers from it, which does not provide for effective implementation, so it is my first remark that generally applies to this law, and then we have to say that there are various projects that are going to have to be made, that a national strategy should be made in this area. We already have, great. Either way, you have to know exactly who's going to be in charge. As far as I know, we have obligations under the Energy Community Treaty. It's a good thing the Ministry of Energy is here, but I'm sure it would be good to know a little bit more about that implementation. So these funds that my predecessors spoke of and I insist on, where Serbia can profit, don't stand so that we can just get them. In order to obtain these funds, relevant projects must be made and these projects must be monitored. So that's what I'm drawing attention to. If the implementation is not clear enough, the money we are talking about, and it really is very important for our citizens, it will not come unless these projects are made. I ask the Ministry to answer these questions that I have asked, because these are very important questions for the implementation of such an important protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5605	The People's Messenger, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Ivan Zivadinović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5606	We have certainly heard a lot about the Kyoto Protocol and the doubt whether or not this protocol should be signed. I would begin my presentation with one finding: that anyone who has a positive attitude towards himself and his natural environment can really not deny one such act as the Kyoto Protocol. That's what I often want to remind myself, that the human relationship to the environment is, in some way, a relationship to myself. As much as he respects his surroundings, he respects himself. It's that human and sincere aspect of seeing this problem. Unfortunately, today we have to look at the other side of the medal, because it must not be ignored, which is the fact that one of these protocols, this kind of project is made up of the light of the new world order, and unfortunately, in the new world order, the big ones write documents and the big ones write the rules for small ones, and they don't have to abide at the same time. Every time such a document is made, it gets a merciful expression, it gets a name behind which something beautiful is hidden, and essentially a raw substance and one substance that is not very good for those who are small is hidden. Now let's explain, let's look at what this document actually offers. First of all, one of the facts is that Serbia does not belong to the countries covered by the Annex first, which means that it is practically denied the right to trade in harmful greenhouse gas emissions, which means it will not be able to participate in the Common Implementation Mechanism, but will therefore have the right to participate in the Clean Development Mechanism. Why doesn't he have the right to trade in gas? That's not exactly explained. I guess maybe the show of trade will be cheaper than something we're offered. Now we're going to analyze the second example. Serbia also has no obligation, under this protocol, to reduce the concentration of harmful greenhouse gases, especially for the commitment of the first period from 2008 to 2012, and then to raise the question whether Serbia will lose or win. We'll try to find some logical answer to all that. What is the fact that today and from which we have to start, is that Serbia is still another uninfreded environmental system, yet another clean ecological system. Unlike such an ecological system, on the other hand, we have ecological systems that are now completely spent. Some are reversible, some irreversible, and it refers precisely to those countries with the most developed and developed economy and technology. That's why the question is raised why the strongest ones, the biggest ones didn't want to sign a document like this, and, on the other hand, why are those who are strong, but still can't run some world processes, still decided to sign a document like this? Because, practically, developing countries, third-world countries, which have uninfringed ecological systems, can be used precisely in one such function. America has made it clear that she is the world leader, that she is no longer interested in anyone to get justice, she does not want to sign it. She does not want to give financial aid to other underdeveloped countries because it is not worth it. It is known that a large dollar for one invested must be paid back at least five. They also have no intention of reducing the emissions of their harmful gases, as reducing the emissions of these harmful gases will go precisely to reduce their working processes, to reduce their industry, and that will reduce their profits, the race in industry and everything. It was they who wanted to impose the problem of monitoring the concentrations of these that are intermediately, meaning also developed countries, which have found their interest in achieving precisely in our ecosystems what they couldn't do without our ecosystems, so they promised to finance the construction of industry in undeveloped ecosystems. Yes, there are funds, but the question is whether these funds will come true and how they will help developing countries. In fact, I believe that behind this lies what is still being done in Serbia today, that the very potentials of these countries will use developed countries to increase their profits and in some ways acquire benefits. Why do I say that? First of all, there is a new trend in the world, which refers to these undeveloped countries, developing countries, where developing countries can offer cheap labour, they can offer a large market, and what do they get from the developed ones? They get, but not money aid, not help in cash, but in some technologies that are either dirty technology or are less or more modern, while the most modern technologies remain in these countries of origin. That's what to pay attention to when considering signing a document like this. For Serbia, too, as to why the law should be adopted, it clearly states that the most important political reasons are why Serbia will sign this protocol and that it is, in fact, another condition that Serbia must meet in the process of its Euro-Atlantic integration, which will receive its political reward. A little pre-election campaign that has already begun should be used along the way, so an international event, called the Sixth Ministerial Conference, will be organised for the citizens of Serbia, titled "The Living Environment for Europe". It is an environment for Europe, because virtually Europe will continue to live on account of our untapped and unpolluted ecological systems. One fundamental question arises: what does humanity get by signing a protocol like this when they are the greatest and the strongest do not want to sign it? All the things the Russians signed, it wasn't signed by the ones that are the greatest contaminants. We have already had the opportunity of these strongest not to respect not only what they signed long ago, so for example they do not respect the UN Charter, we know what their relationship to Kosovo's status is also, so they signed that it will not be repeated to Hiroshima and Nagasaki, so they repeated in 1999 both Hiroshima and Nagasaki, causing the largest ecological disaster in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, and when uranium dust rose not only from two cities but from who knows how many cities and villages across Serbia. We don't know exactly what that data is. Another question arises, will humanity survive its technological development or will its technological development lead mankind to suicide? It's one big question, because even though it's known that there are no isolated environmental systems and that every change in them is a global character, it's going to turn out that humanity is going to kill a great one, and it's going to be a small one. Just in the end as a doctor, I want to remind the citizens of Serbia, and first of all, to appeal to those who can influence, I agree that this document should be signed, but it should be an argument for those who do not want to sign. We know, statistics exist, that the rate of malignancies increases year after year. Unfortunately, younger people are getting sick. What's the point? It is essentially a mutation of cells, exactly what this ecological modern situation can be accused of today. We're getting new diseases. Did anyone remember that Sida is a new disease? It was a misunderstanding whether Sida was artificially synthesized in labs or if the virus mutated in nature. With this knowledge and this condition in the ecosystem, it's easy to believe that the virus, which attacked only monkeys, mutated and moved on to man. Also, sudden climate change can also affect the cardiovascular system. Man, even though he is the most adaptable organism on the planet, can't keep up with the pace of developing these changes, so let's not wonder if they're more common and why heart attacks, arrhythmias, and other diseases. Unfortunately, the question arises whether humanity can give up both fossil fuels, and deodorant, and drugs, and refrigerators, and air conditioning, and spray, even though NASA is following with a bitter track of what happens to ozone holes in Antarctica and all others, but it is a question of whether humanity will be able to overcome its weaknesses and its current pleasures.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5607	Thanks, buddy. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5608	Mr. Dulic, these are the same members I've been calling for since this morning, so 136, 225, 226, and of course this government is silent. Since we proved this morning that it is an emergency procedure for taking pictures from October 10th to 12th, I think after all these discussions, Vojislav Kostunica needs to explain to us what this is really about. I'm just afraid this protocol doesn't have some secret annex. That would probably be, according to some nomenclature, Annex 3, and I'm guessing that in that annex the 3rd is standing -- who by the year 2008, on January 1st, doesn't confirm this protocol, all other countries are going to make a coalition and bomb it. I'm just afraid someone's bringing us into war with America. Although this emergency procedure, whether by accident or on purpose, also coincides with the change of the US ambassador to Serbia. Paul Polt left, this other Cameron came, so I'm interested if there is such a secret agreement and a secret annex, what are Serbia's obligations, since we don't have any planes that could fly across the state border. We don't even have tanks, it's all Sartide melted. The Americans destroyed our entire army, so they destroyed the army because of some secret agreement that binds us when we approach this. We may not know it now, because in those international agreements, which had their own public domain, there was also that secret domain. I'll demonstrate it to you on a few examples. You remember the Dayton Agreement and everything that happened in Serbia about whether it should be accepted, whether it should not be accepted, etc. Logically, those who advocated not to accept it were defeated. Do you know why? Because no one from the international community I talked to about the Dayton Agreement told me about an international act that was binding, but told me that it was one act that Bill Clinton was supposed to make a good strategic position for the new elections, because at the time it was a big affair that someone else set up for him there. When we refer to the Dayton Agreement and its annexes in which the Constitution is located, etc., they say - it is not valid. The second example is Resolution 1244. You saw for yourself, those who swore to her, forced her on us, said, "It's no longer valid." What's up? It's their will. So I doubt there's anything here that we don't know, maybe someone in the government knows. I don't want to bomb American citizens, to tell you the truth, I wouldn't give support, although I'm not sure for you, I mean the authorities and these riots, because you've invited them to continue with NATO bombing - seven more days, so the regime will fall. You might as well try to clarify this question if there's another secret annex we don't know about. We can ask the minister. Thank you. I don't think the minister knows, you know. The one in charge who's supposed to take pictures between 10 and 12 at this conference here, and I hope it's not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5609	No, no. Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5610	Mr. President of the National Assembly, you weren't here before noon, so I wasn't in a situation to address you, and I wouldn't want to do it without you present. This applies to you and to the obligations that you have established by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you should be the first to apply it and give us a good example of how we should do it. Because if you do not apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then don't be surprised at the other MPs for interpreting in their own way the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and trying to speak to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about certain topics. Namely, it's about article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the obligations of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which reads that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is doing other tasks foreseen by law, in addition to the rest of the rules of procedure, of course. Article 113. The Law on Local Self-Government is explicit and says in point 3: "The President of the National Assembly is calling elections for committees within three months of the day of the disbanding of local self-government units." Not if he wants to, whether he likes it or not, he has to call the election. Of course, there's another attitude, but in this case it's absolutely not important because the president of the National Assembly can do it. Elections for representatives of the Leskovac Municipality's Parliament, as the case is, were held at the end of last year. Mr Predrag Markovic, by respecting the rules of the Rules of Procedure, called elections for the local self-government assembly, although it was obvious that there would be others, but it was another story. The elections were held, the assembly was unconstituted and the government of the Republic of Serbia decided on 12 April 2007 to introduce temporary measures in the Leskovac Municipality Assembly and from that day on, temporary administration with the president of the municipality, elected in November 2006. The SPS believes that the introduction of an emergency administration into the Municipality of Leskovac on 12 April is a sufficient reason, given that three months have passed, to introduce the coercion of the administration. What does a forced administration look like? I have here certain documents, a list was made of how a coalition composed in a temporary majority works by party, believe it or not. The systematicisation of the jobs in Leskovac is precisely indicated, what to whom and how much it should belong. I'm saying this because all the parties that are represented are, of course, party ruling coalitions - DSS, DS, G17 Plus and New Serbia, so that someone doesn't think it's a third, fourth or fifth, and it's exactly what anyone should get. Someone convince me that this is the functioning of local self-government in a way that provides for the Law on Local Self-Government. It definitely extends the duration of these congregations beyond the law and allows a group of people to replace the work of the assembly on behalf of the Assembly, but only three months after that, the elections are discussed, that the clear and the clothes and the passing of the citizens and their electoral will regulate relations in the municipality of Leskovac. I think there are other people in this assembly who can confirm these words of mine, that the state in local self-government is very bad, that the government has no reason, that the President has no reason to extend this irregular situation and that it should, by respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the provisions of the laws that provide for and empower him, to call elections for local self-government units, so let the citizens of Leskovec decide who will then regulate local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5611	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Cvetanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleague Obradovic, this is obviously a complex question and needs a complex answer, you're partly right. Twice, the president of the municipality in Leskovac was of the DS ranks, and a temporary body was introduced twice in Serbia's largest municipality. I have to say that in the beginning, when the interim body began to operate this current year, it was first only the representatives of the DSS and New Serbia, although in the local elections of 85 committees only got four committees, let's say against the SRS who had 17 committees, versus you who had nine committees, etc. Later they apparently saw that parity was not adequate and then the SPS, along with the SCI, entered to be part of the temporary organ. So we have the condition that the government of the Republic of Serbia three times in a few months changes the composition of the provisional organ. The composition now consists of a president who is from the DSS, I repeat that they have only four board members of 85,G17, DS and New Serbia. What you wanted to present to the National Assembly earlier, it is the need for jobs by political parties, and that would have been strange if it hadn't been for the previous time for the Minister of Local Self-Government, Mr Markovic, who found that the impasse municipality had the largest number of employees, over 500. If European standards per 1,000 inhabitants are one official, and if the woodworking municipality has 160,000 inhabitants, it is about 200 employees. When the president of the municipality, Mr Marinkovic of the DS took office, he gave a report and orders to all directors who were mostly from other political parties not to hire any. Afterwards, Mr Markovic noted that 500 employees have a surplus in municipal administrations, then there is an order from the president of the DS to each administration by September 7th of the year that the list of employees who want to leave the post voluntarily, followed by the need for jobs by political parties, 82 persons are on the list, of which more than 40 from the DS, and these remain from the G17, DSS and New Serbia. It's just amazing that you have a temporary body where a gentleman from the DSS is chaired, twice the local elections were under the new system and they never had a candidate for the president of the municipality. So much for their authority and for the people who come from that neighborhood. Obviously, earlier, when the president of the assembly was Mr. Markovic from G17, he could have called the elections later, you are absolutely right there, but the right of the chairman is to choose the right moment, the best climate for the political option he represents. Since it has been absolutely all the time of tolerance, it is high time for the President of the Assembly to call elections, not only in Leskovec, but in all municipalities where the temporary authority is in office. If he doesn't, I'm sure he'll have political consequences first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5613	The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here's someone who's come from Užica where there's been a temporary organ since 16 November last year, I'd have something to say on this subject, but the Kyoto Protocol law is something that I think is more important to our country as a chemist. This technical law has also caused both the position and the opposition to express their views on it, but I believe that Serbia will not have any harm, but only benefits. I also urge the representatives of the opposition, who have also criticised this poor attitude of America under this protocol, to vote for the Kyoto Protocol. I think this law, more specifically the Protocol, was due to be passed in parliament on 16 February 2005, but unfortunately we had intensive legislative activity and some other obligations that we should have done. But I will remind all respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament that the Law on the Protection of the Environment, with four other laws from that area, adopted in 2004, practically covered part of the Kyoto Protocol, and it says that all existing industries in Serbia can remain in such a state by 2014, with such emissions, and that after 2014, they have to move on to clean technologies, and of course all new investments that come into this country must be fully in accordance with European legislation, which, of course, includes the Kyoto Protocol, since the European Union is a signator of the Kyoto Protocol and, of course, all member states. Kyoto protocol does not define the problems of the ozone envelope, as some colleagues have just commented. Kyoto protocol is related only to the greenhouse effect and the problem of carbon dioxide gas emissions, methane, azotsuboxide, means fluorinoid compounds SF6 and perfluoride, which cause the greenhouse effect. It is unfair that only the greenhouse effect is being accused of global warming currently under way. If you have read Milutin Milankovic's works, and here we have a fellow physicist who will explain it much better than I do, he has explained these things to some other phenomena, in relation to the distance of the sun and the path of the earth around the sun. The ice age and the mini ice age of the past appeared. Droughts are also something that now happens to us safely as a consequence of such a relationship, not just the effect of the glass garden, but as someone who deals with environmental protection, I believe that this impact should be minimised. Kyoto protocol requires obligations for industrial countries to financially help those less developed. Serbia is unfortunately in another category, and apart from that 10,000-euro commitment per year, which we will have to pay for the conference, we will not have any other costs, but will likely benefit. Something that would be interesting for you, and not exploited in public, two years ago, Croatia tried to take part of our Obrenovac-based gas emissions from Termoelectrica Tent to take over its quota, but thanks to the urgency of the people of the current Ministry of Science and Environment, Serbia has managed to defend itself and that quota will remain ours. This is another proof that if you do not have Kyoto Protocol, if you are not signatories, then they can do whatever they want with you, and we believe that Serbia is one responsible state. We have the ambition to enter E, here is law and order, and then we have to defend not only our national interests, but also the interests that come from the resources that we exploit. The Kyoto Protocol in Serbia will also bring new investments, not only for those mentioned reasons that we are cheap labour here, but also because we belong to a group of underdeveloped countries and we are more favourable to investment than some of the countries that have been developed. Of course, Kyoto protocol this country and this parliament will have to support some other legal and sublegal acts, and we expect this Ministry of Environmental Protection to deliver these acts more intensively and that there will be much greater interest in this area, not only from you MPs, but also from the media, because only changing the legislation Serbia needs to do is probably one third of the total work that we need to do to join the EU. G17 Plus will vote in favour of this law, as this law will certainly help Serbia enter the EU more easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5615	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Valjarevic Sasa reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5616	Article 226. Listening to the careful exposure of his colleagues from other parliamentary groups, I can see that from the ruling coalition everyone in a twisted shoreland must not say anything about the United States and the world's greatest polluter. Why? I would ask the question of the minister; Serbia signed the Kyoto Protocol and came into force, and all of these provisions that we have said so far come into force; how are you going to force Ju-es style, or the United States to respect Kyoto protocol when they are not signatories, and we know that they are the biggest contaminants in the Danube region, even Braničevski's gas emissions are coming in, and we know that the entire agricultural combination is destroyed. At the insistence of the citizens of the Danube region, where two monitoring stations have been set up from the village of Radinac and surrounding villages around the Ju-es style, and then the Ministry of Ecology and Environmental Protection, in agreement with the Ju-es style, continues to respect certain emissions of gases that should be allowed, because it is much higher in the atmosphere than it is allowed under our law, and not just under Kyoto protocol. I'd like you to give me an answer to that question about how you're going to succeed, because they're not going to sign it because we know that Jellyzara didn't work before. When they bought Jelizara, which they received for $13m, and the estimate was much higher, there are now mentions of various affairs about where Minister Vlahovic then participated in the sale of Sartide, that they said that the most modern technology would be applied, that they would hire people, and with that beautiful story of theirs, that if we agreed to all their conditions, that Serbia would move forward towards Europe, towards the world, towards developed countries, and none of which happened, but we got another huge contaminant. And that's what citizens themselves can see when they get past Sartide himself, when they see what amount of emissions coming into the atmosphere during the operation of Sartide and the hardware industry itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5617	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Cholic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5618	Ladies and gentlemen, based on Article 226. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have a moral obligation, as an MP from Smederev, to mention this item of the Kyoto Protocol agenda a word about the situation which and how the citizens of the village of Radinac, Vranovo and Ralja, which are located near the Ju-es style or earlier Sartide. The fact is, Ju-es style of taking over Sartide doesn't care about environmental pollution. It is also true that local self-government, and currently the current situation in Smederev, is that temporary measures have been introduced and temporary higher, such a mild, plusy warns management of the Ju-es style. It is also true that citizens are concerned, bitter and often initiated solving this problem through a resolute ministry. It is also true that children because of air pollution, the environment, the land, the river Konjska, are not a large river, small, local, yes, yes, yes, that's exactly what it's called, it's not funny to me, it's a Serbian river, it's all funny to you yellow people, it means that children are sick and it's hard to explain to their mother whose child gets asthma from the first year of life. The gas emissions my predecessor spoke of, SRS MP Mr. Valjarevic Saša, are some of the gases that are being broadcast daily, but it's hard to determine the origin, we don't believe it's from the production of Sartide, and it's a real mystic to figure out what's going on at Sartide, what's being said, it's drowning, and as a product, it's going to be pollution. Well, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, Article 226, I would ask the Secretary-General to respond, to come out and answer, not to me, just to carry out my moral obligation as an MP of the SRS and as a man who comes from that environment. Citizens blocked the road several times, citizens now wrote a letter to President Boris Tadic a few days ago, but citizens are unlikely to know that Mr Boris Tadic has mild doses of autism. He's a little autistic and doesn't respond to citizens' problems right away. In the election campaign, it all fits into some promises, and here we are taking care of the people. These people are also concerned, their children's health is compromised, so I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will respond at least until the end of your term. Okay, I'll believe you, but show it in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5619	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jadranko Vukovic and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly to ask a question for Mr. Minister. I'm using Article 226. This agreement, or implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, can help, says here, solve a number of problems, such as reducing air pollution in industrial areas - Belgrade, Bor, Vranje, etc. I am interested, Mr. Minister, if we adopt this agreement and this law in this assembly, will you, or the Government of Serbia, request the extradition of all responsible persons who used nuclear or radioactive ammunition in our country in Serbia's territory. I remind you that Robbery at Vranja has 38 thousand times more radiation than allowed, as a consequence of the use of nuclear, or radioactive ammunition used by the NATO Alliance when it bombed our country. The irradiation of certain parts of our territory has been decidently determined by ABHO management experts, signed by General Petkovic. So I can understand the debate on the adoption of this implementation of the Kyoto Protocol in order to reduce pollution, but I'm asking you, will you seek the responsibility of those states that have polluted our territory? Mr. Dulic, I'd like to ask you, because I think I've always reported myself for justifiable reasons so far, if I hadn't come out here to talk about something that doesn't stand, don't get all scrawny next time I raise my hand and report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5621	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5622	Mr. Dulic, that's Articles 225 and 226 again. In order for the present minister and the public not to misread it, this item of the agenda is primarily a political issue, not a professional question, from a point of view, I don't know, chemistry, formula, environmental protection, etc. That's why our discussions are primarily political. We're not going to fall into that trap to now consider chemical compositions, substances, etc., since it's common knowledge, and we're not competent for chemistry. For politics, by definition, we're competent, so that's what we need to talk about. You see what a problem is looking at. There's a possibility even the U.S. would accept this protocol. Why? Because there's one part in that protocol and the Convention that can be said to have deliberately left space or an empty hole. I don't want to get into it, I've been distracted by experts to explain to me that both the Convention and the Protocol and the possibility of applying depends on the free will of every country, that international instruments for respect do not exist. If international instruments were to exist at the level of the international community, then probably all these problems that some countries create globally from the point of view of ecology would be in Chapter 7. The Charter of the United Nations, and it wouldn't surprise me that an unauthorized show could endanger world peace and security. 'Cause it doesn't really matter, I'm going to be a little banalizing to make it clear to everyone that when an American kicks off after a good lunch, it comes to Biafra and the whole Biafra shit. Because that's how Americans understand their interests and represent it in international relations. So there's a possibility that everyone accepts this globally and that no one applies it, because there's no instruments, no sanctions. The sanctions in international relations are primarily carried out by the Security Council and some regional association, by declaring a country of contaminants. I translate it now to make it look, but it's not there. Serbia has been overrun by the danger that unidentified capital in the sphere of globalism can buy and pollute with little resources here. That's why I said at first, it's much more important for me if there's something in our regulations that regulates these environmental issues, which is not enough. (President: Time. ) These regulations need to be changed to help me keep our environment clean, based on our responsibility in our territory. I simply fear that because of some small economic benefit, we can come into a situation to conclude bilateral agreements with the United States, as is the case with the Rome Statute of the Permanent Court, where they have managed to conclude bilateral agreements with a large number of states so that international humanitarian law is not applied at all to American soldiers and American forces. So this won't apply to their investors in other countries, as it doesn't apply in America either, it won't apply anywhere for one simple reason that Americans are able to end it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5623	Can you remember where you left off so that in the next round you could talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5624	I'm an old man, I'll forget it soon, but one sentence won't hurt you. Let me know when and I'll be on my way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5625	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5626	That's why it's interesting to discuss this law to get all the information - why Marshall was sold to the American Embassy?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5627	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radovan Milovankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5628	Article 226, the MP has the right to question the minister from the field of work. Mr. Minister, I'm taking the opportunity to ask you, your ministry is being sent a request for the return of a water company inspector for the Rasinski Management District, first on July 19th and then on September 3rd of this year. I'll tell you why I'm telling you this, there's a problem, and I hope the area of environmental protection is also treating this area right now, that a large number of citizens are asking you, Mr. Minister, because you've been out several times in the last seven days, saying where the problems and chemical incidents have occurred and endangering environmental protection. So, that's how much this makes sense to me, as far as Rasin County is concerned, where I come from, from Krushevac, and the Cinderella River, which connects two municipalities, Alexandrovačka and Krushevaca. In your performances you made it very clear where the river was poisoned, and this river is not mentioned in your presentations. There are MPs here from the ruling structure, three MPs from the Rasin district, who have taken the obligation to ask the question and to inform the president of the assembly, so far it has not been done. We're not in power in Krusevec, and we found it appropriate to do that, to ask the question when will the water industry inspector for Rasinski County come back? I'm saying for the reason that Warm County and Rasinski have one that's in the Cup. I've referred this question to you for the Cinderella River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5629	A question for the minister by the vice-president of the National Assembly, Miss Natasha Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have listened carefully to your opening statement and I am interested, given that you are a four-month minister, and that this is a matter concerning the work of the previous ministry, Mr. Popovic, if I have not followed that part, but I think I have listened very carefully to you, has it been made national, so to speak, an inventory of all the harmful gases, of the five numbered, especially the amount of carbon dioxide in our country? Are you familiar with Serbia's Elektroprivreda elaborate, since I have to sell Serbia and Serbia's oil economy several more times or already for who knows which time I say that in this general tycoonisation of Serbia, we are opposed to selling Serbia's Elektroprivred and the oil economy, in a way that the previous Kostunica government tried, given that he is also a colleague of Valjarevic, and some others mentioned the economic aspect of the Kyoto Protocol. Now let's rule out what we're talking about, that we're a small country, that we've been destroyed production since 1990, that this, as far as America's relations with all the signatories are concerned, is about us not even thinking, I'm talking about these 37 most developed, complete farces, and that you're telling us if you're as a minister and as someone today who advocates us signing the Kyoto Protocol, you're familiar with the so-called. The postkoto process, which primarily involves the American government. Because it all looks like what Mr. Krasic was talking about, and he astounded me to ask you all this, and to give us precise answers, that the Americans are waiting for the year 2012 to be the year in which they will start at a zero point. So, all of these countries are conditioned, not because we're a developing country, that from 2008 to 2012, which, by reducing gas emissions and then they, with a whole new protocol, will call it a great and global force, which we have to oppose and all other countries, start from a zero point and they dictate the conditions without having anything to do with what it says in Kyoto Protocol. I would ask you to give me answers to these questions because, regardless of what Serbia is today a country in which there is no, other than individual cases and cities, great and general dangers, such as in other technologically developed countries, although we would know, and if you are already advocating the process of including in what is the preservation of the planet's land, which is a good way to end the conversation, to tell us what is going on in your opinion and where we are in general as a country in all of this, whether we are asking us anything or whether we have an impact on all these events and on these flows at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5631	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5632	Dear Members, Members of 225 and 226. I'm sorry, I'll only take a minute, because I can't go back to Koseric if I don't ask this question in public. Koserić is a city and municipality known, first of all, for cement dust, for social enterprises, and now he's Titan. Those claims go in two completely extreme directions. One direction is for aero-pollution and petrolcox, introduced last year, to completely lead to various diseases -- bronchitis, asthma, etc., including cancers, above all, lungs. That's one extreme. The second extreme is that everything is in regular flows. It would be really good, please, Mr. Sasa Dragin, I've already told him orally, but I have to say this publicly, precisely because of this great controversy that's being conducted in that town, whether the oilcox, which is the alterations and additions of the purchase contract between the Privatisation Agency and the Titan buyer from Greece, is harmful to health and whether the data are at all, the parameters concerning pollution within the limits of normal. I repeat, there are two extremes. Multiple round tables were held and the truth did not occur, and both sides doubt that the other side is not telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5633	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot begin this presentation unless I look back at the course of our session yesterday. I'm using the presence of our President of the Assembly to protest, on my part, because we're witnessing that here he's trying to suppress freedom of speech and public precisely by the conduct of state television. I don't belong to the naives who agree with the people who put fire on the director general of television. It's clear to me that when a dog bites you, you don't have to beat the dog, but to look for the boss. Of course, it doesn't apply if you have a stray dog, and in this case it's not the one. It's clear who's responsible for what's happening to us. A lot of bile has also been poured out at the expense of the president of the assembly. I think there's one thing that's showing up here again, and I agree in part with some who have been pouring out that bile here, we see that our president's authority is now unable to overcome the authority of the general director of an institution which is a public service for public information. That's the problem we've been pointing to. It's not Dulic's fault, it's the ones who put him in this situation, that he's helplessly suffering the terror of one, and here someone says, an undereducated person who's in one high-ranking position. So much for that. They criticized our president for not being here often. Yesterday I totally understand why he wasn't here, and I understand why there wasn't a television broadcast yesterday. There's one additional reason strong that we don't have a transmission. We've been discussing a dirty law that protects the interests of the tobacco mob. The tobacco mafia is not only the people who smuggle tobacco, but it is the ones who expand and develop the tobacco industry, because it is clear that it was necessary to block that debate, that citizens do not hear what the opposition is going to say. So we liked the absurd situation, that only one MP, Mr. Baralic of the SPS, showed hell and said what the law protects. I just want to take advantage of the right, and this has to do with this environmental theme, with this law that we're talking about today, which is supposed to prevent many of the diseases that are caused by the emissions of harmful gases, and it's also the tobacco that's rich in one of the great poisons. It is known that 73 million cigarettes are smoked daily in the country of Serbia. That's about what you get if you take the cost of three million and 400,000 euros a day is spent, and on an annual level it's a billion and let's say $400 million. Women smoke one bridge in the Danube, and men smoke two bridges in the Danube. They'd say immediately that those who deal with gender equality, that women are less pests, that's correct. I know women aren't equal, but they're stronger sexes and they're more reasonable in some way. Now, the problem is, every year we get 10,000 dead from direct tobacco effects. Tobacco and cigarettes emit 4,000 harmful substances, 70 of which are carcinogenic. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that we are signatories of the tobacco control convention, and this is where the World Health Organization conference will be held, in Belgrade, for the European region, and we don't respect this convention. Of course, we told you, we don't need CEFTA. CEFTA's going to lift the money from the tobacco, and it's going to shut us down, and that's going to be it. This is foreseen by the tobacco Action Plan, and this dinar has given us large funds that are invested in the equipment of intensive cardiological units, in the X-ray diagnostics, which is a large sum of billions and 300,000 euros that we have received from these funds. That'll make CEFTA possible. But to go back to the law we're discussing today, it's Kyoto Protocol. Ambassador Krasic pointed out to you in a number of ways, both succesively and gradually, to convince you that we are neither against the Kyoto Protocol, and you do not seem to understand it. You write in this list, you say - the SRS v. No, but we're telling you that we're against law-making with a twist of hands. We've heard the draft of Mr. Minister, quite general, academic, which you can't blame, everything that's said is true, but there's a lot that hasn't been said. I was wondering if this is weak information, so then I thought maybe the man left it out on purpose, wouldn't be convicted of promising something that wasn't right later. Then the president of the DS parliamentary group came out and ironed out a little thing. When we heard the explanation, why that's good, that's global reasons, and then the European Union, we're proving something to someone. And the starting point, and the citizens of Serbia? What about the citizens of Serbia, what is their direct benefit? The minister won't lie, as others have tried hard to say that we will benefit. We have the utilitarian benefit of using pollution prevention tools, but please ask the question is the other question, as Mrs Natasa Jovanovic asked. Is there a balance of harmful emissions done? What about the 2001 survey, funded by the Greek government? What about the balance from 1990? What we have to do. You didn't say, you showed me the paper, but you didn't talk here. Mr. Minister, you know what, now you're referring to something you didn't say, don't. Come back later and tell me. I'm just saying why didn't you give it up? Then we'd see cancer wounds, where the most polluting is, we'd see what's in Panchev, what's in Bor. You've consciously kept your mouth shut. For what? Because by signing the Kyoto Agreement, we're not even obliged to cut the show. It's not our responsibility and we won't do it. Well, let's get back to numbers and history. It's usually said not to mention history, I'll mention it. I'll get those numbers in here real quick. December 11, 97, 141 states sign, does not sign America, does not, does not sign Australia. What's important, America - 20% of that pollution. The protocol doesn't live after that. He has been living practically in 2005 in February, after being in 2004. Russia approached the protocol and it is starting to be effective. The European Union advocates even more stringent criteria and this is not disputed. What happens this summer in Vienna on August 27th: 150 countries meet again and are recommended to attend Kyoto 2 shows. And there is a conference in Bali in December, where the ministers of all the countries in charge of ecology will discuss and open a two-year period of negotiations for Kyoto 2. Gentlemen Democrats, Europeans, you are far too late. There's a new Kyoto protocol coming up. We haven't ratified. Why didn't we ratify it? What's the situation with us? Yes, in '97, we couldn't, he said, we were under sanctions. But in 2001, we started the shop. You didn't want to show the balance, show the people where it's being poisoned in the largest amount. The minister's head is spinning, he's frowning, and I'm gonna give you directions where you can see it. That's not what I'm saying. Everything Serbian radicals say has proof. Read the exchange of views between Angelka Mihajlov and Miroslav Nikčević, director of the Environment Administration, where they spit on each other who is guilty, why something has not been done in the field of ecology. I'll give you a source, a very educational reading, so you'll see how you spit on each other, why Kyoto didn't join the Protocol, why there wasn't a bunch of other things, and where you're directly accusing yourself of criminal activities among yourselves. So that reading I'm going to give you to read, it's very educational. Elem, you're talking about mechanisms. So the clean development mechanism, the international trade in emissions can also help us. They have the right to give up something big if they invest in underdeveloped, right, so it's a special method that will also help us. Serbian radicals, let me tell you something, are not against this. We're just saying that this way, this is only for utilitarian reasons you bring this law, as you have for utilitarian reasons brought the dirty tobacco control law. What made it possible for you when the Americans, when Polt told you in February, had to protect the monopoly you introduced. You've introduced a monopoly, you who want to go to Europe, and you want to join a world trade organization. You gave them a 10-year-old monopoly so they could walk on this market and do whatever they want. You've introduced four factories into Serbia that we have. The Croats have one. Which of the exports is our economic effect, 60 million dollars. Croats with one factory of 125m euros. That's your score. What did you do? Equalized excises. We raise customs, we lift the purchase quota from our producers. You're protecting a monopoliest. You're not protecting the citizens. If you respect the health and life of this people, you have a duty to reduce, not to open factories here, to reduce traffic and tobacco production. You don't do that. You're one vermin government, unfortunately, and your main motive is financial interest and it's seen from your exposure: we have credit positive, that's what's main and that's what we join Europe. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5635	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break until 3:00. [[After break – 15.05.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz be prepared. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5637	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just like to call members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament and I would like to ask a question to the Secretary of Interior, Mr Dragan Jocic. I want the question to be passed on to him. In fact, in several written and several electronic media outlets today we have had the opportunity to hear from the leaders of the neo-Nazi Group that the rally, which was scheduled in Novi Sad for October 7th, is not prohibited. I ask the question to Minister Dragan Jocic, why he did not ban this gathering, the gathering of a classical neo-Nazi organization, which advocates hatred, which advocates all those ideas that took several tens of millions of victims to us in the 40s and 1990s. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will react if the state does not react. On this occasion, I would like to invite all members and sympathisers of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and all other citizens of Vojvodina, Novi Sad and the entire Republic of Serbia to resist neonacism, to show that we are more and to end up with the Nazis once and for all. In the end, I'd only end up with words -- it won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5638	The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dragan Šormaz be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in preparing my presentation, I had the concept of asking Mr. Minister a question, but I hope he'll be here soon, so even though he isn't, I'll imagine he's here. By listening to these discussions and looking at this bill, I can't help but think that this bill is on the agenda today just because it was translated from English in time. I really don't see another reason why, at this very time, when we have much more important questions, this law appears on the agenda. But someone else decides what we're going to do is ours to do it. I must say, although in this registration list, MPs of the SPS and myself there have said that I will vote against, I am openly telling you, to you and to all citizens, all MPs of the SPS and myself, as MP of the Veterans Movement, we will vote for this bill, because we do not think this law has an alternative. Since the SPS is a Social Democratic Party, with citizens' interests always in priority, both political action and any other conduct, we think that environmental protection is indeed in the interest of every citizen and therefore there is no other way than to vote for this law. We think there's a lot of objections to him, to the style and accuracy of translation, and to the concept as it's written, but with all these flaws, he'll get SPS support. The adoption of this law means one thing, be assured, that we'll get another law in a series of those we've had before, and we haven't applied. I really don't believe that this country can contribute much to the global repair of the environmental pollution situation, especially in the material situation of our society. That's another reason why I don't think this law was so urgent that it was passed. I would have one question for Mr. Minister, or for the whole government, but he as a representative of the Serbian government, is it a sincere decision by the government to fight environmental polluters and how much further it is possible that this minister, who acts as a lone rider in the fight to improve the environment, will manage to deal with large polluters. I'd like to ask him if he thinks he has such support and such political capacity that tomorrow, in the event of pollution, extreme environmental pollution in Smederev, I don't know, by Sartid, he'll be able to close Sartid or at least prevent their emissions of harmful gases for a while. Be assured that he, the entire government and anyone in this country, will not succeed because of the circumstances in which we live and the circumstances in which our country and society are located. I would have another question for Mr. Minister, and that is, if we decide to apply this passed law, truly consistently, how many citizens of Serbia, how much the state of Serbia and the business entities of this country in the period from 2008 to 2012, how much will it cost us in terms of introducing new technologies to protect the environment, how much it will cost us in the obligation to introduce cars with, I don't know, the euro 4 and the euro 5 engines, how much it will cost us in the absence of the company's arrival in this area that would want to exploit the possibility of greater emissions of harmful gases. I know that this law is of great importance to the protection of the environment at global level, but I think that the citizens of Serbia and we as the Assembly need to take account, and much earlier and much more intensively, of some local situations and some local contaminants that at this point have much more impact on the health of our people and our citizens. Here in my hand I have one prospectus, one copy of the revitalization of the great grandmother channel through the vrbas. You're probably all aware that it's the waterway that's probably the most polluted in Europe, and perhaps in the world. I think that we would contribute more to our citizens, especially those 50,000 people living in the immediate environment of this channel, that today we were discussing how to solve and mitigate the consequences of the pollution of this stream. This study, and I have to read to you, since it's quite small, says - a project funded by Norway and done by NIV, is the Norwegian Water Research Institute. I'd rather have been done by some of our institutes, if that were understood, and that funds were found to solve this problem from domestic sources. But in any case, in our country, it is now within the shortest time limit to find the means and to find opportunities for such water streams and for such examples of environmental pollution to be revitalised as soon as possible and for this environment to be brought about by purpose or to adapt to the health conditions of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5640	The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Dr Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5641	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, as some of my predecessors from the DSS-NS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, have said, we will vote in favour of this bill. We will vote for this bill because the Russian Duma voted for something similar, because Russia, as a responsible state, is a globally responsible country towards the international order and responsible state for all of us in the world. In this way, I would also invite all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and especially those who have not yet decided to vote for or against, decide to vote for this law, to vote unitedly, to be in favour and to send to the international community a message that the state of Serbia is a globally responsible state, a state that thinks not only of its citizens, the environment of the state of Serbia, but of the entire planet. We do not want the state of Serbia to behave in an irresponsible manner, in which the US administration behaves. I don't know if all MPs know it, but the other problem with the US administration's policy, I'm talking about internal political grudges within the United States, is that the U.S. didn't sign Kyoto protocol. So their president was most criticised for the situation in Iraq first, and then for not signing Kyoto protocol. Of course, the United States, as a globally irresponsible country, unlike Russia, Serbia and others who signed this agreement... Mr. Todorovic, it's not worth it to you right now, you have no arguments, I've come up with all your arguments and of course you're nervous and you're throwing away, but you know it's free for me to throw away, I'm not like someone who's confused. Therefore, I will continue, regardless of the name of the defence minister, Mr. Sutanovac. That's not what I'm being told. He shouldn't tell me that. That's what he told someone else. ... So, we're going back to the United States, which is a globally irresponsible state, acting like a world cop, used to it in the '90s, so now it's hard for her to act less and less on the international stage as a world cop, so she moved from the position of a world cop to the position of a world bully. I remind you that, with the help of its NATO pact allies, in 99, the country bombed Serbia illegally, without the Security Council's decisions, with bombs enriched with the impoverished uranium. The state of Serbia succeeded after 2000, where it has its powers and responsibilities, which are three municipalities of southern Serbia, to clear our territory from the rest of those bombs, so now Mr. Riza Halimi can walk freely with Presevo, breathe air and be sure it will not be irradiated. Unfortunately, other citizens of Albanian nationality, as well as Serbs and other non-Albanians living in Kosovo and Metohija, are not in the situation, because the international community, which is required, under Resolution 1244, to lead the administration in that territory, until the state of Serbia returns to its administration and restore constitutional order in Kosovo and Metohija, has done nothing about it, so those who have come to Kosovo as an administration and people in charge of security in KFOR, and also our citizens themselves downstairs, are still at risk. Because, of course, the world's police officer who came down to keep the kobayagi safe doesn't want to spend money and clean our territory from the rest of the bombs with the impoverished uranium. The rules introduced by Americans in the field of ecology are an extremely good rule. They were the first to establish that rule, and that is what it says: He who pollutes pays. In their country, it really is. Those who pollute pay special taxes, special charges and more tax burdens than those companies that do not pollute. Unfortunately, they do not behave that way when they invest their capital in another country. You all know that I come from a town that's been mentioned here several times, from Smederev, where in 2003, in a completely illegal way, it was sold to Jellyzar, it was taken by the U.S. "Steel" by Sartide, because they knew it was going on the tender, so it wouldn't have been written there today by U.S. "S. "Steel," but it would most likely have been written by Mitel. They weren't allowed to go to the tender purchase of that factory, to buy a factory under the Privatisation Act. Unfortunately, to this day, no evidence has been found for all those who participated in this malfeasance, but I hope, frankly, as a Smederjevac, that one day they will be found and that all those who participated in this will answer to the laws of our country. It's often mentioned that the factory was sold for free for $23 million. Today, when you go to the U.S. Steel site, you can see that the estimated value of that factory is about $520 million. As far as I'm concerned, that factory could have been sold for one dollar, but whoever bought it had to take on the debts that this factory had, not to transfer these debts to public debt and destroy several banks in Serbia, because the Americans wanted to buy Sartide. Even so, they continue one extremely irresponsible behavior. We've put more pressure on them over the past three years. Now I can say, since someone here asked that the local self-government of some plush and soft messages tells the U.S. "Steel" that it would stand in the way, we really didn't want to behave in Smeder's irresponsiblely, many families depend on that factory, many families work in that factory, we didn't want to obstruct the work of that factory, precisely because of our fellow citizens who work in it. We tried to awaken our conscience in the management of U.S. "Steel." Unfortunately, it's hard to go, so we're certainly going to be forced to come to them more sharply, because what's going on right now is really unacceptable. Not only in three villages: Radnac, Ralja and Vranovo, but in all of Smedera's children are getting more and more asthma and other diseases, and not just children, of course, and older people, so we have to do something about it as a country. I received information from the minister that more than 10 environmental inspectors are currently in the U.S. "Steel," environmentalists, who are checking and trying to find out who all the polluters are, so we can get them to correct it. I agreed with the minister to send me, as an MP from Smederev, a notice on the results of these trials, and then we will absolutely require that it be more stringent. Otherwise, we'll be forced to apply, as local self-government, some other measures against U.S. "Steel." There are a few gates after which you can safely no longer work. As local self-government, we didn't want to act irresponsiblely, and that's why this pollution in Smederev was not so much heard about pollution in Pancheva, where the president of the municipality burned sirens during the election campaign every other day, because of the ecological pollution in Pancheva, and as the elections passed, they stopped burning on Pancheva, so now I'm in a dilemma whether Panchevo is still polluted in the same way or not. I'd like the president of the municipality to answer the question of what was so alarming at the time of the election campaign, and what changed better than to not turn the sirens on anymore and not make an alarm, or he put his function in the function of the party he belonged to and campaign against, say, the DSS at the time. I hope things like this stop happening in Serbia. I would like to conclude this, I ask you all again, it would be good if we all voted for this law, I repeat again why: we show that Serbia is a responsible country on the international agenda, globally, that as much as we are interested in not being polluted, we protect the rights of all others on the planet so that they are not polluted. Don't act like those who are sadistic, I mean the United States, not only about Kyoto protocol, but also about what they're trying to take away Kosovo and Metohija, but thank God, if we're unique here, it'll never work. Those who are led by them in some way, I can understand that someone is sadistic, that he likes to cause pain, but those who accept pain and more praise sadists, they are called different, they are called masochists. So, I don't know, I didn't say that, I said that those who accept pain, love that pain and praise the one who hurts, they're masochists, it's a diagnosis. We will talk more about Kosovo, but the Kyoto protocol is difficult after today. Please, once again, let us all unanimously uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5642	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic appeared, and then the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. I would like to inform the People's MPs that if the debate on this item of the agenda is even after 1800 hours, we will extend the work. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5643	Mr. Dulic, those are the members I kept mentioning, if I have to say again - 225 and 226. Mr. Shormaz explained the DSS' position, and in that sense he almost halved my discussion. I have a clear view of the DSS that is in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but I must say that I do not understand the position of this second break that is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I do not understand the DS's position. Do they honestly support this bill, or is it some kind of media manipulation? I have a lot of reasons to doubt when I ask to be explained. For me, it's not a dispute at all, if I may say so, the original part of the DS, for me, is the disputed ones who, from time to time, fly into the DS organised, self-initiatively and by order from the side. Since I've been preparing some countersuit these days, I've had to read extensively all the materials that are all foreign mercenaries, and I read very well the book of Dragan Bujosevic and this American journalist Tim Marshall. So it says, among other things, I'm not going to spread the subject, who went to training, what he was doing, etc., but the Americans formed an association, some machine called Resistance. They say how much money they made them do it, etc. Here, no one can convince me that Srdjan Milivojevic honestly thinks about this law, or Mrs. Jorga, or that Constantineovic, is gone now. For Mrs. Komic, I am absolutely sure she will vote for this law, clearly, but for these three and something else that has been inserted into the DS is not clear to me. Please, if by adopting this law we want, if nothing else, to wash away a little and my conscience, like my predecessor 99% of his exposure focused on the truth, that's not what I'm contesting, that's all he said, then I'm absolutely sure the Americans will accept that the adoption of this law is an attack on them. Mr. Shormaz, I commend you, I suppose you could understand. But the DS is unclear to me. Let me remind you, I don't know if it was 1999 or 2000, there was some TV duel between Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Seselj on Palm Plus TV. For two hours, Vojislav Seselj couldn't get Djindjic to say if Bill Clinton was a war criminal, he shouldn't have thought about the United States. Mr. Krassic, let's remember where we left off and move on later. Mr. Dolliche, you're discriminating me. When it's five seconds after the third minute, you jump something right now, I don't know what it is. Well, I'll get back to you if you care so much that you can hear what I'm about to say to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5644	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Riza Halimi, appeared, and then Dr. Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5645	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why Mr Krasic insists on new details when MP Shormaz has given us all possible abundant information and I really don't see what is the reason to continue the debate, since it seems that this law must be adopted on the basis of this abundant explanation. Only this situation has already passed what I said last time, a trend that the current government has in relation to Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje. We don't have to think about anything, because everything is being handled by this government, and when it comes to cleaning up the ground, and when it comes to creating an ecology, and when it solves all the problems in the Coordination Body, so we don't have to let the MP and the people in the local self-government know about it, because the government takes care of it, she's thinking about it. We simply have to be satisfied and we have to be satisfied with Minister Loncar, because he also thinks of us as Mr. Shormaz said a little while, because we have no problems in education, we have no problems with Minister Velja Ilic. He solved the problems on behalf of us, in the name of the Presevo Assembly, as far as commercial content is concerned. He decides who to give it to, and there doesn't have to be local self-government. Well, I don't know, if we continue with this trend, I really don't know why Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji, why they need local self-government, what they need an MP for, because this government is thinking about everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5646	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Paja Momcilov appeared, then Zoran Krasic, then Šormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I have reported that two points of the Rules of Procedure are being advertised. But at this point, half an hour after the beginning of our session, the session, is lifted, and you'd say the man's reason, my interventions. In fact, here we had the honor of having Mr. Minister come to us. But, of course, I don't think so, and I don't think I'm criticizing him. I'll quote, don't take this away from me in time, a member of our 87th Rules of Procedure says, "At meetings of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, there are members of the Government." I don't want to read any more. In Article 104, again he is well known to all of you, and it is well said, 'People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly'. Mr. President, you are the first among the equals, you have special powers, however, this article applies to you. Namely, what I mean. You shouldn't have opened a session and allowed it without a single government official, a distinguished lady sitting next to Mr. Secretary came 20 minutes after our debate. In this way, you are certainly making it possible for us to continue to suspect that perhaps now, here and unwarrantedly, Mr. Minister has expressed doubts that he is referring to parliament in one inappropriate way, that he does not respect it. Maybe that's not true. We understand that there can be a situation where there can be no more force for someone to be present, and then you have to declare it, and yet, if the reasons are strong enough, we could certainly appreciate it. But what's the point again, here's to using these three minutes and maybe tell Mr. Halimi, who says we don't need to go out any further to explain, and as necessary. We have made it clear to you that we believe that this government, a whole series of its actions, what it does does is not work in the interests of citizens, works in the interest, could be said, socially, but it can always be recognized as personal. Even here is this debate and the argument given here by Mr. Minister, that we will benefit from the Clean Development Mechanism, and what that means, it's the money again, it's the tendering again. You know how tenders are, how it all goes with us. Then it's clear to you that it's again something that's squeezing and it's not for the benefit of our citizens. It is for the benefit of the citizens of this country to know what are the points and the hotspots where the most polluted environment is, what is the emission in Pancheva, what is the emission in Bora harmful, to see how these legal provisions are going to fix the situation. And it won't improve, it's quite safe, because Kyoto protocol doesn't give us the task of reducing that. That's what we expected to hear, and we expect to keep hearing it, and that's why we're still discussing it. That's the basic reason. I know it's been a while, but if Mr. President allows me another sentence. If the story wasn't empty, I'd point out again to the Serbian government's decision, which in 2005 made the decision to introduce a new tariff mark, I'm not going to say a long number that allows the import of medical waste into our country's territory. It's against our law, it's against the basil conventions, but right here in the official messenger is allowed to pharmaceutical waste into our country. It is a concern of Serbia's citizens' health and that is why we will continue to discuss Kyoto protocol, hoping to awaken the dormant conscience of a part of the MPs in these benches. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the overstep.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5648	According to the Rules of Procedure Zoran Krasic and then according to the Rules of Procedure Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5649	I'm reporting because Mr. Halimi didn't understand me very well. Mr. Halimi, for the past three days, I have criticised the government of the Republic of Serbia, and today I have used the opportunity to praise all those with whom the belief that a global enemy is recognized, not just the ecological one, but the one for the soul and everything else has matured. As for you personally, I have to distract you, as far as you're concerned in Presevo, Bujanovac, there is a danger of radiation, but only from mobile phones. The Republic of Serbia, what kind of resources it has, has tried and cleaned up what it could do to the citizens, and what those who want to take away Kosovo and Metohija have thrown away. They are criminals against peace, which was found in The Hague tribunal by their prosecutor's office. Today simply, you've seen for yourself, and I'm very fortunate to have found a large number of people who think the same as the SRS. It is to be seven or eight years late, but better ever than never. We've got that category and we've never, ever been there, the election results say they're marginal. You can see for yourself that these NGOs have fallen asleep a little bit, they have seen that it is dangerous since they have matured confidence. We can compare, so let's say, where Americans have dominant environmental control is a bad example of Kosovo and Metohija, but we all have to remember that after 99 years, there is an increased mortality in Serbia, and even in some places, where there have been tape bombs, and these other bombs, to take the opportunity to mention the city of Nis, etc., these are the lasting consequences that these criminals have done to this people. Today's message should be for all citizens and the world's public, regardless of Kyoto protocol, Serbia is an ecologically clean state, the cleanest. Come to Serbia to be a little normal. You remember a new year ago, everyone goes crazy and loves Serbia. What is it that lures them to come here? Let's preserve it, Mr. Minister, with our regulations of our ecology. Mante's doing Kyoto protocol. Now you've made a diplomatic scandal for this government against the Americans and that's when the new ambassador came. As far as I'm concerned, I'm completely satisfied because it's a great evolution of one party whose former president called -- continue for another seven days with the bombing, they'll drop. This is the epochal result of DS. I'm not criticizing you, but I just doubt there's unity about it in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm just afraid that because of some handful of dollars and this falls into the water, like the Sartid, the bank, and I don't order everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5650	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5651	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure because I was misread by Mr. Halimi or he misunderstood me. I have warned you once from this booth that you are in charge and that you are a member of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to take care of the Constitution. I don't know what you found that I said differently in my presentation. I said well, the state of Serbia has cleared three municipalities, Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, right, Minister of Climate, confirms that. Not this government. You said this government does everything. In a previous period, the state of Serbia has cleared several years of great effort from the remains or from bombs enriched with the impoverished uranium south of Serbia. That's why your situation down there is much better for your health, for all those living in that territory. The local self-government, which you mention here, is an integral part of the state of Serbia in our constitutional structure. If I said that the state is Serbia, of course that means local self-government and three municipalities. Why did you answer? What did you just say? That's understood. So don't exactly run out like that. Regarding what you said and what Mr Krasic said earlier, I do not agree that Serbia is an ecologically clean country, because in part of our territory there is still a large amount of bombs and remains of bomb enriched uranium. That part of our territory, Mr. Krasic, is called Kosovo and Metohija. Until it's cleaned up, we're not an ecologically clean country. So we have to try and clean it up. If those who have administration there are currently in charge of that part of our territory under Resolution 1244, they are unable to do so, we ask them to say they are not capable of retreating from there. The state of Serbia, as it has done in these three municipalities, will do so in those 20 and some municipalities in Kosovo, and it is certain that all those living in Kosovo and Metohija will be able to have a better, better quality of life. Once again, I call on all MPs and MPs, there is time until the day to vote, to consider their views, to show responsibility for the state of Serbia and to send a message to the international community that the state of Serbia is a globally responsible country, not only according to the health of its citizens, according to the environment and the environment of its citizens, but the entire planets, and that we will not act irresponsiblely, as the thugs and sadists of the US administration behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5652	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5653	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've come to you for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, 226, or I'm looking for an explanation. Yesterday, as the session lasted and mainly as Belgrade's citizens returned from their jobs, the witnesses were also citizens of Belgrade, and for God's sakes who were on temporary work in Belgrade, that the planes of our aircraft in a low-wipe flight, carrying out the poundings, flew the narrow core of the city, flew very low above buildings in the city of Belgrade. As a result, the LDP presidency, which held its session yesterday, issued a statement and I would read it on this occasion, referred the question and asked for an explanation from Defence Minister Mr Sutanovac. So the statement reads, "Who are the planes threatening?" The LDP presidency condemns yesterday's demonstration of the rest of the military force, which destroyed Yugoslavia. By erasing the flights of military aircraft, which are technologically and ideologically old iron, have caused anxiety and threatened the safety of citizens and citizens, their children and property. For this incident, the LDP presidency is asking the defence minister Sutanovac and President Tadic to explain and apologize for the threat of armed violence to the capital and the political messages that this blatant and irresponsible incident was carrying. The LDP presidency reminds the presidents and the government that Serbia is brave enough not to let it be intimidated on its democratic and European path by those forces that, after failing in the other former Yugoslav republics, tried to make Serbia... (President warning with bell) Thank you, Mr. President, finally... the last member of the failed eastern bloc and its military alliance. Serbia will fight for its freedom, if necessary, against those hard-earned by means of funds, expecting to respect its civil order and peace. The LDP presidency this way and this occasion requires the defence minister to determine also against the mysterious killings of our troops in the barracks, which followed the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic and the pressure of the civilized world to hand Serbia over to The Hague the remaining war criminals who enjoy the protection of the military. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5654	National MP Zoran Krasic, then Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5655	I have not reported on this announcement that Sutanovac will commit aggression against Belgrade. I realized earlier that the planes finally got fuel, so they could practice, but good. Mr. Shormaz, you obviously didn't get me right. When I talked about Serbia's ecological cleanness, I built a fence on Kosovo and Metohija and said what they were doing there. Not clean. Usually villains remove their tracks, they don't even do it. Criminals always go back to the crime scene. Now they're coming back with cameras, filming, excavating what the Belgrade centre looks like. I must tell you, since you are still an ambassador to power, doesn't it seem to you that there is a building called the embassy, which is a fortress? The U.S. has been making their embassy buildings around the world like forts and then taking the whole block. Bullies. Yeah. Now, tell me, who sold those thugs Marshallat? Don't tell me that Parivodić did it on his own, although some say the whole Topcider barracks was sold. I don't know who changed the general urban plan, but I like what you're saying, but somehow there's always some kind of delay. Is that true, do you stand firm in those positions? I wish I did. To tell you the truth, I wish I did. So, I'm distracting you, while we're talking about this ecology, I'm going to take it a little bit wider to interpret it, because ecology is a global problem, and because of this sustainable development, it's not just about biochemistry, chemistry, air, water, etc. Let's take a look at this mental side, too, as they change our thoughts about life, the way of life, they establish a new system of values. You know, give it a little bit here and give it as much as it contributes to environmental science. To take this opportunity before it warns me, we ask the government to respect the regulations that regulate this area, that if it should be punished, if there is anything to change in our regulations, let us change, if we have to go ahead of all possible international standards, let us go ahead. Why? Because we must be responsible not only for our children, but also for their children and generations to come. And that was the purpose of my debate today to show you, mante emergency procedure because someone decided to take pictures between October 10th and 12th. Otherwise, I'm so glad you fenced the U.S.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5656	Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5657	I just wanted these warnings by Mr. Shormaz to come for the second time. It comes from a side that's even sharper and more aggressive in defending state interests, even from radicals. So about the first time it was, so now it's being complemented. If you'll excuse me, in addition to the clean air that you say we're breathing down there in your Cacin villages, do you even think the MP here has the right to speak his mind or must agree with you from the DSS or with the government? I think, first of all, if there was an abuse, it was in your speech, when you delivered Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and that radiation was in Presevo, Bujanovac, Vranja and other municipalities. Manipulation was when you only apostrophe of Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear. That's what I was reacting to. As far as the law is concerned, now that I'm an MP with probably an average number of votes, than you're here, I'm always talking about the average. I have 17,000 votes. Count there with how many votes you come in. Which is why apriori blanco must be just as Shormaz, as an MP, that he is in charge of defending the state's interest more than other MPs. This logic, not new, is very old, and has contributed that minorities in this country don't feel in their own. It's because of the discrimination and the kind of relationship you represent in this pay phone and now and before. I think there's been a continuity of a counterproductive policy that, unfortunately, has led to the catastrophic state that we have here for many years. As for mobile phones, Mr. Krasic, it is to work there, but often twice as expensive, because we are entering a roming in Mobtel, in Macedonia's Mobtel. That's why it should be a little bit more, in addition to that clean air, that this country has more engagements that not only Mobtel but other things seem more normal than the situation in our area right now. In a number of other areas, but now it's not about talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5658	Dragan Shormaz, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5659	Mr. Halimi, first of all, who told you not to talk? But when you talk, you have to say something, not talk nonsense. Those communist singers of Titus's time can't affect me. My grandfather and uncle Chetnik sang against such schools a long time ago, and I can handle you very easily. That demagogy of yours sucks, you're talking and you're not saying anything. So, first of all, I said that the state of Serbia had cleared south of Serbia, those three municipalities where the Albanians live, and that the Americans, who are obliged to do so in Kosovo, did not do so. Who's your bigger friend? That's the subject - Kyoto protocol, pollution, of course. You've made this other topic by your reaction. You said local self-government. So the state of Serbia and local self-government, which you have not now denied. So, what did you just say here? Secondly, if you with these votes were an MP that the government of Vojislav Kostunica did not give this assembly the first draft of the law, which we adopted in 2004, with amendments to the law on elections at the republican level, where national minorities were allowed to enter the Assembly, unlike previous laws that did not allow it. So don't be incorrect. The previous assembly of the Assembly unanimously did so, changed and adopted. So don't be incorrect, no one tells you, no one forbids you to talk. I'm going to fight for your right to always express your views here, like a real Democrats, but when you say something, go out and say something concrete, not tell some stories you learned in communist times without saying anything, just line up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5660	According to the Rules of Procedure, Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5661	Please tell me you're only telling the truth about this speaker. So, Mr. Shormaz, it wasn't Vojislav Kostunica's law that first allowed minority members to be MPs in the National Assembly. That was even at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. I mean, right from Mr. Halimi's party, we had two MPs. You're not as good as you are here, and you haven't done anything for the minorities, except by making that law a kind of political ghetto for minorities. It would have been much better if Mr. Halimi's party had gone into coalition with one of the major parties, in which Serbs were mostly represented, so we would have interfered and co-operated, than you would have driven them into a kind of political ghetto by telling minority members -- you will vote exclusively for the parties of the national minorities. So now the Serbian Radical Party MP, who belongs to a minority, suffers criticism from his people, because voters tell him - because you drag our votes towards the SRS. That's one aspect I point to. The second - harsh violation of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, according to which the list, for example, Mr. Halimi with 3,000 signatures could be accepted. By the decision of your majority in RIK and your Supreme Court of Serbia, who said: by our assessment, 3,000 signatures are enough for minority parties. When it's enough, why didn't you put it into the law? Therefore, do not argue, but cooperate. I recommend to Mr. Halimi, he knows the Serbian language very well, to address the MPs with you. Because it's not acceptable for you to speak to an MP. If you really don't know the Serbian language well, ask it to be translated. You speak on your mother's. It will not be a problem at all in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It bothers me when you talk to the MPs of other political parties because I know that's what you want to insult them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5662	The People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Mašić, has the word. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Radisa Ilic. You'll get a replica, let's go, and you'll get one after the man's out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5663	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2005, and especially this year, as citizens in our country, and wider across Europe, so if you want in most of the world, there was a significant impact on the precisely uncontrolled emissions, above all, of greenhouse gases. The primary consequence of this is the global warming and the increase in the total temperature, so this year we have had abnormally high and external temperatures, which have indirectly affected the occurrence of more fires, both in our country and in some other European countries, where further through these fires there has been the emissions of a large number of harmful gases, including gasses that cause the greenhouse effect, and above all that is carbon dioxide. In addition to these problems that are globally present, there are certainly in our country several cities and critical air pollution points. In addition to the emission of greenhouse gases, some other so-called "glass gardens" are being broadcast. industrial gases affecting human health. Just as a consequence of these adverse effects on human and animal health, and ultimately biosphere, hydrosphere and soil pollution, the countries of this world have also joined the creation of such a convention and charter, with the aim of preventing these negative impacts on these subjects that I mentioned. That is why it is unacceptable for us from the SRS to explain the reasons for the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol ratification law and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, it is said that the primary reasons for the political, legal and economic nature, and then on, as well as the importance for the protection of the environment. This Convention and the Protocol, in essence, have an effect and need to protect the environment, and then secondary meanings are these – political, economic and legal. In that sense, a number of MPs have also made remarks. So we believe that the focus in both the interpretation and the presentation of our public to this law should be on protecting the environment. It is also unacceptable for us to have an unacceptable explanation given the need for the urgency of the adoption process, where it also stands - to provide political conditions, again primarily political, for the Republic of Serbia, as a contracting party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and Kyoto Protocol to this Convention, to receive support from the Ministerial Conference for the Belgrade Initiative on strengthening regional co-operation in the area of climate change, which is of exceptional political and economic importance for our country. We are aware, honourable MPs and you, Mr. Minister, that the adoption of this law and the initiation of an emergency procedure is primarily due to the reason for holding this sixth pan-European Ministerial Conference on the Protection of the Environment, but could be found earlier. In a situation where we, as MPs of the opposition, are calling for a violation of the Constitutional Law and for the adoption of much more significant, although I absolutely do not argue that this is one of the most significant laws, this argument with the primary political calling is unacceptable to us. You didn't have the courage to say that it's primarily because we have the assurance that our country adopted this and that we can participate in this conference equally and fully. As Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, I received from the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation (OEBS), and this from the Mission to Serbia and the Sector for Economic Affairs and Environment Policy, which means some kind of sector, in which they inform me and say - in addition we are delivering to you the Platform of Serbian NGOs for Participation at 6. The Pan-European Ministerial Conference on the Environment, with a desire to inform you about their views and to encourage and support the intensive co-operation of state institutions, as well as rural and local administrations with civil society. This speaks of what we SRS MPs also suggest to you in the ruling coalition, that you bring a good number of laws under certain international pressures and with their demands. It is symptomatic that, in the key objectives they define, they are under (a) asking the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia, under 1) urgent action to ratify international agreements in the field of the environment, as well as to take all necessary measures to create conditions for effective implementation of obligations under international contracts already ratified. This is a confirmation that this law, as well as some others, is being passed in this House under certain political pressures from foreign factors. There are many grounds that one of these laws has been passed and for, I say, solving certain, significant environmental problems in our country. Mr. Minister, I found in one newspaper that you have made a statement that if compared on a scale of one to ten, it deserves a two, it means that at a very low level the areas of environmentalism are regulated in our country. Perhaps this is precisely because we haven't had a longer period of time for the Ministry of Ecology and that certain problems have been accumulated, that, within the Ministry of Science, these problems could not be solved and that, for these reasons, it is primarily such an assessment. But in order to solve these problems in a particular area what environmental protection is then and how this law should also help to resolve this situation, so I think it might be directed to me that this is exactly what you apostrophyd and said publicly and openly, not ashamed, because I don't think you're primarily guilty of such a situation, but it would be more difficult than how it was presented to us. The environmental protection area in our country is not legally resolved and regulated. I think that in the next period, more important laws should be passed that will make us more serious and at a higher level of environmental protection, both air and water and land, because we can't forget that in the last two months we've had serious accents and large fauna poisoning, primarily fish in several rivers, and that in the Toplica River, then in White Timoc, and the last major poisoning in Tisa, where data indicate that some 30 tonnes, perhaps more, of that fish have died. Unfortunately, I'm not informed, I'm using this assembly pay phone to inform us about the law during this debate and our public whether it's defined, in this time of the last incident that happened with the poisoning of the Tisa River and the death of so much fish, the fish fauna, who is the polluter. Two companies are suspected. One is Sugar, she was bought by Italians. The second is Fermin, the yeast factory. She was bought by an American firm, owned by Alltech from America, so I'd like you to inform us. I have unofficial information that the greater suspicion of Fermin as a contaminant, but not to bid, I hope you will respect this parliamentary question, that you will give an answer already during today's debate. What I want to say at the very end is that I would leave time and my colleagues with a clear opinion that we in our country have a relatively well-preserved environment, that we have certain areas, primarily mountain-mounted areas, with a very healthy environment, and that this can be a very important resource for our country, above all in organic and agricultural production. I hope that both this government and the next government will do, above all, to protect the environment, water, air and earth, in these areas and to turn to greater scale of this biological production. In order to achieve this, I think it is necessary that in this Parliament in the next period, your ministry is sent to adopt the waste management law, because we have not been resolved in a quality way in the management of municipal waste. It's one big environmental pollutant. Then, the air protection law, too, we don't, I hope we get it. Then, the law on water protection. It exists, but to be innovated and to be in line with modern requirements. What is important in terms of environmental protection is to increase the education of citizens and introduce an education process for environmental protection. Thirdly, what should also be promoted, which is to protect the environment, is to reduce the use of fossil fuels, primarily oil and coal, and the commitment to the use of bioenergy fuels, meaning biodiesel, bioethanol and indeed liquid gas, to switch to these less polluters because it will create preconditions to preserve the environment, even though we have more industrially developed countries that pollute our environment, but that we ourselves try to preserve our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5664	According to the Rules of Procedure, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5665	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for having to do this again. Despite the lack of knowledge of Serbian, I think I was clear when I responded to Mr. Shormaz's cynicism, when he unnecessarily separated Presevo, Bujanovac, the Bear from a broader, more complex issue. My reaction was again clear to the really unreasonable approach of the coalition's representatives who have the current power, when instead of one professional problem entering into the waters of politicization, again I say, one exclusively professional problem. My responses to these two approaches are simply my contribution and reaction in that direction. So again, I think, not the insults that go with that -- the mortgage of Titus's time, which could be heard here in earlier discussions from individual SPS MPs, and now the current MP is probably having a direct impact again, although he says his past is different. Again, this other thing about language, I think it was absolutely incorrect of Mr Nikolic's MP, when, in the course of the discussion, I admit, I was corrected by a reduced Serbian dictionary. He didn't have to answer that question and warn me because I have this culture from the local congregation. It doesn't have to be someone around here reminds me of how he talks to someone else. And as for the right to use the mother tongue now, let me remind you again, in addition to the pay phone and these dialogues that we had here in the Assembly, I have so far spoken to no professional competent officer on this subject, that I can use my native language in addressing the MPs in this assembly. I would remind you, I am an MP representing the Albanians of Presevo, the Bujanovac, the Bear. According to statistics, we're somewhere below 1%. Unfortunately, the number is decreasing, each census is increasing, and under the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, it is allowed to use native language for minorities that have more than 2%. I think if these things were cleared, I'd be happy to use my native language with adequate technical assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5666	Thank you very much. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5667	Thank you, Mr. President. I just, since Mr. Halimi mentioned the Socialist Party of Serbia, I'd like to say to Mr. Halimi... Mr. Halimi, I'm speaking to you, if you don't mind me hearing what I'd like to say to you, so you don't get confused now or in the future. Just so you know when you hear from party representatives who qualify themselves as democratic, the way they speak has changed because they are now in power, and now the problems they face are much more serious than they looked when they were opposition, so they could talk whatever they want. Don't be surprised they're repeating attitudes, state views that aren't far from the SPS. On the contrary, as time passes, believe me, more and more will speak as the SPS said in the '90s, because the state is above ideology. Some understand that now, and some have figured it out earlier, and don't think that when it comes to the state there is a big difference between MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And what the Socialist Party of Serbia was talking about earlier, and someone just now, is the reality they have to imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5668	The word is Gordana Komic, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared Božidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5669	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to take part in the debate on the draft legislation on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol and the United Nations Framework Convention. People's MPs, together with the President of the Assembly, have more interesting topics than listening to what I have to say. I hope it's short enough and interesting enough to really get your attention. At first, I would like to do something that is rarely done in Serbia, which is that for reasons I have followed the area of environmental protection for a long time, I also mention ministers, so current minister, Saša Dragina, for whom I must mention that they comment that he has become a favorite minister for the determination and punishment of contaminants. He simply did what the minister should do, which is to apply the law, as a minister in the government, which exists to enforce the law. Minister Aleksandar Popovic, whose term of office was passed by the Law on the Protection of the Environment, was also pleased to take part in the debate on the adoption of the law. Minister Angelka Mihajlov, with which practical standardisation of regulations and the introduction of standards for future regulations will be initiated. Minister Branislav Blazic was not this level of government, but still, which in one segment has made significant shifts in the area of environmental protection. In many sectors both at the former federal level and in the Republic of Serbia, there were people who were protecting the environment. I can't mention all their names. I would only like to mention Professor Ljiljana Conkić, who is no longer among us, from the Department for the Protection of the Environment of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. But many people in various segments of the state administration, at the level of the Republic, in Vojvodina, in local self-government, who in co-operation with all ministers who were in charge of this area have moved. Are those shifts enough? No, obviously not. We can testify, and here, listening to all examples, we MPs have about what we hear from people whose interests we want to represent, what it is that they see in their midst as black spots, what it is that scares them for the safety of the health of themselves, their family and their environments. So, it is an extremely important topic and my suggestion to all of us is that Minister Dragin, except that he will become popular because he is applying the law and applying it so that contaminants start taking care of the application of the law, that there should also be the first session of the National Assembly, where Minister Dragin will listen, listen to and respond to all examples that we MPs have in the context of what is time for questions and answers between MPs and the Assembly. Such a session of the Rules of Procedure is possible and my suggestion to all of us is that we organise it, that we really start to deal with what people are interested in, what scares them, or what they want to have more information about. Kyoto Protocol, which is ahead of us, except that for many countries of the world since 1997 and 2005 respectively, it has been a simple routine item of the agenda at sessions of various parliaments, it is important that citizens and citizens in Serbia know what it really is. My attempt in the next five minutes is to illuminate the Kyoto Protocol, as well as other conventions, from another point of view, believing that we have shared enough information on what the content of this Protocol and the Framework Convention is doing. Kyoto Protocol and Convention are a means, such as other directives, instructions or conventions of the European Union. They are a means to help individual countries and societies develop their own legal projects, to create a concept within the framework of environmental protection when it comes to Kyoto Protocol, in other sectoral policies when it comes to other conventions, because this is the way to make a plan. And that's why I'm glad it's on the agenda today in Serbia, because Serbia is a country where little who plans, because Serbia is a country where so-called. serious political debates are about describing the situation, because our society is so that every problem comes down to the concept of the talks, where political developments describing the situation are more important than asking together how Serbia, by applying the regulations accompanying the Kyoto Protocol, will look in 2011. It's a question for the minister, no matter whether I support what Minister Dragin does and what he intends to do, or I'm an opposition. So, as much and as how everything that Kyoto Protocol allows to reduce as damage in our local community or state environment as a whole. What will Serbia look like in 2011? The MPs are obviously interested, so I did it, they're asking how, the fact is that it's not being discussed. Why? The MPs ask again why. Because we're used to just describing the situation and looking for someone else to be guilty of what we see as a description of the situation. Our proposal is to start together to discuss how we will live and what Serbia will look like in the context of rules on the conservation of the environment, on clean technologies, on the application of everything that follows the Kyoto Protocol, what it will all look like in 2011. The Kyoto Protocol message is that message that is good, healthy for countries like Serbia, because it is simply one message about the principle of how they think successful. People's MPs are getting -- whether they're Americans. Yes, successful, I don't qualify them, I don't disqualify them, but the fact is that they are successful and they represent those who lead in today's world. If they're also the biggest contaminants, we can open up a debate, you might be surprised or you won't, I know what the subject is going on in American society, in America, about why Kyoto protocol isn't ratified. Like in many societies where politics is more prone to manipulation than facts, one part in American so-called. The political elite or, however you wish, the governing elite had a very long theory of "red alert" or "red alert," and for everything that was wrong, it accused the cold war and those who threatened them, so it had to be invested in weapons, so it had to be understood politics. Now they have "green alert" or "green alarm" and they claim, part of it, that the whole story of global warming or the story of Kyoto is just a way that the enemies of the American people, believe it or not, are the words used in Congress, if it reminds you of something, it is deliberate, therefore, that the enemies of the American people undermine the traditional values of the American economy. So, they're successful, to get back to the message of Kyoto. What are they doing successful? Make a plan. In 1997, they described the situation, seeing the measurable effect of the glass garden, measuring air pollution long enough, to have increased emissions, and moving, as we have a chance to sit down, to agree on what to do. The Kyoto Protocol did not give effect for a good number of years, in order to be updated in 2005 and indeed will be upgraded, or will be changed, but because people have a plan on what they want on the planet Earth, on certain continents, to happen by 2012 or 2013. In 1975, when a decision on human rights was reached in Helsinki, it did not look like serious paper to be applied and later, 20 years later, human rights are your only instrument for reform of parliaments, for public administration reforms, for changing people's public relations with citizens and citizens; they have inevitably encouraged and accelerated reforms in the EU. So that's the context of the Kyoto protocol that I'm offering you for reflection. Planning and the ability to talk about the plan, so we take pictures of each other so that something might look like a year or two, how much it costs, who's going to pay, who's going to do it, how many people are going to be in charge, they're going to be responsible. Without entering the planning process, we'll be the confirmation of those old proverbs that whoever doesn't plan it is planning their own defeats. I am not inclined to participate in the planning of any defeats, and I believe that this assembly has both the capacity and the will and the strength, that, with the support of the Ministry and the control of the Ministry of Environment Protection, we are jointly involved in the planning of all that we or those who will come after us, in order for a set of laws regarding the Kyoto Protocol to be concluded on the basis of the ratified Kyoto Protocol to produce the consequences that we say today, were evaluated by MPs, evaluated by experts, evaluated by the minister, Serbia will look like this in 2011. It seems to me, the topic, it's tone and it's the content of what citizens and citizens in Serbia want to hear from us. As for the black spots of pollution in Serbia and as for industrial pollution, I repeat the suggestion, let's make a Rules of Procedure which is possible to have a session of the Assembly where we will really discuss it, and we have a minister who will answer questions in front of us. It's one way to get to the register faster and to the polluter cataster, as is one way to share information between ourselves what the environment looks like in the locality of each of us. People in Serbia, as well as everywhere on the planet, this environment is important and they want to be healthy and ready to support us and to criticize us, if they see that we are not working enough to live with healthier water in the future, healthier air and healthy land, of course with clean technologies. With the hope that we will gather around accepting this Kyoto protocol, and even with greater hope that we will consider what MPs can do in the affairs of joint planning and painting Serbia's future, regardless of what rounds they are in and who will be in power. It is not about opposing political programmes and political strategies, especially political figures, but about how in 2011 those who, for example, are born today go to preschool in much better conditions than children do today, to breathe cleaner air than children do today, and to have dads and moms who live something easier than dads and moms live four-year-olds or five-year-olds today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5670	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. There you go, Bozo.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5671	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS advocates, as well as all other parties in this House, and for globally, and certainly far more for our internal solution to all environmental problems, namely that we solve and solve problems through our legislation, including those foreseen through this Kyoto protocol. What I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, is that a member of the 12th Protocol has defined certain mechanisms of pure development. I believe that if this Kyoto 2 is already following in December, that Serbia's role and role should certainly be considered and what Serbia and our delegation's demands should be, given the basic principle that applies in Europe, which is the principle that the polluter pays. Also, in Article 13, in particular point 8, it is said that at these meetings the UN and its specialised agencies are present, and particularly the International Atomic Energy Agency. Unlike these other countries that talk about the greenhouse effect, Serbia, along with Japan, Afghanistan, Iraq and the Republika Srpska, has an additional problem, which is not mentioned here, probably because these countries that ratified this Kyoto agreement do not have these problems. In Serbia today, far more is dying than in all other countries of cancer and leukemia. Serbia is gone, this is more about medicine, adequate medical equipment, or VMA, where only professional members of the army exposed to radiation are being monitored, and civil institutions do not own equipment to monitor civilian persons, citizens from Kosovo territory and Metohija, the south of Serbia and the whole of Serbia at all, or the reserve. Doctors, you can track this through public information, just talk about increased cancer and leukemia. There is modern equipment in the world, and it is something that you or the Ministry of Health should demand, exactly in accordance with Article 12, so that the traces remaining in the organism can be discovered with this modern equipment in time and that some measures can be taken in time. Some gentlemen here today said that the south of Serbia was cleansed of uranium. The truth is, I must tell you that there is no way and there is never a southern Serbia or any other territory that is once polluted by radioactive radiation can be cleared. Radioactive radiation or low-enriched uranium missiles, which contain uranium 239, I think that if they strike only into the ground, they enter into a certain depth and are done in southern Serbia, can be removed together with the country, stored and pose no danger. Every missile that hit a solid obstacle fell apart in the form of aerosols, the core penetrated through the barrier, and the rest went into the air, then polluted land, water streams and spread without any restrictions, not only on Serbia, it will reach the surrounding countries. The half-life is 4.7 billion years. So in 4.7 billion years, the danger will be reduced to only one half. You have to tell the whole world. It's enough for a man to breathe through food, water, or another way to bring in one five micron particle, that man must be dead. Someone's gonna have the consequences in a year, two, five years, someone in ten years, depending on the organism. Gentlemen, if it is known that since the birth of Christ to this day, 80 generations lived in the world, 10,000 years ago, it means eight thousand years before the new era and these two thousand years, only 400 generations, in order for this danger to be reduced to half, there should be 188 million generations. So I ask you to insist that the equipment that exists in the world, which we do not possess, to clean up the soil and find fragments and missiles of the poor uranium, right through Article 12 or through Article 13, to seek, in this sense, to provide Serbia with assistance. Second, this from the medical point of view, for early cancer detection. Even data related to professional military personnel with VMA are not available to the public. Only Italy, of the countries that have its troops in Kosovo and Metohija, has provided that information in public. Germany and all other countries don't publish that data. As for Kosovo and Metohija, pollution is far greater there. While it was in Serbia at six or seven locations, in Kosovo and Metohija it is several hundred locations. That's what I was gonna say. This is far more dangerous for the lives and health of Serbian citizens, although I absolutely do not reduce the importance of all other chemical substances and elements listed in this protocol, and I am only telling you that you have one of the elements where you should focus your engagement if it comes to that meeting in December, when it is debated about Kyoto 2. And in any case, you have that in mind when it comes to Europe or the whole world, and that basic principle -- that the polluter should pay for the damage he's done to the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5672	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, within the time available to our parliamentary group, I will present my discussion through three questions. Previously, on this list of people who signed up for the discussion, I guess by some habit, it says we'll vote against it. I want to publicly announce that the SPS is an opposition to this government, this government, will be fierce as time moves away, because the government is getting worse, but there will never be opposition to the state, opposition to the people and to those problems affecting the country's citizens. So, the SPS won't vote against Kyoto protocol. What I want to say, the SPS, as a party to the left, is that there is a man in its centre with all his problems, and he is very much paying attention to this particular issue, the question of the healthy environment in which man lives. That is one of Serbia's biggest problems. What I want to say to Mr. Minister would be very good if, with this Kyoto protocol, there had been a detailed analysis of the situation in Serbia, in all these areas that not only treat Kyoto protocol, but in all areas of environmental protection. You would see that it is not quite so, that Serbia is heavily poisoned, that it has been poisoned by those who have already ratified this agreement, that it is Serbia in which every day in some new river fish die, that it is Serbia in which every day some new chimneys choke the population and that I do not count any further. That is why I think it is necessary for the Government, and there is also a government obligation in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Environment, to submit a report once a year and to open a debate on these issues. Secondly, what we insist on when we talk about this, my colleagues said that when some agreements are ratified, that this is not approached in a quick technical way, you know, it is ratification, the agreement has already been signed, by the system "take or leave", it will be nice, European values, implementation etc. We've had experience here almost with an international concession agreement for the construction of the Horgos-Požega highway, and it turns out that there is also a consequence of the signing of such a concession for this country. We have almost had experience that the government donated the US green area to downtown Belgrade, 4.2 hectares of cultural and historical monuments, forced the City Assembly or in agreement with them to change the General Urban Plan of Belgrade, which changes once in 20 years, to say it is no longer that, it will now be for construction. I expect and demand that the government make available a public contract on the sale of the Marshalla building, with all the conditions that stand there and let the people know. I cite this as just one example, so we don't need Kyoto protocol, we'll easily have a green area, a cultural and historical monument in Belgrade to destroy for some other interests. Not to add that they forced us and, unfortunately, the government accepted, to clean up what they had brought down on our expense. So, we insist on making this contract available to the public not only Horgos-Požega, but all contracts and let the public see under what conditions all this has been done, of course, on Sartide and on all others. Thirdly, when the benefits of signing the Kyoto Protocol are explained, Mr. Minister, I want to assure you that 95% of Serbian citizens do not know what the Kyoto Protocol is. If we are still talking to this dictionary of "European values", "implementation", and the people know that the thermal power plants A and B in Obrenovac spent 90,000 tons of coal a day, and they're throwing 219 tons of particles into the chimney, maybe they're not all within the six that Kyoto protocol says, but they're suffocating people. Of which, 17 thousand tons of ash are put to the ashes, and then, as in the Great Blacks, the dumps burst, polluting, and destroying the people. Citizens want to know what will be better by signing this protocol, whether these issues will be resolved, how, will Belgrade be less polluted, how, how, if we have a garage in the city centre, if we have a traffic collapse, more than 400 industrial firms in downtown Belgrade that pollute the city. Not to mention the area of Pancheva, Smedereva, Vinch dump, etc. They're interested in it, whatever we sign, whether it'll help them. Or, unfortunately, the people of Belgrade will still be more confident in the favourable wind and strong as in any other protocol. When the Kyoto Protocol is mentioned, I assure you, most Serbian citizens, within the few who know it, know that it is some agreement that should reduce pollution, which applies to all countries except the world's largest polluter, to America, they don't know all of this. That's why we ask, when these things are explained, that in one concrete, citizens understand, a way to tell what will be better and when for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5674	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word. Let the MP Milan Dimitrijevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to discuss this item of the agenda, I'd like to mention two moments that may be a clear picture of what the Kyoto Agreement really is. First, I would quote Jacques Shirak, former president of France, otherwise a man who actively participated in the bombing of the SRJ, who told Kyoto the protocol in due time that it was a new form, so-called. global governance. The second moment is the fact that the United States did not sign this agreement even though they are involved in the pollution of the planet by 25%. If the text of the protocol is further analyzed, we conclude that even here, we are trading quotas on a global scale and that powerful world corporations, even in one disaster for planet Earth, have seen the possibility of making millions or even billions of dollars. Since most SRS MPs spoke about the Kyoto Protocol, I will look at some problems regarding the measurement of emissions in Serbia, as I come from the Paracin municipality, where the current cement factory Holcim is located. We know how well she's privatized, and that's how I'd like to talk about some things that the public doesn't know yet. Many have mentioned the problem of measuring emissions and conditions across Serbia. Why is that a problem? First of all, because a lot of data is incorrect, arbitrary, even funny. The reason is more, of which I will mention currently two - outdated equipment and wrongly licensing authorized houses to carry out these measurements. Mr. Minister, it is urgent to re-license all legal persons who have so far been licensed to carry out this type of work and to introduce a new term - dedicated licensing. It's not just about measuring the emissions in general, it's about which industry it's about, because each one is specific to itself. Some elements and compounds appear and detect in the cement industry, some in chemical, petrochemicals, at azotars, etc. So every authorised house must have its own dedicated branch of industry. Let me give you a simple example. In the cement industry, there is almost always a certain concentration of sulfurdioxide in greater values than the allowed limit value. It is due to the type of energy, as well as the characteristics of the laporac ore, which contains pyrite sulphur, as well as organic sediment matter. I'm referring to an example here specifically of Popovers cementers. So, one of our authorised houses, which has a license to do this, has been measuring the emissions that have produced ridiculous results for the sulfur dioxide. The result of that measurement was zero, for other values not to tell you. When it was suspected, other measurements of other authorised houses, unfortunately from abroad, were carried out, and results showed that the value of sulfurdioxide, whose limit value was 400 milligrams per meter per cubic meter, was up to 700. And what needs to be done now, the job orderer is deceived, the citizens are deceived, and someone for their irresponsibleness won't account for anyone. I just wonder what if that's the case with other potential polluters in Serbia. Here, for example, Panchevo. People literally faint, and many authorized laboratories cannot detect the cause of pollution. So, re-license legal persons who can do this job, with a purpose indication. Also, many factories owned by abroad, so through privatisation they came into ownership, installed their own equipment for continuous monitoring of pollution levels, i.e. they established 24-hour monitoring. But the problem is that the ministry didn't impress them, because that way they could have valid data on the degree of pollution at any time. Because of the sulphur dioxide problem, I've been looking for Holci data and I've got all the measurements, both the periodic ones and the ones that are constantly measured, and I've seen that the differences are insignificant. For the sake of illustration of what our homes do in this business, I have photographs of our house that measure certain kinds of shows and from abroad. Here, so this one measured zero sulfurdioxide, this one measured 700. We literally have a machine that just can't detect, to express myself strangely, or the smell of a sour cabbage, when I have to say so. Furthermore, I would also remind you here of the problem of determining the limit value of the reference oxygen, to establish it once and for all, since that percentage varies by 20% and is lower and represents a possibility of obtaining false results. As far as I am aware, this limit is moving in the EU between 10% and 11%. Furthermore, I would also like to introduce you, Mr. Minister, to one of the elaborats of the Faculty of Machines in Belgrade, which is actually an expert report on solid particles and cement furnaces in the cement plant Holcim, and it says on the side of five that the limit values of pollution in the cement industry, where waste is burned as an alternative fuel, and to remind you that in the cement factory, waste tyres have been burning for two years, are being reduced. For example, the 400-sumpordioxide is reduced to 50 milligrams per metre cubic. But you know by which rule and by what? Under EU legislation and under Directive No 2076 EC. I'm asking you now, since your party is in Europe so much and is looking for European legislation, why don't those rules that limit the limit value to 50 milligrams per metre of cubic sulphur dioxide apply in Serbia? Next, I'm taking the opportunity for the sake of time, so I'm gonna cut this exhibit short, ask you a parliamentary question. Mr. Minister, when are you going to regulate the legal use of hazardous waste as alternative fuel, because it is slowly beginning to turn into problem number one regarding environmental protection in Serbia? Many of the regulations that monitor this activity exist in the EU, but not with us, but with the difference that in Serbia it is already moving towards the use of alternative fuels, and where there are high furnaces such as cements, ironworks, etc. I don't feel responsible enough that you're treating this problem and I'm taking this opportunity to ask you if you're already planning to approve the incineration and so on in the high furnaces soon. Pharmaceutical waste, and with what kind of protection and control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5676	The People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Dr Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5677	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to speak on the subject, I am obliged to refer to the morning presentation of the LDP. So, then, there was an untruth that could easily be denied. It has been said that during its term of office or over the past three years, the government has not passed any system laws in the area of the environment. So it's about Mrs. Vesna Pesic. I'll remind you here, since I downloaded the site, there are four system laws that the last government has passed. It is the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination and the Environmental Protection Act. So these are the laws that were passed in the term of the last government. It's about misinformation. This kind of disinformation of the public pollutes perhaps in a more dangerous way our Drin than this subject we're talking about. I would ask the MPs before they release one piece of information to verify its accuracy and to treat it that way. So, about the Kyoto Agreement, or ratification of the Kyoto Agreement... Here you go, Mrs. Radeta, were you going to say something? (The Belief of Radet, from the scene: I do not notice that you are behind the pay phone.) I'd like to begin the one sentence that's been going back 15 years. It reads - think globally, and act local. I think we're on a good track and this is, the ratification of this agreement is the continuity and continuation of a good practice of the former ministry and the proposal for ratification is certainly a good move by the environment minister, and the DSS MPs are very grateful for this move, and certainly the DSS MPs will vote for this ratification. Let's go back to some things, what are the causes. We are witnesses and all of us are serious climate change. There have been very dramatic changes in the world lately as far as climate change is concerned. Several major climate changes have caused huge destruction in the world. Let me remind you of the hurricane that devastated New Orleans, the great fires and a number of other events that are and as a result of human activity, or uncontrolled emissions and emissions into the atmosphere of all gases, which are listed and I don't think there's any need to repeat what gases are about. What are the reasons for the Kyoto agreement? Just thinking globally, to see the problem, to find a way to prevent it and to leave that planet in the legacy of those who come behind us in one better condition. I think that's what the minister said in his presentation. What are the solutions? The solutions are just contained in this message, so it's thought globally, and it looks local. May I be allowed to look back at a phenomenon that is related to our country. I think we're on one guest of Mr. Secretary at the Parliament Club on the subject. It is that there are hundreds in Serbia and perhaps thousands of local dumps completely uncontrollable. In addition to important water streams, and one of these important water streams and something that is strategically important for this country is the drain of the Drina River. It's enough to approach the drain of Drina in the middle of Podrinj and make sure that what I'm saying is true. So, what's the solution to that problem? In addition to the applicable system laws, it may be possible to pass some sublegal act, allow people living in that area to collect this waste in one place, connect them with public utility companies and eliminate it in an adequate and completely safe way. It's not good when a river like Drina shows up in a water stream of garbage that covered one third and even more of the river's space. Some time ago, I was staying on the Lake of Zvornik, and I visited him with what surprised me that hundreds of thousands of bottles, abandoned and unusable cars, home appliances, car tires, and anything else that seriously polluted that water flow. So Drina is a strategic matter of Serbia. The only healthy water flow in Serbia, which can supply this country with healthy drinking water in the future, is at this moment. Finally, I will repeat, the DSS MPs will support the ratification of the Kyoto Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5678	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5679	Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would just as soon refer to the previous discussion, given that the morning presentation of Ms. Vesna Pesic was interpreted in a completely wrong way. You know, Mr. MP from the DSS, the fact that over a period of three and a half years, the government has proposed to Parliament three laws governing the area of environmental protection in itself is not enough to conclude that there was a system that cares about solving such a huge problem as we are discussing today. That's very small. The government of Vojislav Kostunica broke some kind of political tradition that existed in Serbia, which related to the establishment of the infrastructure necessary to address the environmental problem. There was no ministry in the previous meeting. I'll remind you of the exposés of the Prime Minister and the president of your party. He cited five priorities his government will address. He didn't mention the question of environmental protection. Your government in the previous term was not capable of solving these problems, not because you personally do not want or what your party's voters want, but because it did not do what the Government has to do to establish the infrastructure necessary to solve these problems. We're talking about the system here, and that system needs to be developed now. Now there are preconditions for such a thing and we hope that it will come to this. We work well within the board and among us there is no kind of division that is characteristic of every other field of our political action. Not in what Vesna Pesic said to look for space for political confrontations, she did not do it because she wants to calculate LDP - DSS at that level, but because she wants to make this government, as well as from any future, much more responsibility in the process of solving these problems. It's not enough to let the sirens in Pancheva and so send a message to the citizens not to leave the house until the cloud passes. It's not a system. The system needs to be created together.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5680	The word is Dr. Poscurica. Here you go. Let MP Vlatko Ratkovic be prepared. Let's let the doctor go, and you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5681	Ladies and gentlemen, there is something in front of us that you have translated into law. This could be called a simpler ratification of the Kyoto Protocol and the UN-adopted Convention. So, someone who generally takes care of global atmospheric pollution, someone has also managed to show in statistics, which we don't have, of course, have been downloaded from the site credible information about how much carbon dioxide emissions have deteriorated through the equivalent of the atmosphere. But in 10,000 years back, from 80 to 15 years, 50% of the concentration is expressed in units that are not clear to me, but are comparable, because they are used everywhere. By the middle of this century, pollution is projected to be around five hundred units, 750 consider analysts critical. The fact that you can download from the reference sites, whether they are significant or not, the signed names are also significant professional and scientific qualifications under the persons who wrote them, speak of an important fact that will result from the fact that when we adopt the declaration that is before us, the obligations that will follow us, to standardise the instruments and methods that we will make measurements, and to show and communicate with the public that will be mandatory for us. Of course, I would like to look back on this opportunity and another important fact. Faced with the real danger that perhaps in a hundred years or shorter, there will be an absolute deficit of fossil fuels, or overheated atmosphere and major ecological disasters, a complete world, but here is now a man who counts 171 according to how many UN members, about 200, seven eight members of the UN have signed one protocol and agreed to cooperate, while one, we have heard why, frustrated, frightened country, hour red, hour green, and never scared enough with his works, to the end, freed, continues to be the world's greatest polluter, continues to make the biggest fractures. We've heard he's making the biggest radiation, the biggest cataclysms, he's doing dictatorship, he's doing cosmic arson. So, we from this pay phone can't do anything but to point it out, to explain, to say, that the SRS is ready to always make that clear. We think, I don't know how much this would be in line with the general functioning of this institution, that even such a law or ratification of the agreement was followed by a declaration condemning American behavior or following at least, and that was more logical and possible, a White Paper that should speak about what happened in Kosovo after the humanitarian Mercy Angel, because we're filled with Batut, and other relevant lower-ranking institutions, information on how many sick, how tragically ill persons, how many genetic mutations there are. As much as we have bad equipment that can't register, we have a final clinical picture and a final truth waiting for us, which unfortunately we can register through the really safest ways, which are funeral lists that are printed daily and much, much more often in our hospitals than before. So, at least it could have gone through in a package with this law, to expand this discussion, to show that it could have been different. It's really not about gas emissions, it's about much more serious, much more hard-core and much harder local, at least this time locally it's only this time that we've been hit in this micro-region, harmful event. When it comes to Kyoto Protocol, we are aware, this law has four members, of which the other contains the entire Kyoto Protocol, these three remain one or two sentences only to look like some kind of legal form. We are aware that there is nothing we can do, nor is there an opportunity for us to change the contents of the Kyoto Protocol here and we will not engage in such discussions. It is quite clear that if what can be read from people who are interested in this problem, so those who are hoping to adopt Kyoto Protocol saw for themselves a chance, tried to analyse and give suggestions, almost a message to the government, there are different institutions that bid on different communications, but let the Government know what we best do and which of the mechanisms of implementation of the protocol to use, so it offers the possibility of working on pure technology. So, something that would mean theoretically, you're going to have money, you fix your gas emitters, you can't increase those sinks, those woods up in the fires, we're not ready to stop it, but you fix the emitters, you get in line and you cut the gas emissions. This can be done by those who are in Annex One, by helping another Member State in Annex One, and there are also in the midst of Europe and central Europe those who make less. They may also have better technology and can work, but there are interpretations that can be activated through carbon loans and help countries like Serbia now. There's another option, Serbia can, you've left the possibility that maybe sometimes they'll accept, accept Annex One and Annex B. If they do, then they'll be shoulder to shoulder with Germany, Russia and other countries. At that time, Serbia's responsibilities, i.e. Serbia's obligations, will increase significantly. Then she will have to have good measuring instruments, and good statistical indicators, but also a program to fight the show. What if it turns out that this pure technology brings some kind of amount of money, but I doubt it's valid, assuming, we don't have a government opinion, a government position, a reference body, how many tons of carbon dioxide or equivalent can give us money. It says two euros somewhere, you can find it on the site, that I'm not showing it to you right now, you can find the chart, it can be 2.11 in June last year, up to as much as 25 euros per tonne in June of this year. It's so variable, so much so that mom's eyes, so much to seduce, if you tell the citizens -- if we sell our clean air, conditionally, for some carbonic credits, we'll have so much and so much for a potential ton of carbon dioxide production. But you see that market varying. What if the annexes you can't do, you only have one voice to influence, and a three-quarter way of adopting an annex, someone wants to include Central African countries, so sub-Saharan and tropical Africa that's abounding with debauchery that can accept and accept carbon dioxide, so it lowers the price of a carbon unit, as we're going to behave. So it's not just about adopting it. Certainly something that is a civilizational fluid, which is a challenge, which for the first time makes a clear distinction between the greatest vermin of this century and countries that are small, powerless, but aware, with a highly developed consciousness that the least contribution to pollution in the human environment is harmful. The fact is that we're stuck here in some defensive relationship and at least we have to verbally call those who won't fit in or don't want to fit into modern world trends, and in everything else that's uncivilizing, they're of course a forerunner. It remains unclear, and soon I will end up, what if someone who wants to be a potential user of credit, then if the time comes after 2008, the possibility of entering Annex One, and what if the state decides to enter, whether it will come to parliament, if we accept Annex One, we accept Annex B, whether it will be at parliament again, or whether it will be decided by the Government, the Ministry, who, if it decides, will say - wait, we will no longer take credit; we will take credit, and we will start our own technology, so we will have a greater value and we are not in debt to anyone. Is someone who gives us a loan for clean technologies going to tell you -- here's so much money, but at the value of points, credit points, carbon for this year, that money is worth so many points, or it's going to find some balanced amount. We don't know exactly what kind of mechanism it would be. Maybe it's those misunderstandings that we can't get out of this bill. If they were potentially relevant to the functioning of the state and the system, not the fact that there is a need to fight pollution, but what will be the day after we adopt this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5682	Mr Dimitrijevic according to the Rules of Procedure, let Vlatko Ratkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5683	Thank you, Mr. President, Article 226. Rules of Procedure, explanation by the Chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection. Mr. Jovanovic, do you think the system can be built without law? Or are you prone to shortcuts? In the past, we have witnessed that you are prone to this path. How do you think one system is built if there's no law? You were Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Jovanovic. You were the head of the parliamentary group. You're the president of a committee now, so is it possible that you haven't learned basics in so many years? It seems that when you study for a little while longer, you have a hard time learning. Or do you have another view of the world? And we also read about your views of the world in the press, so we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5684	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only say that in the previous term of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, three laws have been passed to parliament, that the three laws have been passed by the governments of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, i.e. The ministry run by a woman from the Democratic Party, Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov. I don't even know what that has to do with shortcuts. So as not to turn the debate on this issue into what you have turned Serbia, into a hook and a black hole, I will refrain from any commentary of this nonsense that you have mentioned. Think about how many laws there are about what the government is doing that you support before you ask anyone else a question. You've been getting so many questions in the last few days, that you're the last ones who have the right to come out here and say anything to anyone before you offer answers to something like that. We'll wait for those on whose remote control you are, to talk to them about it. Three laws are not a system, and many things you can learn from Mrs Pesic, as well as those who do not have the courage to come to this hall when discussing the laws they have passed. As far as schooling is concerned, lessons are given elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5686	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister of Environmental Protection, today we have discussed and continue to discuss an important document called the Colloquial Kyoto Protocol. It is widely known that global warming, the effect of the glass garden, is due to one process that has lasted since the last decades of the 20th century and that this global climate change process affects all countries in the world, all regions in the world to a lesser or greater extent, and it is in the extreme line due to anthropogenic impacts on the general climate. Given that the existing national legislation until the 1990s did not constitute sufficient legal, economic or technological framework to prevent the effects of the glass garden and all the negative consequences it has, in 1992, to remind Rio de Janeiro of the Framework Convention under which this Kyoto Protocol is going, and Serbia is also a signator of the 92 UN Framework Convention, with the so-called Republic of Serbia belonging to the so-called Kyoto Protocol. Anexa No-ex one, i.e. is not obliged to reduce the emissions of harmful gases during this binding period, nor is it obliged to allocate financial resources from its budget to a certain period. Why is Kyoto protocol important to the Republic of Serbia? It's important for a number of reasons. It is primarily important from the aspect of environmental protection, as a global and national problem of the Republic of Serbia. It is important that we coordinate our legislation with EU legislation and, to remind, that Serbia is the only country in the region that has not ratified Kyoto protocol, although it is not exclusive, nor is it the only primary reason for the need for the Kyoto Protocol to be ratified in this Parliament. The reasons are multiple and concrete. I will concentrate in several sentences which are positive effects that the Kyoto Protocol ratification has on the state of environmental science in the Republic of Serbia, along with all those aspects discussed by my colleagues and colleagues. First of all, the economic aspect of Serbia opens up the possibility, given that it is a non-anx state party country, it is exercising its right to financial support from the access funds established under the Kyoto Protocol. It's one of the first effects of the Kyoto Protocol ratification. Furthermore, the creation of positive macroeconomic effects through the sale of certified emission reductions, attracting foreign investors, improving knowledge transfer and clean technologies in the field of environmental protection, as well as increasing employment, more efficient capacity building. These are all, to say, side effects, or economic effects, because in the right place we always have the primary task and primary effect of the Kyoto Protocol, which is exactly the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of our citizens. The Republic of Serbia, I will remind you once again, has no obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2012. This implementation of the Kyoto Protocol does not require specific financial resources from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, except for one small part that our country must pay in the administration of the Framework Convention. It amounts to some ten thousand dollars on an annual basis, according to the UN scale 0.1% of their budget. What is important to further say about the Kyoto Agreement is that we gain the right to participate in the international gas emissions market that cause the greenhouse effect. This was also discussed by colleagues from the DS parliamentary group, said colleagues from other parliamentary groups, and we also consider this to be one of the most important effects of ratification of the Kyoto Agreement. Serbia joins the international gas emissions market to gain the status of a net retailer of emission credits. In this way different projects in the field of environmental protection, energy efficiency in the country can be financed, and this is again in a broader context an environment for the creation of investment projects and the creation of new jobs. That's all they need to know about the MPs and all the citizens of our country. Another of the concrete things I want to apostrophy, and I will end up with the average price, that was said, the current average price on the European market is 20 euros per tonne of carbon dioxide and, according to this current sphere, Serbia is hypothetically and realistically able to make an enviable profit of a billion euros per year. Serbia certainly belongs to those countries that claim to be leaders in this region of Europe, in Southeast Europe, and ratification of the Kyoto Agreement, its implementation, as well as the ministerial conference to be held in Belgrade in a few days, and it is related to environmental protection, will confirm our intention and our firm determination to be leaders in the region and in the area of environmental protection. For this reason, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this law, namely the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5688	Thank you, Mr. Ratkovic. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5689	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the atmospheric concentration of gases, with the effect of the glass garden, and especially carbon dioxide, methane and azotsuboxide have been enormously increased compared to the pre-industrial period, and their current values are the largest in the past 650,000 years. A marked increase in carbon dioxide, methane and azotsuboxide concentrations over the last centuries was primarily caused by burning fossil fuels, changing the purpose of land use, as well as other human activities. According to global climate analyses for the period 2006, published by the World Meteorological Organisation, the previous 2006 was the sixth on the list of warmest years in the period from 1861 to today. At the global level of the 20th century, the last decade of the 20th century, as well as 1998, were the hottest in the last millennium. Trends in air temperature in the second half of the 20th century have been recorded almost throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The region of northern Europe has registered a drop-down trend of between 10% and 40%, while in the region of southern Europe, to which our country belongs, there is a mostly drop-down trend, which is around 20%. If we just take a table, we can say on the case of the city of Nis to see that in the last 30 years the temperature has been somewhere around 0.4, I speak for January, and this current year, the temperature is 5.3. Or let's say that if we look at the percentage of rainfall in that same city, if we take the month in April, it used to be a 50-millimeter drop, and now it was only six this year, which indicates enough of the big changes that are happening in our country. As a result, well-designed policy, primarily environmental protection, can provide economically favourable results, primarily for the economy and our country in transition, which otherwise suffer major problems due to low levels of energy efficiency, as well as the high intensity of the emissions of harmful gases in production processes. We know that global warming is called an increase in the average temperature of the Earth's atmosphere and oceans, but if these events continue we will have a sea level that will rise, sweet water will be less and less, habitats will be destroyed, and what is evident, more temperatures will negatively affect our population's health. The question arises, and this is whether it is more cost-effective to reduce emissions in countries whose production processes are obsolete and inefficient, or in developed countries, where even more developed technology would be needed to reduce emissions. Industrial countries that did not sign the Kyoto Agreement, primarily the United States, participates in emissions trade through voluntary trade mechanisms, such as the Chicago Emissions Stock Exchange, a self-regulatory stock exchange with its own regulations, managed by their members. It should be noted that China also did not sign because the country is in expansion, although besides the United States it has the largest pollution sphere as a country that has major industrial growth. Countries that did not sign this Kyoto Protocol can approach at any moment and that is something we must pay attention to, and what is evident, it is that in Serbia the Kyoto Protocol has not so far been given much attention to by representatives of the Serbian government. What is important is neither the professional public, except it is mentioned as one of the unfortunately necessary international agreements, which Serbia must sign for future development and economic prosperity. Official data exist in Serbia, although the question is how credible they are, but they suggest, if we look primarily at the International Energy Agency, that Serbia dropped about 50 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2004, when we have that data. Minister, I apologize, but if you can pay attention, you can talk to your colleagues later. First of all, there are 50 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, about 30% of the emissions produce exactly the power generation of Serbia by burning fossil fuels, of which 75% of coal, 8% of crude oil and gas, and the rest of the emissions to hydrogas and some other renewable sources. The current energy inefficiency is obviously the largest potential source of energy, with only four countries of 27 being rich in oil and gas as a source of energy. Given the instability of the price of oil and gas, above all I think globally, we need to make sure that Serbia produces only one-fifth of the year's oil needs, as well as one-quarter of the gas consumption alone, and therefore perhaps it is one of the messages that this ministry has to do, which is to increase the overall energy efficiency in the country. The fact is that slow decision-making, as well as bureaucratic behaviour of the government of the Republic of Serbia, prevents the energy sectors of the Serbian industry from improving their competitiveness. I would ask you to stop the time and ask a parliamentary question. Mr. Minister, you have already received a letter from your office in southern Serbia on September 10th, where besides all the mafias we have so far, there is also a forest mafia, which has been left aside and former ministers have failed to pay attention, obviously you have no intention of taking care of it either. This is as much as I see a letter sent to you. I assume you're a competent talker and you need to answer. First of all, it's about millions of cubics of beech that have been cut so far without justification, you don't know who the owner is, and what streams of money he's leaving. In the letter sent to you, it is ultimately defined that your urgent engagement is expected to define this recorded problem, because that is why the citizens of southern Serbia also spoke to you, or to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is unfortunately persistently silent. I want to really, as an MP in the most recent time period, get an answer to the parliamentary question, since I know that you know that the function of the forest is primarily to be a major absorber of carbon dioxide. I'm sure you're aware of what's going on with the forest fund and the Public Enterprise of the Serbs and I ask you to act preventively, and to prevent another mafia from spreading and developing, especially in southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5690	The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic, so let the MP Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5691	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this topic is joining us for two maximums (I'll wait for you to apologize), two maxes of those greens or greens. One is -- let's think globally, and let's act locally, and the other is that there is no democracy without ecology, that is, without democracy, there is no ecologicality. This last one shows the situation in Serbia, unfortunately. Unfortunately, Serbia is the last country to sign, that's what you said in the opening statement yourself, Kyoto Protocol. A few days ago, we saw that she was the last country to sign a CEFTA agreement. So much for intensity, for effort, for wanting to join European and world integration. So they're mostly declarative nature, in fact a little bit is realized. I would like to remind you that in Serbia, since I was working intensively at a time of danger that could have caused the existence of TDI in basic chemistry in Baric, the first banned rally was on May 29th 1990. I repeat, the first forbidden rally, because the wishes and goals of the rally were to remove the potential Bopal from close proximity to Belgrade. Mr. Minister, I would like to commend your reactions to the pollution of certain river flows, because I always want to tell the truth, regardless of political and other differences. You reacted without delay, quickly, filed criminal charges, and it's really something new, and I think that's how it should be done. I think that the danger of global air pollution is much greater than that of killing Serbian citizens quietly than that of individual fishing in individual rivers in Serbia. With that in mind, since I live in that environment, I would like to remind you and ask you, in what way the Kyoto Agreement, as something that belongs to it -- let's think globally -- will be realized in that segment that it says -- let's act locally. Here's an example, since I live in Obrenovac, and you know the position of Obrenovac, the circular layout of the "Nikola Tesla" plant A and B, the ash and slag dump, the industrial zones of Barič and the collobary power plants and the heat plant. So, what are the perspectives of the Obrenovac? In the process of producing electricity, the thermal power plant burns annually at an average of 21 million tonnes of low-quality coal, leaving four million tonnes of ash. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're aware that there was an accent 20 or more days ago at the ashes of Termo Power Plant A. It was dark in broad daylight. Do you know that people around, settlements Mladost, Breska, Krtinska, Urovci, etc., that they have ashes in the freezers. Every plant that is planted in the root has ashes in its core. The harmful consequences are tragic, as this is reflected in the disease, respiratory tract disease. The most endangered population is, and that's the most tragic, children, and then comes that part of the population that makes up girls between 15 and 25 years of age, and then everybody else breathes that black Obrenovoci air. The number of patients is dramatic, due to respiratory tract disease, bronchitis, bronchial asthma, various forms of bronchitis and asthma. It has been increased dramatically, the number of cancerous diseases of the throat, lungs, uterus, breast, etc. Enormously incomparable more than anywhere. I would ask you to explain to us what will be the direct consequences or direct effects, and whether there are, signing and ratifying the Kyoto Agreement, where we are, I repeat, again unfortunately, the last, as well as when it comes to CEFTA, by these concrete allegations that I have made, and in this case refer to the territory of the Obrenovac municipality. There are examples like this, because when citizens listen to these terms, Kyoto protocol, ratification, and so on, there's a lot of things they don't understand. They want to know whether they will be assured that there are no more ashes -- that the electrofilters will be replaced with modern, modern -- which will poison Serbian citizens, because they sink and sink daily, 219 tons of ash comes out through the chimneys of the thermopower plant. The data is dramatic. I would ask you once again, finally I repeat for the third time, to see the practical effects of signing and ratification of the Kyoto Protocol for citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5692	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, let the MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared, and then the MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5693	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, change ministers, change governments, change so-called. Democratic bloc, but on the territory of South Banat, i.e. in Pancheva, where the dirtiest technology and industry has been concentrated since 1963, beginning with Azotara, which opened in 1963, then Rafineria and Petrochemy. Ladies and gentlemen, the government was setting up ministers, but she wasn't giving them assignments. Citizens of South Banat, especially the municipalities of Panchevo and the city of 130,000 inhabitants, is a city that is extinct. It is a city where only Petrochemy produces more than the entire national income of Montenegro. The funds from the Panchevo municipality are mostly used, used by the Government, but the citizens of the Panchevo municipality see nothing better, just see them up. The citizens of Panchevo municipality are forced to close windows, evacuate, and that the government and minister, and if they hear, and if they are informed and called on to say that the situation is catastrophic and that the disease of cancer and other pulmonary diseases in Serbia is the largest, the government of the Republic of Serbia only knows about the money and draws profits, but nothing to leave the citizens of the Pancheva municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, some organs have intervened, but not effectively enough. Whenever citizens file criminal charges against an unknown perpetrator, mostly judicial authorities, the prosecution and the court rejects it. The Ministry isn't answering. I have repeatedly referred to the problems of the Pancheva municipality and pollution. Take statistics from the Health Services, you will see that it is one of the cities, in fact the most polluted city in Serbia. I would like to point out that there is a refinery, Azotar and Petrochemy in the southern industrial zone. Azotara is privatized. There was an enormous pollution recently, but he bought this factory, under strange circumstances, a foreigner, a Lithuanian, who banned even the inspection from carrying out an insight and to determine the degree of pollution at that time carried out by Azotar. The Panchevo oil refinery is one of the polluters, too, the big and the biggest. Now I'm going to ask you a question, so please count it on my parliamentary question, please stop the time. I'm asking the government, and I'm asking the public to be notified, and to be submitted to an oil import tender, annex oil import contracts, complete oil imports, and that data for 2004 and 2005. I ask the question, is it true that service oil processing was carried out and requested, and that they were executed, and that, the private company "Trizon", "Delta Group", and whether or not its owner, Trifunović Zoran? Secondly, AD "Nafta" Boban Atanakovic and Dragan Djordjevic, then "Petrobart", Obradović and Zatezalo, and what are the quantities of oil on Pančeva territory today? And I'll remind you that oil is imported from the worst quality and that it is now concentrated and lags on the territory of the Pancheva municipality. No one buys it anymore, and she's the biggest contaminant. It will not be bought either by Bulgaria or Romania, because Romania has its huge springs, following its entry into the EU, around Ploesti and this oil today is mainly on the territory of the Panchevo municipality, which pollutes our city and our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Petrochemy, I will remind you that Petrochemy is now able to celebrate 30 years of work, that Petrochemy has 2,400 employees, that Petrochemy produces 1,400 to 1,600 natural gasoline and processing for certain industrial products. What's going on now? After Jelizara Smederevo, it is one of the biggest exporters, so Petrochemija exported 210m euros in products last year, 140m euros for domestic needs. Ladies and gentlemen, what I'd like to say about petrochemicals, petrochemicals has 11 factories in their composition and every factory has its own products, but it's part of the company. What's been going on for the last three years? For the last three years, criminals, mobsters, thieves who want to privatize Petrochemy have been waiting around that factory, hanging around the gates. But how to privatize? To privatise by selling one factory at a time and taking down the price, to eventually reduce the price, and to later profiteers, people who have come to the funds in different ways, people who come from abroad, who are also connected to certain structures of the government, want to take down the price of these factories. They have two systems. First, the current management, which managed to repair 450 million damages after the bombing of the NATO Pact and NATO villains, to reconstruct all 11 factories in production and function, and they want the factory to survive as a company now and to raise its price through privatisation. The government of the Republic of Serbia is mainly trying to sell these factories and lower their price, and to sell for small money huge factories, huge giants, European standards and European capacity, for sale in indemnity, as Sartide was sold. Why doesn't national security now come up with evidence of who signed the Sartide deal? They're hiding the data, and that's why Jocic's struggling to get the information on who's supposed to be sitting on the defendant's bench for millions of dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to prevent Petrochemy from being the biggest giant after U.S. Steel after export, and that's the only state-owned factory in Serbia now, to prevent it from being pitched and sold individually, and to get their price up, in no way do we get the price down. They're trying to change management now, they want a new management, who cares about it that way, but with those who wait at the gate, with bodyguards to get into the factory, to rip it apart, and sell it into debauchery. Ladies and gentlemen, an environmental tax has been introduced in Panchev. For the past few years, 850 million dinars of environmental tax have been charged. I ask Mr. Minister if he knows if Panchevo has been monitoring and whether it works or not, if it doesn't work, since when it doesn't work, why and who's to blame? I ask you a question, to give me an answer, where 800 million dinars were spent in environmental tax, is the environmental tax spent on purpose or not, where did the funds go? Secondly, whether the government of the Republic of Serbia will take steps to protect Petrochemy, to maintain its price and to increase its price, and certainly not to the mobsters, criminals and the new management that is announced, to replace the current management, to force it to sell out. It's gonna be safe. It is the only state, national factory in Serbia, the largest and strongest in terms of production. She is of strategic interest to all Serbia. So I asked questions about oil. I repeat, who is the one who asked for service oil processing and where there are huge amounts of oil in the Pancheva municipality, which are poisoning citizens; secondly, who imported it, who gave permission and what quality it was, because it is the worst quality, and it is sold at the highest prices in Europe. So, Minister, if you think you're going to be a minister, you're going to be on shift first and foremost. If you don't take action, you should resign. If you are able, please, Mr. Minister, sit in that chair, but you will have to do your job to which you are bound. You're right, but you have obligations. You must take measures, primarily to protect citizens, and on the other hand to protect state property. The thieves have scattered everything, the thieves have taken everything away. Here, just look at the statistics sold to the company after they were sold. Take only to Pancheva Luka "Dunav", which has been sold for nothing. Now that profiter is selling 20m euros more than she cost two years ago. Keep in mind, therefore, that the municipality of Pančevo and the citizens of Pančevo municipality expect much from you. Either resign or take action. Please check how many criminal charges have been filed with the municipal and district attorney in Panchev and the fate of these criminal charges, whether an investigation has been conducted, whether someone has responded or is simply said "we will file a criminal complaint"? Since that violation, the citizens of Panchev have nothing. Panceva's extinctions, there are huge treasures being created, but the citizens of Panceva have nothing to do with it and therefore Serbian radicals have repeatedly advocated in Panceva and asked for certain measures to be taken. Let me ask you one more question, Mr. Minister. Since you became Minister, have you visited the southern industrial zone in Pancheva? Do you know that for the last three years, no minister has come, only if you have come, to visit the South Zone industry, and to see how they live in the Vojlovica settlement, the Sagittarius, the Small Butt, Topola, Sodra, the Centre, Tesla, etc.? It's a catastrophic condition. It's interesting, you don't live in Pancheva and you can't feel the air. Citizens have been in a situation so many times they've been evacuated. In the election campaign, DS hired even the president of the Republic to come and join in the election campaign, because the president of the municipality couldn't pull the buttons himself, so he was supposed to come running from Belgrade and Pajtic from Novi Sad, and at the same time came from a coffee shop from Belgrade in 15 minutes and agreed on when to include those sirens. Why don't they include them after all that, when the election's over? It can't be Panc's subject to the procedure and to serve in pre-election campaigns and thus to deceive and deceive citizens and to inflict irreparable damage on them. The Serbian Radicals will in future monitor whether you have monitoring, whether you are involved in those actions or not, whether you are doing something. We won't allow it anymore, nor will we be silent, we'll take it to the bar level, but we'll take it to the level of the Republic, to know who should be responsible for the situation, because there's a lot of human factors, but above all, the state promised, I remember, three years ago the Deputy Prime Minister was Labus, and when we called him here that there was an evacuation of citizens, he ran to Panchevo immediately the next day and said, "We need the government to watch, 360m euros to reconstruct the South Zone industry." No more talking, Mr. Minister. Your job is a responsibility. You can't be a philosopher. You must come to Pancheva and Pancheva to resolve the situation. If you don't resolve it, you should resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5694	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, let MP Vlado Sekulic be prepared. We will wait to see about these parliamentary issues of mathematicians, Mica Albianic and Shami, to calculate what was in these issues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5695	Dear Mr. Chairman Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, dear fellow MPs, I have no doubt that the Ministry of Environmental Protection will address issues both in Panchev and in Vrbas, and in Bor, because these are certainly the priorities of this ministry and we have heard about it in public. I mention here and the Great Back Channel in Vrbas, not out of desire to replicate Mr Vasiljevic, but just to introduce him to a few facts, because he was talking here about a project to revitalise the great Baška Channel, where he said that he would rather have been done by our experts than by the experts of Norway 'Nive'. I had a responsibility to do public affairs at the time in Vrbas, I was then the president of the municipality, I was a MP and deputy president of the Committee on Environmental Protection, when co-operation was established with Norway, which with 1.3m euros participated in the resolution of the revitalisation of the Great Baška Channel. Norway is one of the countries that has not conditioned its assistance to anything. Their water institute "Niva" is hired for a simple reason, they have their own water institute, they have solved environmental problems within Norway, they find them a job somewhere in the world and they say -- here's your money, go and solve that environmental problem. Of course they accepted and did, but our experts were also hired from the Faculty of Technology in Novi Sad, Professor Bozo Dalmatia, and many others. So they participated at the time with 1.3m euros in the Grand Bačka Channel Revitalisation project, which is a huge problem for the municipalities of Vrbas, Kula, Srbobran and Vienna, as well as for the entire Danube basin. I once named him as a journalist -- the largest open septic cave in Europe. So then Ambassador Hans Ula Urstad wanted to help solve this environmental problem, because we really couldn't solve it ourselves, as the Czech Deconte was later involved, etc. Our experts have been involved. As for the local ecological action plan, it was introduced. I have to say here, the truth is, these projects as regards the Norwegian Water Institute "Niva" and the Norwegian Government continued and when there was a change of local authorities because it's a problem beyond foreigning, which exceeds our party interfaces, because that channel poisons both radical children and children of those whose parents are in DS, the SPS, and it far exceeds that. I wish we could get to that position that, like in Great Britain, we have plans to develop local self-government for the next 20 years, so no matter who's been running local self-government right now, he knows which way to go and what problems citizens need to solve. So all of this was continued and after the change of government of the locals, our satisfaction was left with the Norwegians, and they also participated in financing the second phase of the collector. We hope that soon we will solve these problems with the European Agency for Reconstruction and the Investment Capital Fund. The minister has a sharp course for contaminants, he's already proved it and I'm in favour of the course that the minister has introduced since he took office. He just shut down, even with the inspection directly at the polluter door, who wouldn't let go, because we had the same problems, they didn't want to release inspection services, they just said -- come in a week. Then, of course, they flush clean water, and when you come in to measure, there's nothing. This time the minister left with the inspectors, and they had to let go, and the polluters were closed. I expect problems to be solved both in Vrbas and Pancheva, both in Bor and in many other cities. To return only to the basic subject, I won't take too much time. So, the topic is the proposal for a law confirming Kyoto Protocol with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. So, environmental protection, pollution, it's becoming more and more a global problem, the problem of the country's planet, and I see this Kyoto protocol and this framework convention as an effort for humanity to solve some problems. That it takes all of us to join together on this planet, because this is a common planet, and it goes beyond the state and interstate borders, even the borders of continents, and that this is actually the effort that we join by ratifying this Kyoto protocol here in the Serbian Parliament. In 200 years, if we go with one development that won't take care of environmental protection, so we'll destroy everything, there won't be a living world anymore, and then it'll be completely pointless. Is there a question -- development or life? Both are called sustainable development, how to develop, and to protect the environment, and that is, I believe, the common goal of all the political parties here in the Serbian Parliament and all the citizens of Serbia, because above all, this is the problem of all citizens, as I said. The main objective of this Convention, which is to ensure the stabilisation of atmospheric gas concentrations with a greenhouse effect at a level that would prevent adverse impacts on the climate system, etc., is spoken here. The effects that the Kyoto Protocol ratification will create and the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia for accelerated development have also been discussed. From a political point of view, it is also indicated what, I think the minister and many of my predecessors, fellow MPs, have said well, that from the legal point of view there is also a signal that we accept European values in the field of environmental protection, and that is the way we should go. From an economic point of view, we also talked about it, and I wouldn't take your time on that side. Here, for clarifications, it's about selling gas emissions. I think there's a few MPs that mentioned it, even when it wasn't present, shortly at the beginning of the afternoon session, Mr. Minister. So, selling gas emissions for those means, no annex 1 state, no valid, so waste. Also, joint investment, if, for example, a thermal power plant in Serbia is built together with Romania so that we share now a joint gas emissions, it also does not apply to these countries of the Non-Anexa 1st Protocol. And what's it worth? The concessions of the states that we are building with plants based on clean technologies; that is, one of the benefits that we get from signing, or ratifying this Kyoto protocol. It's one step to enter the world's environmental protection system and sign Kyoto protocol. Protecting the environment and natural resources is one of the three key pillars of sustainable development that I was talking about, along with economic and social. There is therefore an inadmissible slowness in approaching EU legislation. There are around 25-30% of EU legislation, some 27 000 pages, which should be transposed as soon as possible into national legislation in the EU's environmental accession process. All activities should therefore be placed in the position of setting professional, legal and institutional grounds for capacity building, as well as setting targets and priorities, with Serbia's goals in the environmental protection system in line with what has been achieved in the EU, once again. The visionary setting of the environmental protection system, which enables the integration of the environment into all sectoral policies through the conditions of sustainable use of natural resources, i.e. goods, and the comprehensive protection of the environment of air, water, land, plant and animal life, is the primary goal of which DS - Boris Tadic is seeking in this area. So, DS - Boris Tadic will vote to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, not because these Kyoto Protocols have ratified 171 countries or not because some country has not ratified, but because we are for EU entry, because we are for new investments, for new jobs, for politically respected, economically strong, culturally prestigious and environmentally pure Serbia, with a certain future. That is why DS - Boris Tadic will support the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5696	Thank you very much. The head of the SRS MP's club, Tomislav Nikolic, called according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5697	Only on the basis of Article 104, the SRS parliamentary group has its representative by this point and our MPs are well prepared for this item of the agenda, living this life every day for many years. Something to you from the Democratic Party, and I was encouraged to present the predecessor, a representative of the Democratic Party. You know, on the one hand, it's nice to talk about how we're going to have and how we need a healthy environment, water, air, land, but the question is whether you from the Democratic Party knows where you live and where you rule. You broke into banking in 2000 and 2001, you ruined businesses and workers especially because you were calamities directly to our socialist plant capitalism. What was built in the west of the 50s, 100s, 200 years, you've been in Serbia for a year and you've got what you've got. That's why you lost those elections and these now, even though you rule, but you lost the election. I've been tracking what Mr. Minister's been doing in the last month or two, and in these droughts, there have been very few incidents, and now you're telling me that I need to shut down every factory that drops water, gas or something. That's the easiest. The easiest thing to do is close down the factory, say goodbye, go home, no production, we'll have an ecologically healthy state. You are in power in Serbia, you are not in Norway in power. Our factories are not prepared for your authority. It's the easiest thing to close down all the factories. What did you do to people who worked there, what did you do to their families and their children? It's not that easy, scissors, cut, cut production, because some junk came out. Well, let's get whoever's supposed to answer because there's been a sea of fish or something, but the factories have been stopped, factories that didn't know they were going to be there, because when they were put into operation, no one told them, if within a year, two, three, five, you don't do something, don't install, you'll be shut down. All of a sudden, you act like you fell off Mars. I'd let you run England, you guys are great to run England, and we could do it right now. You know how to work, you know how to corrupt, you know everything. And you want to join the European Union. But this is Serbia's people. You may also punish all municipalities that have not paved all the streets, to forbid that there are municipalities that have no paved streets, since the European model is that every street is paved, but not paved. Our factories aren't ready for such rigorous measures I've seen in the summer. You're still bragging on TV. Did you clean up the environment that way? You're not. You stopped the factory, you stopped a sawmill that hired 100, 200 people and worked only in one city. When's it gonna work? When she has two, three, four, fivem euros to install filters or a paralyzer will come to take it for free and install those two or threem euros. You have to take care of that. We're a poor country, and we're a little bit of work that we've got, and you want to stop with rigorous measures. We're not ready for these rigorous measures of yours. We're ready for some transitional period. Make sure, Minister, that you provide favourable loans, that you provide donations, that in some way these factories are tailored and acceptable. And it is not true at all that Serbia is so polluted that it has to stop its industry and it is so polluting Europe that it has to stop its industry. Give these people some air in their lungs, two, three years, give them some deadline where they'll bring their technology to a level where they can introduce themselves to the whole world. Now, the easiest thing is, I repeat, since you don't even know what to do with them, because none of you have any idea what production is, none of you have ever hit me on the back. You're for the European Union, there's no factory there, it's banking and management, there's services, you're all training for services. So please be careful, no one will advocate that someone is poisoning our children, but no one can approve you when you stop what you've been doing for years, you know very well that you haven't given him a chance to fix it. This is a poor country, your loans are extremely expensive, more expensive than in the richest countries, you simply prevent them from improving the technological situation in their factory in any way and preparing them for someone to take them. You're alarming sirens, bells, walks, while you're out of control, as soon as you take power, shut up, no more pollution, no more anything. We call for caution when closing down the factories. Think about how many people, how many children you leave without bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5698	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5699	Dear citizens, distinguished colleagues, the problem of the Great Baška Channel and what they have as a consequence of the Vrbas municipality, Srbobran and Kula, also Vienna, are much greater than mentioned here. We have that 70 years polluted the Great Back Channel of the Tower and Vrbasa Industry. But what the deputy president of the SRS, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, said, we cannot treat the industry that way. We were just when we came to public office in Vrbas having meetings with representatives of these industries and we tried to find a common language and we found it. So now they're trying to get the community with us to solve the problem of the Great Baba Channel, to participate in its resolution. In this case, the Vrbas municipality had a vision of how to solve the problem of the Great Back Channel. It's the construction of a master collector, it's the construction of a wastewater factory, it's to put all the contaminants in that highway collector, at which end they'll be a wastewater factory. We are pleased to see that in this case, the regional secretariats and the republican ministry have seen and entered this train that we started three years ago. We found this story about a Norwegian donation, we knew to bring it to an end. We also knew in Norway, in their foreign ministry, that we were talking equally, to convince them that it was much more necessary not only to invest money in projects, but to build these projects. Not to keep these projects in the drawer, as it used to be, but to go into construction, to give us money, and to give us 1,250,000 euros to build the third phase of the Master's Collector, there was also a municipality with 700,000 euros, built the third phase. We now have the fourth phase, which should also come and collect wastewater from the Tower and thus we have, along with what the Vrbas municipality has done in the past three years, which is that it has built a complete sewerage in the city of Vrbas, and is currently building a sewerage in all villages of the Vrbas municipality, also building the northern arm of the Master's Collector, which brings these wastewaters from the village to places where the future wastewater factory will be. She also had a vision of not building more facilities than to invest in the central facility, which should also be built at the end of the Master's Collector. She managed to raise it to the national level, to bring everyone together, because we said the Vrbas municipality couldn't finance it on its own, because only the first phase of the wastewater factory cost 13.5m euros. In addition to the municipality – which has so far invested more than 7m euros for these three years in addressing the issue of environmental protection, the construction of sewers, collectors and other plants to address the problem of environmental protection – has included the Republic, which has pledged significant funds, that international donors have also actively involved when they saw that the government in the Vrbas municipality sincerely wants to solve the problem of its citizens, to improve the quality of their citizens' lives and thus, as a colleague said earlier, we must all get involved in this problem together. I'm glad that in this case lately, when they saw that the train was on its way and that it couldn't be stopped, the circuit administration, in this case the Capital Investment Fund. At the request of the Vrbas municipality, he allocated 350 million funds. This and the active support of the Minister for Environmental Protection, because he also understood the problem of the Vrbas municipality, that this problem must be solved, I think the Vrbas municipality will be able to solve this problem in the next two years. This way, this problem must be solved and this must be a problem that, apart from Panchev, will be a problem for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5700	Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5701	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of all parliamentary parties, I have learned today that there is one new one, it is the DS coalition and Boris Tadic. Joke aside, I'm advertising a violation of article 225. Mr. Minister, I just asked you some questions. I didn't get an answer for them, I suppose you might be waiting for the end of the debate, so you can answer all the questions asked, but I'll be free to ask you one more question. I commended you earlier on for those spotting and emergency reactions to the sea fish, and now I ask you, Mr. Minister, did you file any criminal charges, I was talking about Obrenovac, because that's where I live, and it's killing me, against those responsible for "Nikola Tela" Termoelectrics for the incidents that have been going on for years. Because when the cloud of ash covers the Obrenovac and the environment, so in the middle of the day is the night, when the annual production of fruits, vegetables, food supply is destroyed, and, even more tragic, when quiet, slowly, for days, weeks, months, for years, the citizens of Obrenovac, children living in these villages and in the village itself of Obrenovac, it is not seen, it is not dead fish, it is not seen immediately, but it is a tragedy huge and the responsibility of these people is enormous. These people have a name and a last name, they receive very high wages for the work they do, but it's up to you to establish a system of responsibility. For that part of environmental protection, in addition to that which is significant and which you have responded to, but this is much more capital, much more significant, the consequences are much more catastrophic, the consequences of human health and life. People live there like a crematorium, and you have to react urgently. I'm asking you to respond, because that's your jurisdiction. For other contaminants, it is not your fault for the media pollution of Serbia; it is Serbia's radio-television and Aleksandar Tijanic's fault. He is the creator of media and mental pollution in Serbia, and now we see that he has support in the RRA, ruled by some alcoholics and drunks, and my friend, Aphorist Ilija Markovic, sent me a wonderful aphorism. He says heaven was a god of the sun, RRA is both a god and a beating; but it is no longer in your jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5702	Free Maras according to the Rules of Procedure and prepare Vlado Sekulić and then Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5703	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting on a violation of Article 226, or I am asking you, Mr. President, for an explanation and an answer, whether the TV broadcasts of the Assembly session will be suspended, reduced or delayed during your term, or whether tonight, when the 19:00 basketball game starts, whether the transfer will go on TV. Yesterday, I spoke of a media mob led by Mr. Miroslav Miskovic, who formed together with Prime Minister Kostunica "Media Group", which is the following newspaper: Press, Kurir, Novosti, Standard and, preferably, Public Service. Why am I saying this? The editor-in-chief of the Public Service is Mr. Aleksandar Tijanic, the July minister, who dared to come to the Assembly yesterday, line up the heads of the parliamentary groups and give a lecture to MPs in how they should behave in this assembly. He said he would not suffer an obstruction made by the opposition in the assembly. Yes, an imperfect high school boy, 20 years back, an associate of all possible services, has come to give a lecture to the MPs elected by the citizens. It was chosen by Kostunica, Tadic, Miskovic and Jovica Stanisic. What makes the media want to make a picture that MPs are the ones who have obstructed this parliament for 45 days and didn't want to work? Because that's the same for Kostunica and his mentor, the head of Serbia as well, Mr. Miskovic. I have to do it because of the DS MPs, and fortunately there is the president, or the DS minister, and you, Mr. President, I remember you mentioning how you participated in the 96th year with the citizens in the protests. There is, of course, Srdjan, Mr. Konstantinovic, I don't see him, but I would like to remind you who Mr. Tijanic is. The man who was elected to the government of Mirko Marjanovic on 28 May, and already 15. 7th as minister is applying for a misdemeanour procedure against the SPO, DSS and DS. During his term, two stations were shut down, the only one then freed in Belgrade, the Radio Index and Radio B92. Also in 96, demonstrations began throughout Serbia over election theft and what Mr. Tijanic said at the cabinet's session. Gentlemen of the DS, please listen to this. Except for the other things he said like this, it was the fifth day, and the date was December 3rd.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5704	Mr. Marash, you've run out of time, I'm listening very carefully, I don't understand the purpose of your reporting, you've opened five topics, please read one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5705	I've only opened one topic. Only if you let me read this. Tjanic: 'When it started breaking, while they were only breaking, they had to intervene on the fifth day, intervene politically, intervene, if you want me to use the term, communally. 'And you know what he meant: we're scum.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5706	The People's MP Vlado Sekulic has the word, and let the MP Vesna Marjanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be on my way from you, Mr. Dragin. In line with point 2 - reasons for the law being passed - the reasons for the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol ratification law under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change are said to be the first priority of political, legal and economic nature, as well as of importance for the protection of the environment. You as a minister should have, since this is a law that discusses climate and climate change, to put this first. This creates the impression that the first policy is important and that you are here somewhere on the seal and that this is something pro-forma that needs to be done. And that's what you see from this argument in the back, where you say it nicely -- since all the other countries in the Eastern European region have already ratified Kyoto. This isn't the first agreement, this goes from the action plan to the tobacco law we've seen, and it's always that story. They all signed, we're still waiting, and that's the last obstacle for the EU. There you should, if you're a true resolute minister, put what's important to you first. What I'd like to say is that in the whole world, the Kyoto protocol has been one of the most controversial contracts of the last decade, and it's controversial in that part, because America, the United States, as the greatest contaminant, doesn't want to sign that protocol and then the question is, why is it that everyone is in principle now pressure to sign the Kyoto Protocol, and it's also imagined to be a real breakthrough in the fight against dangerous climate change? And the U.S. is the largest polluter, because 36% of the gases that produce the greenhouse effect are produced in the U.S. industry. Another country that didn't want to sign either is Australia. Australia is a big country, but if we look on the other side it can be like a branch of the United States, and what's really controversial and strange, it's an explanation of America and Australia that if we signed the Kyoto Agreement, it would endanger the standard of living for its citizens and the economic development of their countries. This is very illogical. If they would endanger it, and if they, as George Bush said, will not accept the Kyoto protocol for financial reasons, I am now interested in how they do not have the money to accept Kyoto protocol and Serbia is running to accept it. By that logic, Mr. Dragin, are we a richer country than America and Australia? What exactly are we going to get? I read the explanation you gave, and I followed your statements before this session, and you wrote that you would sharpen the penalty measures. So far, the fine has been three million for gas producers that produce the greenhouse effect, you will rise ten times higher and the fine will be 30 million. Mr. Dragin, will that also apply to Sartide, and to Azotar, which are privatized under strange circumstances? Are you allowed to enter the Sartid and carry out all these controls, and you can see how polluted Smedereva is, not to mention Pancev, especially where Azotara is. As Mr. Todorovic says, we will fear for your safety. But that's why I'm telling you, you know how America keeps its capital, if they wanted to sign the Kyoto Agreement, they would have accepted the obligation when they bought Sartide, under strange circumstances. They knew they had to comply with the laws on conservation and environmental protection. They obviously don't follow, especially Azotara Panchevo. Panchevo is extremely endangered, and Obrenovac comes first. Now I'm gonna get you back, Mr. Dragin, for something. When the budget was adopted, we saw that, besides the Ministry, commissions and secretariats, who had a lot of money, worked two or three times when they talked about the recycling of toxic matter. And then I said, Mr. Cvetkovic explained, that it is better for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environmental Protection to invest in domestic companies that are not yet privatized, which are under the patronage and ownership of the state, to do this prevention, one right to prevent pollution reduction, filtering, and that these companies that are privatised, which you, Mr. Dragin, have entered, if you can punish and send the inspection there. I read that you've stepped up the inspection. When we see that you've punished Sartid, then you'll set an example for the rest of us. For our companies still owned by the state, we should look at some preventive measures, where the state should invest in these companies so that they are not polluters. As for all of these, except for the U.S., who didn't sign this, there won't be a large percentage increase in temperature. It's been calculated that by 2100 years, without America, only 0.1 Celsius will decrease the temperature. Scientists predict that from 1.4 to 5.8 degrees Celsius will increase temperature. I'm going back to the story of America. I wanted to say that I have a terrible feeling that all of this has been done so quickly now so that from October 10th to October 12th 2007, where the Serbian Government will promote at the Ministerial Conference the environment for Europe, that it is only one marketing part, where the Serbian government will take a nice picture and everything else to do to show that we are so interested. You saw Russia didn't enter the Kyoto Agreement. Well, there'd be less than 50% of the members. The Russians just brought that over the percentage. Since there's more colleagues to talk about, I'll be brief. Let's be specific, let's see what the situation in Europe is like with the countries that signed Kyoto. Spain, Portugal and Ireland have terrible problems reducing their quotas, they cannot achieve. Italy complains about the great cost of Kyoto Convention. Mr. Dragin, Mr. Minister, 150 billion a year, everyone should know what I'm talking about, cost Kyoto a protocol for all Member States. You'll say we won't pay for anything later. This pure technology when it comes to us, you know that in these conditions it's hard to identify and determine pure technology. I said that countries that are much more developed than us have problems. Where are we in that story? We are here for the sake of order and to justify that story, which everyone in the DS, now hears that you are Boris Tadic's party, says that this is the last obstacle to entering Europe, the European Union is waiting for this and more. In four days we heard that, and the DS gentleman said it was national interests. Is that what I was talking about this morning about the tobacco law, the national interest in abolishing the buy-in of tobacco and keeping our tobacco producers on the street? At least by the SRS it's not a national interest. Apparently, it was an interest to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5708	Thank you very much. The word has a folk letter, Vesna Marjanovic, and let the apostle Bozidar Koprivica be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, at the end of this debate, very briefly, the impression is that the debate so far has actually shown that the proposal for a law to confirm the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the whole area to which this Protocol applies to our Parliament and our society does not only have economic significance, professional and environmental, but is primarily a serious social topic and a topic that should foster a new wave of thinking about the future and the essence of our way of life. This question is also a patriotic question because patriotism implies that we protect the country by not polluting it, by not poisoning the air that we breathe, and by not polluting our rivers. And in the world, many of them have long closed their eyes to the phenomena that have just been agreed on by the Kyoto Protocol, trying to prevent, so the skeptics who have been putting their heads on the warnings of global warming have experienced dramatic demos that give us daily life and events that we and all the countries of the world have faced in recent years -- droughts, heats, forest fires. So we heard it all and saw it, and only a month ago. The sobering occurs exactly when people feel on their skin that they are globally becoming local. Therefore, we in Parliament and at all levels of government, and as citizens, should ask ourselves more and more the question of how we are preparing ourselves, how we are fighting adverse climate change, whether we know enough about the consequences that these changes leave for our economy and our lives and the health of our citizens. We don't leave enough space to deal with it until there's been some big ecological disaster. So I would like to repeat the basic reasons that my colleagues have repeated, which is why the Democratic Party is voting for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. We vote for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol because it allows financial support to developing countries, which also includes Serbia, and respects their right to achieve their own economic development; because industrially developed countries are provided for special responsibility and obligations, while developing countries are not bound by any new obligations, but are given the right to support funds and mechanisms under the Kyoto Protocol; because participation in projects of the Clean Development Mechanism can mean attracting capital for projects that promote economic development, transfer of clean technologies and the creation of new jobs and because 30% of those laws that we are making our way to Europe are precisely from this area. Global greenhouse gas emissions, according to some studies, continue to grow. The world is getting more and more serious about the future, and more attention is being paid to the environment. Even some big corporations are beginning to understand the effects of climate change, not only because of fear of regulation or image, but because they realize that energy that is clean means new technologies, and new technologies mean new opportunities for profit. The Kyoto Protocol cannot fully resolve the issue of environmental protection, but it is an extremely important step, and therefore its ratification does not only mean the adoption of one reasonable and potentially useful law economy, but also an incentive for an increased degree of awareness regarding the protection of natural resources, without which there is no healthy and normal life. The environmental law, which passed the previous assembly of this parliament, defines among other things the principle of information and public participation in the exercise of the right to a healthy environment. It is our job in Parliament and the task of this government to ensure that citizens are granted this right, but also to provide them with the necessary education, so that they can participate in the understanding of these problems and their prevention. Minister Dragin recently said there is no compromise with contaminants. Mr. Minister, your decision deserves full support and we believe you will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5710	Thank you very much. The word of the people is the messenger of God, Koprivica; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr. Jagoda Jorga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5711	Dear People's MPs, we are witnessing the special dangers of life on the planet, as well as the dangers of the largest number of protected natural values in Serbia. How to ensure the right of a man to live in a healthy environment? How to protect the environment, how to reduce and address all forms of environmental pollution? How to protect especially endangered environments, such as Pancheva, Bor, Majdanpek, Belgrade, Obrenovac? How do you stop further degradation of the environment? These are all questions that are not answered by this incompetent DOS and puppet government. The citizens of Panchev are exposed, honourable MPs, eco-terrors, in the form of silent killings, which will especially affect our offspring, those who come and who are yet to come. Pancheva, where I come from, has been called, rightly, the black ecological point, which has moved fear into every house and every soul of my fellow citizens. Protests of powerless citizens do not reach the state and contaminants from the southern Pancheva industrial zone, whose leaders and our main poisoners have long been Rafineri and Azotara. The explanations that come from them and the states are pointless and look like a broken record, which spins one and the same, and nothing is achieved or does the right thing. On the contrary, the percentage of pollution is increasing and becoming more dangerous. I wonder justif the citizens of Pancheva will start packing suitcases and leaving, and where we have to ask ourselves. It's high time the authorities and contaminants realized that nothing interfered with human health. State authorities must, with true and real data, come before citizens about the amount of harmful substances released by the South Zone factories in Panchev, not constantly lying and misleading citizens. The plant, which is a source of pollution, is obliged to monitor emissions, is obliged to monitor the state of the environment continuously, but instead of monitoring, they repeat stories that are not even for young children, because every time their lies, delusions, are denied by major haematisms and environmental poisonings and, unfortunately, by the number of patients and deaths from various types of cancers. The daily stress of fear of what will bring us a new day or night, which we spend blinded and with wet cloths, increases many other diseases, including frontal diseases of the heart and blood vessels. The state authorities are obliged, starting from the Republic to local self-government, to regularly, in good time, fully and objectively inform the public about the state of the environment. They are obliged to inform citizens about the development of pollution, which poses a threat to human life and health. Instead, they use lies and fraud, release sirens like Srdjan Miljkovic in Pančev, of course he is "yellow", just ahead of the elections. Nature doesn't forgive negligence, so it's high time to ask ourselves what's in the way: our lives or the lives of our descendants, or they're obstacles to contaminants and their activities, under the auspices of the current DOS government. Of course, our lives are more obstacles and our poisoners are obliged, if they have to work already, to protect the citizens of Panchev and throughout Serbia and to create conditions of survival in our midst. That is why it is in vain for our poisoners to confirm this law on the ratification of the UN Convention on Climate Change, because ice melting is a very hot topic for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5712	The People's Messenger, Jagoda Jorga, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, a lot has been said here about the environment so-called. I view the environment as a place where people live. I'm so interested in the environment. I'm not here to argue with definitions, but I'm here to provide you with some data, which was presented in 2005 by the World Health Organization, which says that, directly from the consequences of environmental pollution and the working environment in the world, two million people die annually. Every day, and these three minutes as I speak, six thousand people die, every minute four people die as a result of environmental pollution. So in 2005, which is repeatedly mentioned, for the first time, it's actually this so-called. the risk quantified and placed in a specific framework. I'm saying all of this for reasons that it can do us good, for us as people who are here to make sure that people live better, to live longer, to live better. It's a measuring instrument that we can measure tomorrow the effects of those laws that I hope will follow after the ratification of the Kyoto Agreement, because it certainly is to Mr. Minister, and to all of us here it is absolutely clear that Kyoto does not solve everything in general. But Kyoto is an important link in that chain of a rounded environment conservation system, but not just in the sense that it's some stock for the future, it's the present. Based on these and these measurements, new and completely new, lower concentration border emissions have been proposed, there have been many questions and discussions on whether and whether this should follow what we are talking about, whether this is due to this new legislation. They're not the standards of Europe, they're not the world's standards, so we can just join someone. They serve precisely that we are quantifying the effect of sitting here for nine hours and saying tomorrow, we are going to ask the government to show us what the effect of these measures is. The other aspect, apart from health itself, is the aspect of food. This country has been strategically defined for the production of something commonly called healthy food, i.e. in our termology, healthy food. Does anyone here think that someone will believe us when they see that picture of the craftsman's thermoelectric power plant, that healthy and good peppers grow underneath it? He won't. One of the elements that we really show the world that we are the country defined for what we're talking about and that we fully follow what we started five years ago. So, the introduction of a complete set of laws to preserve the environment. In the end, a little suggestion from the minister who is here, and that is, would be very good if the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Health cooperate, and that really good indicators of the effects of what we're going to do come out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5714	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5715	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever the government signs an international agreement, they represent it as something big. However, it is not about what is signed, but about what has been done in the past, what is done in the present, and on this basis, it is about what the future is like. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, what has the government done so far in the past to reduce emissions of harmful gases and particles? The second question - are there subsidies in the future and does anyone even consider giving subsidies to companies that have adapted their technical and technological production, which meet the conditions provided for in the Kyoto Agreement? How have laws that are quite rigorous in the territory of the Republic of Serbia been implemented so far? Let me ask the question - gas, which is currently the purest fossil fuel and the most environmentally correct, do you know what the price is when it's used for heating and why it's now one of the most expensive energy? Why, if you are in favour of preserving the environment, did you vote at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to introduce an excise on motor gas, the gas used to launch motor vehicles? What about subsidies to remote heating companies to reduce the number of individual small boiler rooms, which also pollute the environment? So far, as far as I know, you've just made that deal with the German Development Bank to deliver numbers that will measure spent heat? What about the ashes leaving the thermal power plant? Instead of seriously resuscitating existing ashes and doing projects where you're going to put new ashes on parts of the territory that won't endanger the environment, you're just raising their angle. For example, the ashes of Termoelectrica Kostolac, which not only has not been done, but is being raised, so that this ash, except that it threatens the citizens of Kostolac and Pogorec, goes both through Vojvodina and Banat. There's one more thing I'm interested in, Mr. Minister. So far, many have spoken about Sartide, and no one has asked a real logical question. Mr. Minister, how do you think you can force Sartid and Ju-es style to respect the law and Kyoto agreement; how can you force them when Alexander Vlahovic, Bozidar Djelic and Goran Pitic participated in the privatisation of Sartida? When it's set aside for that privatisation of $500 million, it's privatized for 25, how are you going to convince me that you're going to make them work by law, when the ministers who took a commission from them in that same government protect them?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5716	Thank you very much. The word has been given by MP Nikola Vukelic, and since there are no more reported on the list, there is a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is of course committed to protecting the environment. The environmental protection area hasn't been covered enough for us, and lately we've had ecological disasters. Our rivers are poisoned. In Toplica, Tissi, West Moravia, we had enormous fish poisoning. You've been talking praises here all day about Kyoto Protocol. Will by adopting this protocol help the citizens of Panchev, Smederev, Capca? I'm afraid you won't. We Serbian radicals, as people who love their country, want Serbia to be a safe and healthy place for us and the generations to come. We see from the materials that Kyoto Protocol was made up in 1997, and it came into force in February 2005. We see that the signatories of this Kyoto protocol and some of the countries of NATO are the pact. So, they too are claiming to protect and preserve the environment. How is it that, like countries that advocate environmental protection, hundreds of tons of clusters, and the worst of uranium, bombs have been dropped on our land. It was the first war NATO has fought in its 50-year history. These were the first bombs to be dropped on European soil from the NATO arsenal. It's about an event that will undoubtedly enter the dark side of world history. In the order of the victims of atomic bombing, behind Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Serbia will also be found. We, truth be told, went a little better because the bombs were with the poor, i.e. I'm dilated with uranium. What has our country earned such barbaric destruction by America and other NATO countries? Is it because we were defending part of our country from terrorists? Even America has put Kosovo's Liberation Army on the list of terrorist organisations in good time. Our defending our sovereignty seemed to be a fundamental sin for NATO to destroy the country with the impoverished uranium in our action "Mercy Angel". It wasn't the first attack on our people by the NATO Pact. The bombing of Serbia was also preceded by the bombing of our Serb people in Republika Srpska, and it is also known that Americans are involved and their assistance to the Nebosta army in the action "Storm" and ethnic cleansing of Serbs from the territory of Republika Srpska. Also in the bombing of Republika Srpska, poored uranium was used by alleged fighters to preserve a healthy environment. In addition to NATO bombing our country with impoverished uranium, and now stealing our territory, the Democratic Party is heartily seeking to enter the same NATO pact. At the same time, he allegedly advocates the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. Such stories of entering the NATO Pact directly push our finger around friendly Russia, which is our only hope that Kosovo and Metohija will remain in the composition of our country. Today we are discussing Kyoto Protocol and protecting the environment. Authorities are trying to convince us that this protocol should be accepted because they care about protecting the environment. It would be good if this story of the government's representative not only remained empty demagogy and a list of beautiful desires to protect the environment, while at the same time selling our factories to Americans, the biggest contaminants, who do not think of this Kyoto protocol as signing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5718	Here you go. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5719	Dear People's MPs and MPs, I sincerely thank you for the constructive discussion, for stressing the importance of resolving the issue of environmental protection in Serbia and beyond. The Ministry of Environment Protection will continue to strictly implement existing laws governing the field of environmental science, while at the same time trying to bring new ones that will further sanction contaminants and bring our country closer to the positive European standards that apply in this area as quickly as possible. I would repeat, if you permit, and on the issues of individual MPs, there are no private, social, state, foreign, domestic or any other companies for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and they will be punished. I can't tolerate it as a man, but even in this position, the owner of a company drives a 100,000-euro car, and his company pollutes a river, causes a fish to die or releases some gases into the atmosphere that really don't belong there. As a reasonable person, it is absolutely not clear to me that the same city where their children live is polluting and that the same river, from which their children drink water, release dangerous matter. It absolutely doesn't matter if it's a congregation broadcast on television or not, this is the problem we're dealing with as human beings. Unfortunately, many people in this country still do not understand the size of the environmental problem. Very important questions are raised here, very good questions, very good initiatives. I'd just like to list some. Recommendations relating to the licensing of legal persons, the purpose of licensing, the determination of certain benchmarks that have not been established. For sulfurdioxide, one of the MPs asked a question and said some criteria. I'd just like to remind you that the criteria are even lower in developed countries, 256 micrograms per metre cubic is allowed. For this reason, we set up a station in Bor for automatic measurement of emissions, so that when that value goes beyond that, every time it closes Topionica, it doesn't pollute Bor. Someone, in Bora, told me that when I was going around the community, wrote a spray on my way out of town, said, "Whoever last comes out, let the light go out?" I don't think it should happen again anywhere in Serbia, that's terrible. I'll tell you what we did. In Boro, a World Bank loan will be rescheduled. It's an extremely favourable loan. All the money our ministry received from the National Investment Programme has been directed towards a dam rescue on the Jalovište, which has threatened to threaten the Borska River. As you know, at one point we stopped the privatisation of RTB Bor for the reason we were not satisfied with the plan to protect the environment of the buyer. It's done again, a new environmental protection plan has been put in place, to get it right. As for Panchev, I don't know if you know what most of the Panchev people thought couldn't be done, it's that they can't stop the contaminants in Panchev. We stopped Azotara in Pancheva and didn't let her work until she fulfilled the Action Plan that they signed a year ago to fulfill. We're doing a lot with local self-government in Vojvodina. The big problem is the big master canal. Regardless of party membership, personal interests or anything else, we're working well with local self-government and we have no intention of stopping this co-operation, because it's a problem bigger than both the party and the people, it's an important problem and we're going to solve it. The issues of energy efficiency are mentioned, of course, important and we are working with Mr. Popovic, we hope that he will show a great understanding of this area, because in the previous term he was editing this problem, which is a major problem. Inventory of harmful gases, by signing a co-operation agreement with Montenegro, we have defrosted the funds that have been granted to our country to create this inventory and we have begun to do so. The Forest Mafia; our proposal is to stop the division of competences related to the control of natural resources, as recommended by UNECE. Integrated control of natural resources will allow it not to be done. What is very important, in our budget which is extremely modest, is that we have allocated significant resources to re-supply the surfaces, which have been destroyed by fires in our country. How does Kyoto relate to the place? A very simple answer - act locally and think globally. That's the way it goes. The Obrenovac thermal power plant, someone mentioned the problem, filed a criminal complaint against the Obrenovac Termo power plant over an incident that crashed some of the ashes into the river. How many criminal charges in Panchev? This year 1,700 applications related to environmental protection. For the first time, someone was detained and for the first time, someone was arrested in Serbia this year for environmental pollution. Accize the natural gas. Why the excise? Because gas is fossil fuel. There are biorenewable energy sources, such as biodiesel, bioethanol, biogas. When they come, they'll get excises. There's got to be a difference in that. The amount of pollution and whether industry needs to be allowed more time to adjust. In 2004, a law under which by 2015 all industries must have an IPPC permit, an integrated permit to prevent pollution. It's been three years, and I think enough time has passed. Whoever pollutes now will be punished. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-14-0.u5720	I am concluding a unique search of the bill. Continuing Monday at 10.00 p.m.
