ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15263	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few details before work. The government has sent an opinion on amendments submitted by MPs, which is currently on the road and will multiply within the next few minutes. There is Minister Markovic to explain the amendments. At the end of today's work, at the end of the voting day, a modest cocktail will be organized here in front of the gym, a modest service for the very end of our intensive work this year, so please attend. We'll wait another four minutes because the RTS asked us to, because there's a religious ceremony going on, to wait that long, and then a direct TV broadcast will begin. I'm asking for a little patience as far as the beginning is concerned. Further information: At 10:30 is the session of the Legislative Committee. I ask all Members of the Legislative Committee to attend the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15264	(The session began at 10:15 p.m. The chairman is Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15265	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search on all points of the sitting agenda, we are moving to search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Territorial Organization of the Republic of Serbia (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Vlatko Ratković, Milena Stanković, Nebojsa Rangelović, Slobodan Maras, together Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac, Miletić Mihajlović, Srdjan Šin and together Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee. At the session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov as member of the 10th and MP Srdjan Shin to Article 16. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposed representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before I give my word to the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic, here you are, Dr. Vukicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am taking the opportunity to leave at the very beginning for Article 225, and because of the urgency of the situation, because 300 citizens asked me to say on their behalf that there are 100 refugees from Kosovo in Kragujevac collective centre in Trmbas, 100 people who are extremely threatened at this time because they have not had electricity for several months. Namely, the conditions in which they live are not appropriate. The installation is not adjusted for the number of connections they are using at the moment, so there is a constant fire and ejection of the fuses and for several months they have no electricity. Among them are thirty children from six months to seven years, more people with disabilities. Since these people were addressing local self-government without the local self-government coming out of contact so far, they asked me to, in these difficult, cold days, ask the President of the Assembly to, in accordance with the powers and possibilities, through the Commissioner for Refugees, do what we can for people before New Year's Eve to have electricity and heating. They don't have or can't lay the boiler for the reason the boiler reaches high pressure and they're afraid of having the same explosion, which would cause even greater consequences. I was also asked by a five-member family located in the same collective center, who was forced to settle because she had no roof over her head. Namely, their home came on fire a few months ago. There's a pregnant woman among them. Local self-government, i.e. the main expert on social affairs of the town of Kragujevac Slavica Saveljic, ordered that the five-member family move out of the room. This young future mother, Djurdjevic Maja, has nowhere to go. Given that we are in favour of improving the birth rate, I believe that in this period, at minus three and a minute five, it is inappropriate and it is not normal to throw anyone out of the necessary accommodation. Again, I am using the opportunity to ask the President of the Assembly to try, in accordance with his powers and possibilities, to solve these two very big problems in the refugee village of Trmbas, for the pleasure of all those who cry, beg and seek help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15267	Thank you, Dr. Vucicevic. I hope we can help these people. I think on behalf of the entire assembly I can appeal to the town of Kragujevac to help as much as it can. Mr Miletic Mihajlovic does not want to talk about this amendment. We're moving on to the next amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The proposing representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15268	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I want to thank the legislator first on Saturday about 10.00 hours, which takes care of our condition, so he made it possible for us to run home after this resolution on Kosovo. Most of us were in their homes between one and two, but we had to be here tomorrow morning at 10:00 to read it, because that's the only time we saw these bill proposals. I also thank the president of the National Assembly for trying to fill our time of duty on Saturday. I hope 31st we have something to do. In the explanation of Mr. Minister, it bothered me when he said that Serbia is not only a decentralised country, but an example of decentralisation in the world. I remember one of my professors who claimed that Frank's constitution during his rule in Spain was a convincingly more democratic constitution ever written on earth. Well, it's not for comparison, but so is our decentralisation. LSV MPs have submitted several amendments to this proposal for a law on territorial organisation. Something I hope is accepted by the Minister and by the Committee, we will see when we get an opinion, and one of those who is not accepted is the one relating to Article 4(1). It's about how new units of local self-government are established or connected, abolished, or changed their territory. We didn't suggest anything else, but to add, in addition to the criteria laid down in the law governing local self-government, the part that reads – and the regulation of territorial autonomy. This is what we have proposed for the reason that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 185(2) literally says that the issues of its jurisdiction are decided by the Autonomous Province and other general acts. If it has the authority to pass such an act, then it should be built into all laws, respected. We will surely go out on several occasions today and try to explain that these laws, as well as some of the previous laws that we have discussed and adopted by this assembly, are being treated as an autonomous province as a bond of power. There is direct communication between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government, and the opinion or decision it has the right to make AP Vojvodina is not binding on local self-government, so local self-government can automatically skip over, and many are asking whether it is a tendency to deny the possibility of organising autonomous provinces and to further centralise the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15269	There is a word, according to the amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's time to remind ourselves of some of Serbian President Boris Tadic's things and promises. You will remember that in the time before the previous elections, one of his pre-election promises was that he would resolve "the Bodrum affair". Of course, he didn't think of it, only at that point did it look like a good marketing move. Immediately after the elections, he forgot his promise and said he could not solve all this within the DS, as he promised, but that it must be resolved by the judicial authorities. However, in order for citizens not to think that the "Solun" and "Bodrum" and the vote from Thessaloniki and Bodrum are precedents, I will now prove that the principle of action of the Democratic Party is at stake. We will see that Boris Tadic is also one of those famous "flyers" who manage to be in two places, and very remote places at the same time. What's this about? When local elections were held in the previous years, the Democratic Party has misused the absolute power it had there by not giving other parties the forms necessary to submit the candidacy until the moment the Democrats all gathered and handed over the first. They wanted to secure their first place on the election list. But in that counterfeiting, they got a little wrong... Mrs. Kolundji, pay attention, you didn't hear right, there's no draw, it's about the Law on Local Elections, so whoever first submits the list is the first. Here's how you did it. I'm going to talk about facts now. So on August 4, 2006, at 17.44 p.m.... Any information that I'm about to give right now can be checked on a short period of time, either via the Internet or in any other way. So, at 1744, Beta news agency reported that Predrag Markovic had called local elections in seven municipalities in Serbia, and besides in Barajev. Of course, the municipal electoral commission's obligation was to prescribe forms and allow all interested parties to download them, but it was not done. The Serbian Radical Party was therefore forced to object to the Municipal Election Commission where we stated that our electoral rights were violated and asked to be urgently called... So, August 10th, 2006 at 12:45 p.m.... Please, Mrs. Kolundzija, this is very important, and I am asking you as the head of the parliamentary group, asking the Minister for Local Self-Government, asking for a reply from the police minister and asking DS President Boris Tadic for an answer. Next, 10. 8. In 2006, at 12:45, Boris Tadic, accompanied by the RTS news team (the journalist was Tina Bilankov and cameraman Dejan Milanovic), a special flight from Belgrade leaves for Geteborg. Later that day, he met with Foreign Minister Jan Eliason, which Serbia's Radio Television reported in evening news shows. So it is undeniable that Boris Tadic is 10. Eight after 12.45 hours he was out of the country. Next, 10. 8pm, therefore, after Boris Tadic flew to Geteborg, the Serbian Radical Party objected to the Municipal Election Commission in Barajev over a delay in formulating. On the same day, therefore, August 10th, the first session of the Municipal Election Commission is held from 16 to 17:30, and we also have records to prove it. As part of the first item of the agenda, the Guidelines for the implementation of the rules on the selection of representatives of the Assembly of the City of Barajevo, as well as the forms for the implementation of certain electoral actions, have been adopted. Within the fourth item of the agenda, around 17 hours, an opposition to the SRS was decided. A conclusion has been drawn that, among other things, the President of the Municipal Election Commission received information on the phone from the cabinets of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the decision to call the elections was published in "The Official Messenger" on 9. 8. In 2006 and from that day on, elections are starting to take place. At the same time, we would like to inform you that the forms are prescribed by Article 23 at the session of the Municipal Election Commission prescribed 10. 8. In 2006, and that you can download them in the seat of the City of Barajevo Municipal Election Commission. Of course, this is an absolute lie, because the forms could not be reached by representatives of other parties except the representatives of the DS. The excuse that the president made is that they were at the multiplication. They were at the multiplication until the next day, 11. 8 p.m. at 14.10 p.m., when the forms were delivered to the SRS parliamentary group, but that was only after the Democratic Party submitted a complete list with all other data. So 11. 8. In 2006, at 11.30 p.m., DS Municipal Committee representative Branko Trifunovic submitted an election list of the Democratic Party (can be seen, this is the form); then, one of the contributions was submitted, form OB-3, and this is the consent of the applicant's electoral list of candidates in the Barajev City Municipality Assembly, signed in Barajev 11. 8. In 2006, by Boris Tadic. So, that's what everyone can see, here's the consent of the candidates' election list in SO Barajevo, and says, "I agree to be the bearer of the electoral list of candidates for committees in the Barajevo City Municipality Assembly, submitted by DS - Boris Tadic, in Barajev 11. 8. In 2006, and the list holder is Boris Tadic and his original signature. It is indisputable that at the time Boris Tadic was not in Barajev, but in Gothenburg. That's about five hundred and fifty-five miles by the air line. So it can be seen that it's a document that's original, not a document that's faxed or in any other way. Next, 11. At 2.30 p.m. Boris Tadic, after meeting with the chairman of the Volvo Management Board, also reported by the media, Leif Johansson, a special flight from Gettyborg, returns to Belgrade and lands at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. Is all this possible? I have complete documentation relating to this case. It is photocopies of original documents, and you can find the original documents in the Barajevo Municipality. So I repeat once again, for the sake of Serbian citizens: 10. 8 p.m. Boris Tadic left, flew to Geteborg, 11. At 2.30 p.m., he returned, and an election list for the Barajev elections was submitted at 11:30 p.m.. I also ask the Democratic Party's parliamentary group for an answer, asking the minister for local self-government that, in his opinion, this is possible. The question arises which steps he will take, as it is obvious that the candidacy is absolutely nothing. Of course, we are asking for both the public prosecutor and the police minister to be heard about this issue, but most of all Boris Tadic. If you don't have an answer, make sure we repeat this all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15271	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Alexander Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so as to conclude that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The proposing representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so as to conclude that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15272	I ask that a matter related to Article 8 be made public. It ran to a member of the 8th. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have a direct question for you regarding this law on territorial organisation that speaks of settlements, and another question -- what are the possibilities for this issue to be resolved during the debate. Namely, what's this about? In the section that speaks of inhabited towns, we talk about what is a populated place, what are the characteristics of the territory of a municipality that can be inhabited, etc. Have you consulted existing municipalities in Serbia in the construction of this law on territorial organisation? The second question, was the Lazarec Municipality consulted in these discussions? The third question, as early as 2003, SO Lazarec sent an initiative to identify new settlements and delete the old ones. Then came the letter from the government, the answer that the initiative was forwarded to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and that is what it cares about. What's this about? In the section that speaks of inhabited towns and catastrian municipalities on the territory of the Lazarec municipality, there is one inhabited place that has not existed for 10 years. You know that because of the expansion of kopete "Colubare" Lazarec, huge land areas are degraded in that municipality, entire households and settlements are displaced. So the Sakulja village stopped existing 10 years ago. On the other hand, you have a newly formed settlement called Novi Medoševac. There's even a proposal for a community of how, which makes that name. It's about people who are from another village, Medojevac, displaced to another territory of the Lazarec municipality. It is a settlement that is formed, which has its own infrastructure, has equipped and built housing facilities. All facilities to meet the needs of residents have. They asked to place the inhabited town of Novi Medoshevac, because it does not exist. On the one hand, the law contains the inhabited place of Sakula, which does not exist, and on the other hand, Novi Medoševac exists, but is not in the law. In the interest of these citizens, I would ask you to answer the question of what opportunities to make a correction, because if it is not done during the adoption of the law, then the procedure is again the same as in 2003 – the SO is to launch an initiative for change, then comes to the government, the government delivers to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, again stands there for several years etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15273	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15274	To respond to Mr Petronivic, but also to other fellow MPs who were interested in the names of the settlements, as well as to the change of borders of the existing local self-government units. So, in these six months, as far as we're talking about the adoption of a new law on territorial organisation, we haven't had any SO-local self-government initiative on changing the name of the settlement, establishing a new settlement or information that some populated place no longer exists. Of course, I fully trust Mr Petronivic that such an initiative exists in the ministry. Unfortunately, I admit I don't know that. It's simple, it was in 2002, now it's 2007, 2008, I don't know, but even if there was one I wanted to say next. Our goal when adopting a law on territorial organisation, when it comes to border changes and when it comes to settlement, was to establish a procedure and to prepare, in collaboration with local self-government units, any interventions in the territorial organisation law that we would carry out at the end of 2008, concerning border changes. Here I think of the Majdanpek municipality, let's see how we're going to solve the municipality of Požarec, or the future town of Požarevac, I mean the inhabited places, my colleague will remind me, we were just talking about it yesterday, now and for Lazarec. So, in early 2008 the ministry will send a letter to all local self-government units, with two questions: one applies to inhabited areas and the other to borders. At the end of 2008, in accordance with the procedures that we have now very clearly established (i.e. I hope we find out, we can make these changes. Anyway, I thank you for this intervention, and I will try to find the documentation you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15275	The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Stankovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15276	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I had an amendment to both Article 16 and Article 20 of the Law, because it concerns one thing. Unfortunately, I'm starting this exhibit without an opinion, or a report from the board of directors. I begin the story by reminding first of all Mr. Minister that in his ministry, as a resolute minister for this matter, I will find a conclusion from Mr. So Negotin's session as a proposal for a law to arrange the municipality of Negotin as a city, i.e. to gain the status of the city. I don't know if the amendment was accepted or rejected, I heard it was rejected, so I'm sorry I don't know what the reasons are so I can comment on it. Certainly, one of the criteria set out in the law, which is the number of inhabitants, is not already respected, so the SPS believes that this should not be a crucial criterion for this area, that there are many other criteria that are far more important. As for geographical predisposition and geographical criteria, I just want to remind myself that the German municipality is one of the ten largest in Serbia, with 39 local communities. What stands out of all other municipalities in Serbia is the fact that it is located on the three-way between Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria. Namely, there are two borders in the municipality of Negotin, and with Romania, that is the border of the Gerdap II Hydrocentre, which is eight kilometers from Negotin and the borders with Bulgaria, the Mokranje border crossing, which is 12km away. This is, we believe, of great strategic importance, because both Romania and Bulgaria are today members of the European Union, so here is the border of Serbia, the border of Negotin municipality with the European Union. Not only that, we think it's also strategically important that Negotin goes out on two rivers. These are the Timok River, especially the Danube River, which is also an international waterway. The Municipality of Negotin also meets other criteria that are important, such as economic, administrative, cultural and many others. I just want to remind myself that there is a significant economy in the non-China municipality, first of all the Prahovo Chemical Products Industry as part of the Mining-Topionist Baseline Bor, which has always been an important exporter for Serbia and we hope that it will retain that status. I also want to remind you of the Gerdap II Hydrocentral, which each year delivers about 2,500 billion kilowatt hours of electricity. It is an object that otherwise connects Romania and Serbia, it is a joint project. And not to mention the port of Prahovo located on the international waterway. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to pay attention, to hear a little bit about the Municipality of Negotin, I think it's very important, it's the citizens of Serbia, it's their interests. In fact, the Danube, at its current from Schwarzvald to the Delta, passes the Black Sea through eight states. It is Germany, Austria and Vienna in beautiful blue Danube, Slovakia, Hungary, Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria; even the Danube touches Moldovan territory. Of those eight countries, six are in the European Union. Here are our contacts, through the Municipality of Negotin, and the water, or rivers and land, with the European Union. With other parts of Serbia, this municipality is connected with river traffic, it is a Danube traffic in the course of Belgrade to Kladovo and the port of Prahovo; there is a highway reserved for the traffic of motor vehicles; also, a railway line that goes from the Prahovo ports, and I remind you that the village of Prahovo is the hub of river, land and railway traffic, via Zaječar, via Nis, Sofia, Istanbul and that part of the world. I would also like to remind myself that from the official railway road, only four kilometres of rail that would have come from the village of Samarinovac would have reached Gjerdap II, or this border crossing with Romania. As far as county institutions are concerned, Negotin has the District Court, the Historical Archives and the County Penitentiary. As far as the educational centre is concerned, it is certain that Negotin municipality is one of the most important in the region. Namely, I would like to remind myself that there is a teaching school in Negotina, that there is a high school of music, which is of county, perhaps regional importance, a high school that is one of the oldest in Serbia, a agricultural school that is not in the region, a former region, with a vine and fruit plant, a technical school, a basic music school and all other elementary schools. I also want to remind you that the Municipality of Negotin in its lower part has a very developed agricultural production, and in the high part well-developed livestock farming, so the stepby lamb may be known as pyrotic. We'll try it, hopefully, if the minister and the competent department of clearance and Negotin get the status of the city. Negotin is a significant tourist-recreative centre. Negotin is located at the foot of two mountains, I remind you, Mr. Minister, it's Deli Jovan and Miroc. Stephenic meadows are a well-known resort with the prospect of still being; Paradise brewery; the Vratna complex, which makes up a 14th century monastery, a hunting ground, a part of the national park and three stone grows into a canyon of the Vratna River; four hunting grounds in which hunters from Southeast Europe come, are enrolled and waiting for their turn to hunt; a national park, too. As far as cultural and historical signs are concerned, I'd just like to tax it out, because there is little time: the Bukovo monastery, immediately at the entry into the Municipality of Negotin, then the remains manifested by Blato and Dusica. I would like to remind myself that Negotin has one curiosity, which may be the oldest tree in the Balkans, which was accidentally found by mountaineeres of the Deli Jovan Mountain Society and which is now being examined. Rogljevska and Stubička pubs, an old church from 1803, which is a mausoleum character, with two epitaphs, which buried Hajduk Veljko and his younger brother Miljko. Then, the Church of the Holy Trinity with the iconostass of famous artist Steve Todorovic; the Krajina Museum, which has three continents: the home of Stevan Mokranjca, the Hajduk Veljak Museum and the archaeological setting. I want to remind you that Negotin gave away the personalities representing the old Yugoslavia and now Serbia. These are primarily Stevan Mokranjac, a prominent composer, horror director and conductor of the world's renome; then Hajduk Veljko, Gjorge Stanojevic. As for cultural events, in addition to numerous local Negotins, there is an international cultural event, which is the event "The Mokranjce's Days", with the participation of choirs from all member states of the former SFRY, with mandatory participation of Russian choirs. Then, there's a kinological exhibition of the highest rank. Brand not only Negotina, but all of Serbia are negatin wines, black and white. I remind you of the negatin game, the negatin incense, the white wine chardonna and risling, who have received over 20 international recognitions and medals, a paradise risling. I would like to remind you that the wineries of Negotin region are listed in the map of the wineries of Europe, that the climate conditions of this winery are similar to the most famous wineries of France. There's a Paradise brewery, there's rocks growing up in the Vratna, where every year scientists and expeditions from the world come to study this unique phenomenon. We have no objection and we are glad that Zaječar, as our neighbouring city, has gained the status of the city, but we believe that the legitimate representatives of this part of eastern Serbia would be Zajecar and Negotin at the same time, that together both of these cities would represent the real needs of the citizens of this region. If someone is to say that the proximity is a factor that makes it impossible, I ask how far is the distance between Nis and Leskovec, Smeder and Fireman, Belgrade and Panchev, Capca and Loznica, so we don't think this can be some limiting factor. I want to remind you that the transition from Negotin has taken a lot away. I don't want to criticize it now and create a political story out of it, but here's a chance for you, who took Negotina away a lot in the transition process, that you are now the same, because you have a moral obligation to the citizens of the Municipality of Negotin, repay these citizens by giving Negotin the city's status to the municipality. Unfortunately, I'm the only MP, and I'm sorry that I'm the only one from this district, that the Socialist Party of Serbia is the only one who has the strength... But this time I'm not just talking on behalf of a member of the SPS, I'm talking on behalf of all the citizens of the Negotin municipality. They are also citizens who vote for both DS and DSS, and for the SRS, for all parties. We represent the interests of all citizens. For the end, I'd just like to remind you. There's something we got from transition, and it's a new synthetic national minority, which you synthesized with certain people, just you from the ruling parties, so don't put these people in a corner right now. Let them, give them a chance to develop. I just want to warn you of one thing: some people who represent this national minority, who are self-called representatives, some of them, complain to international institutions and international entities, whom you also complained about while you were in power, about human rights violations in eastern Serbia. It is, in fact, that they want to show that there is a violation of human rights because they are dissatisfied with the social and economic status of eastern Serbia and people in eastern Serbia, not wanting to stress the fact that social, economic and all other conditions are equal for all citizens of the municipality, not only because it is the problem of a population in Negotin. So please, give them a chance, here, you have a chance to make this happen, because you will lose the votes you held in the last election. As far as the historical predisposition is concerned, I just want to remind you that Negotin was the center of Timo's serenity, the most significant trading place. The Happy Constitution allowed Negotina to be the centre of the Danube-Timotic Area, the seat of the Timo diocese. The Timoka Valley is an old road from Macedonia to Russia. The Negotina reading room has enabled the construction of Serbia's first school of apprenticeship, the institution of this school. Therefore, honourable MPs, Mr Minister, think twice before voting on these most important issues for people in eastern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15277	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Come on, if there's a member of 225 and 226, let's finish it now, and then let's do it, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, I really don't know what that means to you -- to end up in article 225, so let's do it. MPs work, no matter what member. I have now reported in accordance with Article 198 and Article 200. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In line with Article 198, I asked the parliamentary question of the minister for local self-government and state administration, I asked the police minister, I asked a question to the parliamentary group DS, and I asked the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic. So, a member of the 200th said, "The government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must respond orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply to the MP in writing within 8 days of the day when the question is asked. "The minister, who is present, not only did he not respond, which was his obligation, but he did not carry out that other obligation. So if he is unable to answer immediately, then he has to go out for a pay phone and say – for these and these reasons I am not able to answer immediately, but within eight days I will send you an answer to your question, in writing. So, once again, I ask what measures Minister Markovic will take, because it is obvious that the DS electoral list, for which submission as one of the necessary conditions, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, has been given by Boris Tadic, is a fruit of abuse. On August 10th 2006, Boris Tadic left with a team of RTS in Geteborg on August 12, 2006, which was also reported by news agencies, reported by foreign and domestic media, of course by Tina Bilankov, a journalist and Dejan Milanovic, a cameraman. Boris Tadic returned to Serbia on August 11th at 2.30pm, following talks and a meeting with the chairman of the Volvo Management Board, Leif Johansson. So, at 11:30, a Democratic Party list was submitted, and only three hours later Boris Tadic came to Serbia. So the question is how is Boris Tadic... It's the original document, it's not a photocopy, it's not faxed, it's not sent in any other way, it's the original signature of Boris Tadic. Here, I'll even give a copy of these documents to the minister, so he can take a look. Here, I'll give Mrs. Kolundji a word, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15279	I thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15280	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, yesterday the Committee on Local Self-Government submitted an amendment to Article 40. Let me quote. Article 40 states: "The election lists of political parties or other political organisations, i.e. a group of citizens who received at least 5% of the votes cast by the total number of voters who voted, as well as the electoral list of coalitions, i.e. a common electoral list of two or more political parties or other political organisations that receive at least 7% of the total number of voters who voted." An explanation – when the party coalition submits an electoral list or a joint electoral list to two or more political parties, or other political organisations, it is necessary that the electoral censorship be higher than when the parties submit their party lists individually, as well as when a group of citizens do so. It's all good, it's just the natural threshold has been lifted. This is a shame. Do you know what you're doing here? This means that in 50 municipalities in Serbia, the Serb list, none, cannot have a councilman. To 50 municipalities, Mr. Markovic! If the Committee for Local Self-Government doesn't pull this off, we're going into obstruction, you'll never finish this session. This is amazing to raise the census from 3 to 7. This can't go away. Gentlemen, in municipalities where there are 10% of the Serbian population, you can't run for the list because you need to verify the signatures and because you need to achieve 5% or 7%, because there wasn't enough 5. You two punish the Serb population in municipalities where there is a minority. Most kindly, please, this was proposed by the Democratic Party. The Socialist Party of Serbia will not allow DS to run a presidential campaign with the amendment. This is it. Do you remember any word for this? So, please, President, schedule a session of the Committee on Local Self-Government. Yesterday, the Socialist Party of Serbia did not participate in the Committee's work. Pull this amendment and let's keep working. Otherwise, there's no choice. What you've done here is a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15281	Mr. Baralich, let's get this straight, 'cause you're out of time. I won't do it. It's an amendment to the Committee, and if you think this blackmail will keep the MPs from working, here, please obstruct. So that's the Committee's amendment. The amendment will be made clear whether or not they will vote. Now anyone who doesn't like an amendment can come out and say - we'll be obstructing it by 2400 hours and you won't have laws. All right, I'm telling you, it's the Committee's amendment. If the Committee wants to withdraw the amendment, I don't mind, but don't threaten. There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15282	I'm not threatening you, I'm telling you what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15283	Thank you very much. So, first you went out to the Rules of Procedure and you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure, and then you addressed the amendment that was submitted to a law that is not at all the subject of debate at this moment. Mr. Baralich, your time is up. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Mr. Markovic, just to clarify this, therefore, you will look at the documentation given to you by Nemanja Sarovic. I'll say it in the microphone, and I'll use my right, since the minister has not been informed, after handing over the paperwork, he'll give you an answer, in the Rules of Procedure prescribed. Here you go, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15285	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on the amendment, that is, why Piroth should get the status of the city won't speak too much. We've given quite a reasonable and detailed explanation. The strategic goals are absolutely clear. That's what I was talking about in the opening statement as an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group. I would also ask the President of the National Assembly and Mr. Minister – how do you think we are having a debate on amendments when we haven't received an explanation from the Government why the amendments have been rejected? (President: It's just being shared. He'll be waiting for you when you get back to the MP's bench. Yes, but I was called to discuss my amendment. I am looking for an explanation why MPs are not allowed to learn about the reasons and reasons why the government has rejected certain amendments. How am I supposed to defend my amendment and attack the government's explanation when I don't have it in front of me? I'd like an answer to that question right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15286	Mr. Rangelovic, you've just shared the government's response, among other things, to your amendment, so that's my answer to your question. At the beginning of the session, I said, I don't know if you were there, that it's multiplying, because there's a lot of material, that you have a little patience. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15287	By the Rules of Procedure and by the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, you cannot answer parliamentary questions instead of the Minister, nor can you, in accordance with Article 200, go out and say that he is unable to answer my question. The question was very simple. So, the question is how is it possible that Boris Tadic left for Gothenburg on August 10th at 12:45, that on August 11th, the next day, he returned at 2.30 minutes and that the Democratic Party for Councillors in SO Barajevo was handed over at 11:30, three hours before Serbian President Boris Tadic arrived in Serbia. Clearly, this is about abuse, clearly it's about counterfeiting. It is also clear that DS representatives do not have an answer to this and that they are trying to push this issue under the carpet, and that this affair with the signing of the list from Geteborg, as well as the previous affairs of Thessaloniki and Bodrum, remains unresolved. If the minister is unable to answer this question, and neither is the head of Mrs Kolundzija's parliamentary group, I have another question for her: a list was submitted a few days ago, or a proposal for a presidential election was submitted, Boris Tadic, among other things; the Republic Election Commission declared his candidacy. One of the documents that were delivered was the assurance of citizenship. The award question for Serbian citizens is – when did Boris Tadic become a citizen of the Republic of Serbia? You probably think he's been doing it for many years, worked in state authorities, served as defence minister, elected president of the Republic. Look, this is the original document that we received through RIK, which says: "The municipal administration of the township of Stari Grad gives assurance that Boris (Ljub) Tadic, born on 15 January 1958 in Sarajevo, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is listed in the register of citizens of the Old Town, Belgrade, under current number 80418/29 on page 68, solution to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, No 204-1-1903, on 25 November 2003. "The elections for the National Assembly were held on 28 December 2003. Boris Tadic was not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia until that time, had no citizenship, had no idea that he was looking for it, but was put in an express procedure for just a few days, past the legal procedure, in a book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to allow him to run for MP in the elections held a month after he, I repeat, passed the legal procedure, was entered in the book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Tens of thousands of citizens wait two or three years to become citizens of Serbia. Boris Tadic succeeded in only two or three days. What's more important... Of course, in American democracy, which Boris Tadic is so pleased to be invited to, he could not even be a candidate for president, because there is one condition that anyone running for president of the United States must be born in America. First they did genocide on the indigenous people, and then they won't let... So, even though the American nation is artificial, even though it's made from colonists through that famous meelding pot, the beating of nations, the race in that American... Boris Tadic is a Serbian citizen for barely four years. More important issue than this, he now formally has the right to run, is a question whose minister Boris Tadic was. Boris Tadic was the Minister of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with BiH citizenship. He did not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. When we have this information in front of us, then it is clear why Boris Tadic worked so hard to destroy Serbia's military, or the SRJ Army -- because he was the minister of Ali Izetbegovic. Please, I'm asking the state authorities to take an emergency... And I'm asking that Hope Kolundji, head of the parliamentary group, respond to this. I ask the President of the Republic of Serbia for an answer from all ministers, asking Boris Tadic for an answer that he could have been SRJ, or SCG, where he was the defence minister, if he did not have Serbian citizenship. He was not the Serbian minister, as you represented him. You have deceived the citizens of Serbia, as you deceive them today. The citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, has acquired a legal procedure for just a few days, although tens of thousands of citizens have been waiting for years to enter the citizens' book. He acquired it the moment he was required to run for MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since he's so honest and says he can listen to anyone, why didn't he come out and say so – I'm Boris Tadic, the president of the DS, and I became a citizen of the Republic of Serbia the day before yesterday, and today choose me as a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15288	Mr. Sarovic, I think the amendment is related to the Catastrian municipality, the word "Museum" is added. If you've spoken to the Rules of Procedure, okay, you've asked two MPs questions, now let him answer. If you've spoken according to the amendment, then go back to the subject. Since you've asked parliamentary questions, please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15289	Mr. Dulic, I said I answered on both grounds. According to the amendment, I have 15 minutes to speak with these 10 or 20 seconds you took away from me, now it's only seven minutes and 30 seconds past.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15290	Let me introduce you: "In Article 20, the regular number of 15 is changed and it is said – Pirot, which is added to the settlements and catastrian municipalities, and the regular number of cities that are following is increasing by one." There, that's the amendment. All right, let's get it over with, I won't interrupt you anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15291	Mr. Dulic, you can't tell me. All right, let's get it over with. I find it offensive for you to read me the text of the amendment. So, I am a People's MP, and so are you, President of the National Assembly, and that makes you an obligation to hold meetings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and it doesn't give you the right to interrupt me when you have no right to do so. I didn't insult anyone, I didn't tell a lie, I didn't tell a lie. So this is a document that Boris Tadic personally handed over to RIK. If that's a fake, I agree, but come out and say it's a fake. Boris Tadic may not have become a Serbian citizen in November 25th 2003, but you cannot restrict me to the right in which I will explain the views of the SRS. So I reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in the way I think it is best that I explain the views of the SRS, and whether I persuaded the MPs to vote or not, we'll see when the day of the vote is up. I repeat once again, Mrs. Kolundjia, please pay attention. I showed both you and the general public to Serbia confidence in the citizenship of Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic was barely a Serbian citizen for six months the moment he first ran for president of the Republic of Serbia. I think that fact is extremely important and that it would be important for the citizens of Serbia when they evaluated who they would vote for. He was obliged to say -- until a few months ago I was a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I led the Ministry of Defence, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, destroying the Army of Serbia, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I started a campaign for a MP; when I needed confidence to meet the formal conditions, I misused the powers and, apart from the laws, I entered into the book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is extremely important, it is a document that is public, which is not difficult to verify, and it is extremely important to hear your opinion on it. You've been bombing us in the last few days with videos about how justistic Boris Tadic is, how truthful he is. Here, I'm proving reliably that's not the case. Well, you say Boris Tadic can listen to anyone. I don't know who he heard from over the last three years. I remember that man in Gucci who yelled "wow" by the throat to strangle him. So it's Boris Tadic. I don't remember any foreign languages. Here, I admit that in all foreign languages he takes orders, I admit it, but I don't know which foreign language he speaks. In what language did he convince Javier Solana, Sarkozy, Madeleine Albright and all your other friends who have been supporting him for years, in which language did he agree with them on Kosovo's declaration of independence? That's what the citizens of Serbia, Mrs. Kolundzija, are interested in, that's what we're interested in. So, come out and answer how is it possible that Boris Tadic was a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina by 25 November 2003, that he was then listed in the Serbian citizen's book by the MUP, and that he had previously served as minister? No one can be employed in a state body unless they have Serbian citizenship, neither as a porter nor as a driver. There's nowhere to be hired. How is it possible that Boris Tadic served as minister? How is it possible that no one asked him for citizenship? How could it not have occurred to him to say -- here, I have lived 20 years in Serbia, perhaps I could ask for Serbian citizenship. Was he so pleased with that citizenship of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? He didn't need it, he didn't feel it as his own. I have nothing against people from Bosnia and Herzegovina, my father is from Herzegovina. It was always a Serbian feather and nobody there 50 years ago, not 20 years ago, not a day or day has a dilemma whether it's a Serb or not. Serbia lies at the heart of people from there, and whoever can take Serbian citizenship from them. But we are looking for an answer as to why Boris Tadic served as defence minister and had no Serbian citizenship. I think it will be clearer for the citizens now why Boris Tadic broke up the Army of the Republic of Serbia, why our tanks went into old iron, why Serbia no longer has an army, why the military was destroyed as an institution, it is now becoming clearer. Because, gentlemen, Boris Tadic was a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time, because he cared about the interests of successors of Ali Izetbegovic, not the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15292	Here you go, regarding the answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15293	So, as for the parliamentary issue tabled by Mr. Sarovic, the ministry will try, to the extent that it is possible, because that question, as far as I understand it, has been addressed to a number of state officials, to answer that question. As far as this second part is concerned, I think it's already a pre-election campaign. I hope we get back to discussing the law, not commenting on the presidential candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15294	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15295	Of course we will return to the law, as Mr. Markovic demands, but first let us go back to those laws that Boris Tadic broke. Mrs. Kolundji is asking me if I believe what I'm saying or if it's a pre-election campaign. I really don't understand your question. What do I believe in? Do I believe in this citizenship, or do I believe in the belief of citizenship that the Old Town Municipality has betrayed Boris Tadic? Do you believe, Mrs. Kolundjia? This is the document I got from RIK. This is a document that Boris Tadic submitted as proof that he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Do you believe in this document? Here, say you don't believe it, but then Boris Tadic's candidacy for the president of the Republic of Serbia falls, then he can't be a candidate unless you believe it. I guess this is true. We have also carried out certain checks in institutions dealing with the assignment of citizenship. Look, there's a large number of tags missing here that are usually regularly found on the credentials of citizenship. Look, Mrs. Kolundjia, your assurances that you submitted when you were running for MP. I suppose that belief about citizenship has all the markings that are necessary. In the case of Boris Tadic, that is not the case. Why? Because he was registered under a special procedure, that is, by law, by abuse of authority, by abuse of public office was entered in the book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia at the time when it was necessary for him to run for MP. Before that, he did not think he needed it, did not want it, did not feel Serbia as his country, was a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, for the sake of the citizens, I will read this document again, an official document I received from RIK, which Boris Tadic submitted to RIK to allow him to run for president of the Republic of Serbia: the Republic of Serbia, based on Article 48(1). The Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, the municipal administration of the town of Stari Grad in Belgrade, issued a conviction: Boris (Ljubo) Tadic, born on 15 January 1958, Sarajevo - centre, is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, was registered in the register of citizens of the Old Town – Belgrade for a year – empty – under the current regular number of 80418/29 in the book of citizens, according to the resolution of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, no. 204-1-1903 days 25. 11. In 2003. Boris Tadic could not have been defence minister. Boris Tadic was not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I ask an answer to the question how could a foreign citizen, Boris Tadic, a BiH citizen, perform this function? (President: I thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Your question will be forwarded to the authorities. Just one more question. Why Boris Tadic did not inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and he was obliged, why he did not say – two days ago, past the law, I was enrolled in the book of citizens, today I am running for MP. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15296	Thank you. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15297	Thank you. Mr. President, I wanted to go through the Rules of Procedure. In 225 and 226, I would like to request an explanation from the Government, namely Mr. Minister Markovic, who is today a representative of the Government. I gave myself the moral right to report to the Rules of Procedure because we got the government's explanation two minutes ago, and my discussion of the amendment was 15-20 minutes ago. I want to point out to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and remind you that you did not respect the Rules of Procedure. We didn't get the government's explanation in time. Only for Serbian citizens to see how this parliament works, how the current coalition majority in parliament works. The same coalition majority, which makes it impossible for other coalitions, with their amendment proposal, from 5 per cent to 7 per cent, to come to a political stage. I'm going back to this. Here is a statement by the Government for refusing my amendment to Article 20, which I suggested that the Municipality of Negotin obtain city status, says this: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Municipality of Negotin does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 17. It's a bill of law. "Now I'm going to read you article 17. The bill, not because you don't know, I suppose you do, but that the citizens of the municipality of Negotin and the citizens of Serbia hear what the argument is and whether it's an explanation or not. This is a purely formal explanation, as long as you don't accept the amendment. Article 17 reads: "The city is a territorial unit governed by this law, which represents an economic, administrative, geographical and cultural centre of the wider area and has more than 100,000 inhabitants. "Please stop this time because I quote the law. "Extremely, when there are specific economic, geographical or historical reasons, it can be determined that the city and the territorial unit that has less than 100,000 inhabitants, if it meets all other criteria foreseen by law. The territory for which the city is educated represents a natural geographical continent, an economically connected space that has built communication between inhabited cities and the city's headquarters as a gravity centre. "I pray to Mr. Minister, who is not present and I do not know who will answer me, if we already respect the Rules of Procedure, if we should respect that Mr. Minister should be here today, the amendment has been rejected, now needs to come out and say what is not good in this Article 17. Is the 100,000 population criterion respected for other cities? I'm telling you, he's not in line with this criterion. I don't see why the Contin municipality is being discriminated against. I'm not going to say which cities don't have 100,000 people, because I really don't mind, I'm glad and I congratulate them, all the cities in Serbia who think they should have the status of the city and get the status of the city. (President: I thank you. I apologize, Mrs. Kolundjia, and I will answer to you, there are no criteria. You wrote them just to give some to others and not to others, because it is obvious that the criterion of this law relating to 100,000 inhabitants is not respected. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. President. (President: You've been talking for 15 minutes about this amendment, you've told your reasons. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15298	Please, Doctor, I initially informed the National Assembly that they were coming. We started working, no one was causing a problem. Government opinion divided, you spoke for 15 minutes, now you've spoken for four minutes, let's be correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15299	I've checked in with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. I respect you and ask you to respect both the dignity of the National Assembly and my dignity as a People's MP and to allow me to say, for the Rules of Procedure has allowed me to refuse the time for which I quote the Rules of Procedure or the Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15300	Thank you, Doctor. I respect the dignity of the National Assembly, sometimes more than I should. Mr. Michaelovich, first we'll do a little work, you'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stevic, I know, as you often answer, I remember the name. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Elvira Kovač has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Zvonimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15301	Your Honor, Mr. President, the presidency, Mr. Minister, for my absence, I can't say hello, first of all, I would like to explain some things, Members of Parliament know very well, dear citizens, as well as you, Mr. President. As you know, two days ago, we had a united principle debate on four very important laws -- a law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, a law on local self-government, a bill on local elections and the capital. We were all here ten hours ago today, Mr. President, I hope you can hear me and follow me, and that's when you said we'd get the opinion of the government and the opinion of the parent board. You see these guys here are working so fast, they're handing out material. After almost 90 minutes of work, only ten minutes ago came the government's opinion on this bill that we're talking about, and it's already been 10 amendments. On the other hand, the opinion of the next parent board of law, as we do, should soon start talking about the law on local self-government, has not yet arrived. Let's get to the bottom of what material we have, which we don't. As for the amendments submitted together by the SVM MPs, I just received the answer. I think it's pointless that according to congregation cults, the stories that the amendments have been accepted, which are not, how many there are, how accepted, how we're going to work. I'd like to point out that we really don't want to be obstructing, and now I'm going to do a little commendation on the work... Of course, we all realize that it is very important to meet the deadlines prescribed by the Constitutional Law and that we will all really try to end the search and vote by the end of today. But you can't take away the right that belongs to the MPs of the opposition, which is to explain their amendments and their proposals for amending the law. I'd like first to commend Mr. Minister, I'm sorry he's not in the O.R., which he's finally agreed with almost all the parliamentary groups on important matters. We see that the Assembly is doing better now, and we all find it pointless that once very high-quality amendments are being rejected just because they come from the opposition MPs. The amendment reads in Article 20. The bill in paragraph 1 in point 4 after the word "Michille" in columns "Inhabited Place" and "Katastar Municipality" is added to the word "Museum". Since I came from Mihajlova, which belongs to the Grain County, I would like to explain to those citizens who may not know that Mužlja is a large populated place that currently has more than ten thousand inhabitants. The problem is that now the Male makes up one of the suburban parts of Zrenjanin and nowhere does the Mužlja exist as a inhabited place. We believe that the big problem is that one place that has such a large population in the municipality of Zrenjanin does not exist separately. The purpose of the amendments together submitted by SVM MPs is for Mužlja to have the status of a populated place. Since Mužlja has its own geographical boundaries and makes one clear continent, we believe that there would be no legal obstacle to the fact that Mužlja really becomes a inhabited place. I think everyone living in Mužlje would be happy if they could finally put on a board and get their place named and write in Serbian and Hungarian. As I said at the outset, we would not want to obstruct and thank some of our amendments have passed, but of course we will use our right to talk about the amendments that we consider important, which, unfortunately, the government had no hearing. At the end of my presentation, I would also like to say this, to point out to Mr. President that there is a 103 position in the Rules of Procedure where it says that the speaker should only talk about the subject on the agenda. Mr. President, when we talk about the amendment or the agenda points, you're the one who runs this session and don't really let the National Assembly... It's clear to all of us that there's a pre-election campaign in progress, but if we agreed that the National Assembly would not be a circus, but that we're really working to end the discussion today in particular... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15302	I'm asking you to understand one thing. Thus, Article 139 defines that the National Assembly can also work without the Government’s opinion when it comes to an emergency procedure. I introduced it, and until now, every time, by law, it says by emergency procedure, you had the government's opinion at 10 o'clock. So this morning I asked you to have just a little bit of understanding, because it's multiplying, we can't get it all apart, because it's Saturday and it was just a request. So, as it has been so far, whatever law it is you'll have the government's opinion here at 10 o'clock or I won't start a session. I'm asking you to have a little bit of understanding right now. It's here, you've got everything in front of you now, and we can discuss it. Thank you for understanding, but I really said that at 10:00 this morning. Mr. Stevic's giving up. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposings Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the proposal for a law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs Vlatko Ratković, Srdjan Šin, Vidoje Jovanovic, Riza Halimi, Milena Stanković, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Miljević Rangelović, Miletić Mihajlović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanović, Zvonimir Stević, Zoran Krasić, Aleksandar Martinović and Vjerica Radet, as well as the Committee for Local Self-Government. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Local Self-Government and the Legislative Committee. At a session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic withdrew the amendment to Article 21. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Local Self-Government is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 20. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle, I have made a series of objections to the law on local self-government, and now I would like to try to make something concrete about this issue. It's about the authorities of the municipality, which we expected would move forward in the direction of decentralisation. I have already found that it is almost the same position, and I am still behind it, and that, in addition to basic education, it should be allowed to be the competence of local self-government and, of course, the problem of implementing constitutional and legal standards on the application of language and letters of minorities. This should all be supported on the financial side if we really want this legal provision to be implemented in practice. This is because of the lack of financial resources in municipalities, in most cases only work in Serbian. In doing so, I do not mean congregation materials, but at all all solutions and documents issued by local self-government – they are only published in Serbian, although the law guarantees bilingualism and application of language and minority letters. We also have a political moment with the authorities at municipal level, in courts and in the police, so that this legal provision is not implemented in practice. I think the main problem, however, is to finance that extra, so to speak, work that each organization has, whether it's state-owned, whether it's an organisation of local self-government, if it wants to complete this legal provision. In order for this legal provision to be implemented in practice, the way in which additional work and municipal administrations are financed must be resolved, as well as all state authorities. Now, we have a situation to guarantee, and in practice it's not being implemented. It's the meaning of the amendment, and I think this was an opportunity for this issue to be resolved when this law was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15304	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Let me just read about one amendment that we've been through. It's not completely read, so let me read it again, I apologize. The Committee on Local Self-Government is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 20. At the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 20 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15305	LSV MPs believe that the number of scheduled council members per municipality, as well as city councils, is extremely high. So we suggested that in the congregations the municipalities be between 11 and 61 council members. We believe that for a certain number of inhabitants, it is something that is satisfactory. We believe that in municipalities in Serbia, congregations are very large. There are tens of thousands of residents who now have, under the applicable law, 30 council members, and I will remind you that numerous capitals around Europe have a congregation of twenty or thirty council members. We believe that the number of council members per congregation of municipalities (and in one of the next amendments we are talking about also city congregations) is now large and needs to be reduced, as we propose by this amendment. I call on the MPs to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15306	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15307	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The bill of law and practically this amendment of ours follows those provisions. It's about the possibility of transferring jurisdiction. On the one hand, the law provides that the Republic can transfer certain responsibilities to local self-government units and that the Autonomous Province can do the same. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities has defined that part of the powers in the fields of education and culture, public information and official use of language and letter states can be entrusted to national councils. In the past, the Republic has, unfortunately, in a very small number of cases used this right and this possibility. As far as autonomous provinces are concerned, the autonomous province has made major steps in this direction and passed a lot of authority on to national councils. As far as the local self-government unit is concerned, these are the units of local self-government in a large number of cases because of this definition in the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, according to which the state can transfer powers, there is a certain fluctuation in the units of local self-government whether, under this law, the unit of local self-government falls under this concept of state. We have therefore proposed an amendment to allow units of local self-government to transfer competences to national councils in areas of education, culture, official use of languages and letters and information. We think that this would be absolutely logical and that it would only be a harmonisation, i.e. a precision of those provisions that the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities contains. We simply do not understand why this amendment could not be accepted. It explains that it is not accepted because it will be regulated by the law on the competences of national councils. This issue has been regulated by the National Minorities Act, but it's not properly regulated enough. That's why we thought it would be a good idea to include this provision in the Law on Local Self-Government. On the other hand, this amendment contains one provision under which it would be mandatory to obtain the opinion of local self-government in the discharge or appointment of the head of the district police administration. If the government had done a comparative analysis of what countries this jurisdiction has in local self-government would have seen that Serbia is safe among the rare exceptions in which this right of local self-government does not enjoy. Simply, we feel that it would be normal for the authorities of the congregations and the congregations of cities to ask themselves in this procedure. It is not good, and in many cases, that the chiefs of police administrations are appointed here in Belgrade, without any consultation with local self-government authorities, which the internal affairs authorities have to co-operate with later. I have information that there was an initiative by a task force that was working on this law to make a step in this direction, however, it is not strange at all, just as the MUP opposed this. Unfortunately, this step remains for some future. On the other hand, one of the most important flows in many countries of the Council of Europe is that these chiefs of the police administrations also have an obligation to report local self-government units to their work, to submit a report, to appear before the committees. Unfortunately, this is not happening in Serbia either. For all these reasons, we stand at the point of view that it would be really good to accept this amendment. Of course, we understand this resistance by the MUP, so we have to wait a while until this current of the Council of Europe is taken over by the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15308	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 33. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Vidoje Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 37th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15309	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we intended to correct this amendment by correcting one lack of all the laws under which only the committees enjoy immunity, and those people who are appointed or appointed, or elected to some working bodies of local self-government units, if they are not committees, do not enjoy this immunity. Unfortunately, in some cases, proceedings against these persons are being initiated because of their opinion at the working-body sessions and because of their vote. I think it's unfair for these people and I don't understand the reason why the different positions of those members of the congregation working bodies that are committees and those who aren't involved in the same decision-making procedures. We think it would be good to accept this amendment, so that, in future, against those people who are not committees who work in various congregation bodies, it would not be possible to initiate judicial proceedings because of their opinion. It is completely unclear from the reasons why this amendment could not be accepted. I think that would be completely natural. Unfortunately, the regulation of this issue remains for some time to come, which is not good, because this essence of the law would in no way change and certainly be able to warn some situations in which in practice many members of these working bodies come. Unfortunately, the government doesn't seem ready to take this step either at this point, so we have the hope that this issue will still be settled in some future law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15310	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say on this amendment that the amendment was aimed at changing this member in terms of defining the way the president was elected, because the bill did not regulate this issue, so that in practice there could be various improvisations. Of course, the goal was achieved because the same amendment was submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov, Mr Marton and Mr Radovanovic. It's about the next one. At the agreement and agreement on what should be accepted or rejected during the preparation of the session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, it was concluded that the amendments that were submitted by the gentleman and the amendments I submitted on behalf of the SPS were practically the same. That's not controversial. I think that the text that I have proposed is slightly different, that it is better and better, and it reads, "The president of the Assembly is elected from the council, on the proposal of at least one third of the committees, on a four-year basis, by a secret vote, by a majority of the total number of council members of the municipality." The amendment, which achieves the same goal, which was tabled by a group of MPs that I mentioned earlier, reads: "The president of the assembly, on a proposal of at least 1/3 of the council, is elected from the committee, on a four-year basis, by a secret vote, by a majority vote of the total number of council members." So, same meaning, same goal. When a selection of what is accepted, what is rejected, although a correct agreement has been reached in preparation for the Committee's session to be corrected, and I have agreed to make an amendment as the amendment proposed by fellow Members and to establish that the amendment in the same text has been accepted, means, Alexander Jerkov, Alexander Marton and Radovan Radovanovic and, on behalf of the SPS, my amendment... That's the deal, and I see that deal is not respected. I need some finesse to comment on. Firstly, I do not think that fractions are used in the Constitution when the two-thirds majority or two-thirds of MPs vote for the adoption of the Constitution, the constitutional law, or confirms it, declares it, etc., or one-third in some other members, but uses words. Next, I think we can do it here, but it's better to say, "it's coming out of the councilman's ranks," not "the councilman's order." Why? Because in grammar there's a rule of composing declines, composing storks, getting numbers together. It's a congregation. Therefore, if one word is used in one, then another word that is related to it also goes into one, or if one is in the plural and the other goes in the plural. Therefore, it is more correct to say – from the ranks of the committee. So, it's just that that fact is being found out. There doesn't seem to be a position for a lecturer who sees, sees whether language is right or not in these bill proposals that come before the National Assembly and the People's MPs, so we MPs sometimes have to deal with these details here. I can conclude that the MPs of the SPS may not be very "like" at times; their amendments that achieve the same goal, which may even be in the text and better, are not accepted, eliminated, may be "stupid" or something missing. In any case, the Socialist Party of Serbia believes it has constructively participated in the adoption of these laws, even when it comes to this member. But I don't think this really is correct after talking to the Minister for Local Self-Government and the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Palalic, about the need to accept this amendment in the same text, so, gentlemen and my amendment on behalf of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15312	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Vidoje Jovanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Alexander Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15313	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment to Article 45. Proposal for a law on local self-government. In the principle debate, I said, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that this set of laws is acceptable to the SRS, that the essential elements of this law are what we have drawn out in our programme and what we have been fighting for 15-16 years. We have submitted a small number of amendments, 12 total, and the government, or resolution minister yesterday, did not accept three or four amendments to the SRS Committee of Local Self-Government. I will comment on why we submitted these amendments, what we wanted with these amendments and the government's explanation why the amendments were not accepted. In Article 45, Article 2 provides that candidates... Otherwise, the whole section refers to the executive bodies of the municipality, i.e. the selection of executive bodies. The 2nd position states that candidates for members of the municipal council are proposing a candidate for the president of the municipality. Somehow, it seemed to us that it wasn't the happiest solution for the candidate to propose a candidate. In that sense, counterpart Krasic submitted the amendment. We suggested that candidates for members of the municipal council be proposed by the president of the municipality. What does that mean? This would mean selecting the president of the municipality at one session and electing members of the municipal council at the next session, on his proposal. Since this could be the fact that the local parliament and the authorities of the municipality are in place, this could happen all on the same day, to take a certain break, in agreement with the parties, that is, on a proposal by the majority in the municipality. This job could end on the same day, but not at the same time. Among other things, why have we submitted this amendment? Because we had a problem in the Belgrade City Assembly. You are all familiar with this problem, and the public of Serbia, when at the same session, contrary to the current, still positive Law on Local Self-Government (if the law had been like this then it would not have been the opposite of the law), elected president of the assembly and president of the municipality. The president of the assembly at the same session resigned, his deputy also. It was, you remember, that famous transge-frange combination between DS and DSS because the Democratic Party did not allow the DSS to have any insight into finance and budget spending, which was exclusively under the hands of the DS in Belgrade and not a single minute, not a day, the Democratic Party of Serbia and its president, who, by law, was supposed to be acting as mayor... Then they made that combination, they switched. All of this ended in the same session, without the possibility that the committees of other committee groups and other parties could submit their proposal for a candidate for the president of the municipality and for his deputy. You remember that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have been talking here for days and that in the end, we have forced Resolute Minister Milan Markovic to, in accordance with Article 111 of the Positive Law on Local Self-Government, react also on the basis of his reaction, or opinion, a new session was held in the Belgrade City Assembly of Belgrade, which was held only then in accordance with the law. This was one of the reasons why we thought that this law needed very clearly to specify how members of the municipal council were elected. The government didn't accept that. This opinion was written by the Government yesterday we heard on the Committee on Local Self-Government and by Minister Milan Markovic, but here, I will introduce you to this: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the election of the president, deputy president and members of the municipal council is being held at the same time. The president of the municipality is also the president of the municipal council, i.e. the body whose members he proposes. "This second sentence is certainly not controversial. It stands in the law and it is clear, but it is not acceptable that the amendment is not accepted because the election of the president of the municipality, deputy president and members is done at the same time. We simply don't think it's technically feasible, and it sounds like a ruse when the law says that candidates for members of the municipal council are proposing a candidate for the president of the municipality. I ask the MPs, given that we had no understanding of either the Minister or the Government for this amendment, that in the day of voting they would consider and vote in favour of this amendment. It is true that this amendment does not essentially affect the quality that the law normally has, but we think it would be good for this amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15314	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15315	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, on the basis of members 145 and 163, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56. Article 56(1) reads: "The head of the municipal administration, i.e. the administration of certain areas, sets the municipal council higher, on the basis of a public ad, for five years. "My proposal to amend this Article, paragraph 1, is the following -- after the word "sets the municipal council" the words "on the proposal of the president of the municipality, with the consent of the assembly of the municipality", and the words "based on a public ad" are deleted, and the word "five" is replaced by "four". The government's argument is that it does not accept this amendment because of the professionalisation and depolitisation of the mayor of the municipal administration. I think this government's argument is kind of unacceptable. The head of the administration is a very important person who, to the greatest extent, is a direct associate in the affairs of the municipal administration, in relation to the powers given by this law to the president of the municipality. I think it makes sense for the president of the municipality to propose that solution. Why can't I accept that for reasons of depolitisation and professionalization, it's through a public ad? If the president of the municipality is the president of the municipal council, if we have a deputy and is proposed by the president, on the one hand, members of the municipal council are proposed by the president of the municipality and elected by the assembly, then it is logical to propose the head of the administration as well. For these reasons, and if the Head of Administration is appointed on the basis of a public competition, it is normal for the President to have a decisive word in terms of selecting the Head of Administration. For these reasons, I find this government's argument unacceptable. I think the government could accept, or the minister could accept this amendment. But about that then, we'll see. This is a special problem in small areas. You will see that the small environments, in addition to this way of setting up the chief of administration through a public competition, will surely have problems, because the small environments do not have enough personnel. They'll have, and they've had, trouble setting up the chief of staff. The Head of Administration may be appointed a person who has graduated from law school, has passed a professional exam and at least five years of experience. I think the practice has shown that the small environments don't have enough personnel; there was even a chief of staff who had been appointed, and they didn't finish law school. I am taking the opportunity, given this Law on Local Self-Government, to the jurisdiction of the municipalities, or the assembly of municipalities, and since we withdrew a number of discussions on amendments, when it comes to free division of actions, that is, in the case of the Privatisation Act, to mention the letter of the Municipal Committee of the Small Zvornik and one part of the citizens of Little Zvornik, which concerns the privatisation of the UTP "Pputnik". I'd like to ask a few questions, because these citizens are asking for an answer, i.e. the municipal board of the SPS. UTP Traveler is privatized. After privatisation, due to unfulfilled obligations by whoever bought this company, there was an end to the contract and the Traveler was returned to the Action Fund. Meanwhile, as the company returned to the responsibility of the Action Fund, there was some formation of an eight-member board, and there were about 45 workers left in it. The same board members hired a lawyer and sued the UTP "Podrinje" during the time they spent as members and president of the board of directors, and did nothing and made a fee of 3,133,033 dinars, with interest, counting the costs of lawyers; 45 workers received 4.569,783 dinars. Citizens are wondering what this is all about, what the Action Fund has taken for the sake of hoarding social property in the sense that eight people on the board of directors, who have sued their own company, and someone put them on the board of directors, take 3.143,000 and 45 workers to take 4.569,783 dinars. All of this is directed by Sekulić Stoimira, who is the chairman of the board of directors; he was in the Democratic Party, then in the Peasant Party, and this policy sells UTP "The Traveler" supported earlier politics. Now, this is the way and the relationship is supported, the Group of Citizens of the Little Zvornik, whose ranks are the president of the assembly. That's why these people are asking me, as MPs, to ask a few questions and ask the government and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for answers. Who's appointed UTP's board of directors when he's already in charge of the Action Fund? What is the legal basis, as a second question, for such high fees? Did he react to this innion of social property or will he react to the Action Fund? The fourth question - will the Little Zvornik Assembly itself launch this issue at the Action Fund because of this relationship and this kind of social property inn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15316	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, MP Milojub Albianic, vice-president of the assembly, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15317	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the amendment by MP Vido Jovanovic for the following reason. When I was in the region of Lower Raina, I asked people – how does local self-government work with you in France? They replied that in France, the president of the municipality is elected, the council is elected, that the president of the municipality can bring in three professional associates (that is, all about politics - three professional associates) and that the other seats are on the basis of the competition, based on the professional qualities of the people who are competing there. If it is noted that one of the people admitted to these professional, responsible jobs is working politically in favour of any political party, it is being replaced, with a clause that can no longer be employed in such a job. The moment we opened up here the possibility that for a particular place, a very important municipal place, a competition was opened and quality people were reported, professionally and responsibly doing their job, MP Vidoje Jovanovic appeared to say it was not good. Then the question arises what is the interest of the one who sets out the amendment of another nature. So it's an interest to control this man and to have that man under direct orders from the president of the municipality. And what does that mean? Let me give you an example. The village of Vrhpolje, the birthplace of Vidoj Jovanovic, who is the bearer of the amendment; therefore, the municipality, or whoever, gives the man a place to rent, to make a captage, something that is the place where the gravel from the Drina is brought. So, the man's got the gravel, he's got the gravel and he's bringing it in. It would be all right if this property wasn't a family property that, according to the law on denationalisation that we intend to adopt, should be returned. The president of the municipality, what, hurried to give it to his friends more or less for a longer period of time; so he who will take tomorrow's right to that property not only can't get it, to be returned to him, but it's not bad for him to have trucks around the yard, two meters away, and to make his life impossible there. My people, that's not the end of it. The president of the municipality, along with the local community in Vrhpolje, provides another possibility for these local pebbles, which is to renovate the local community building (I would like to see if they have an adequate building permit to do so) to expand it and build a cafe and nightclub. But it's across the street from the man I'm talking about, so the man is now locked up on two sides. He's locked up on two sides -- not only can't he live day and day because of that gravel and processing, but he can't live there at night either. Now the key question that I'm going back to is, what is the interest of the president of the municipality that the mayor of the municipal administration is not elected to the competition? Are these the things I was just talking about? Are these things to disrupt people's normal lives, say, in the Supreme? If you explain that to me, I'll vote for your amendment. If you can grant me what I've told you, how normal it is in the world, then I will vote for your amendment. But your amendment hides something in itself that is not acceptable, and it is not acceptable to do what is done today in the municipality of Love, and for that you are responsible. You can't propose a amendment like this here, because you're disrupting the normal lives of people in Vrhpolje and Love, and that's why you're taking responsibility. You're responsible and the citizens will know that in the next election you'll be estimating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15318	Thank you. Right on line, counterpart Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15319	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very strange that the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia talks like this. First, he talks with an absolute ignorance. It's a fundamental legal issue that has nothing to do with the president of the municipality. I filed an amendment here to Article 56, the government rejected it, gave a legal explanation for why. Believe that the best associates in the municipality should be the head of the administration and the president of the municipality under the new law that provides for the authorities in the municipality, the assembly of the municipality, the president as an executive body, the municipal council. I guess that should do one whole, in terms of all the affairs, tasks and responsibilities given to local self-government. I made a proposal here, and I said that nothing would change whether it would be a public competition if it was already decided by the municipal council, and the president of the municipal council is the president of the municipality and members of the municipal council. I also said, with the consent of the congregation, it means a wide circle of people. Well, who will choose this management chief -- the future coalition, of course, will propose. Are you saying, Vice President, that this won't be a political issue? I'm sure it'll be a political question. That's what you do, and much worse than we've done before. Don't act like one. Some basic things you don't know. You may know the math, but you don't know the law. You weren't and don't attack me. Why? When it comes to assets that are subject to sale, you should ask the Privatisation Agency and the Center for Banking, go to New Belgrade to the shelter facility and ask who sold the property. We put up a ban and that property was sold, the money was blocked in the account and the cooperative workers couldn't get that money. You're making a terrible lie here, you don't know things. So leave, the answer to that question will be given to you at the Privatisation Agency, at the bankruptcy center, who posted the bankruptcy manager who sold that property at the bar, maybe, I won't argue, and maybe so. The municipality, come check it out, filed a complaint and issued a ban on selling social property and can't do it in a catastro just because we asked for it. What you think is private... And I want every man to have his peace... I'd like to finish. (President: here you go. ) The president of the municipality has nothing to do with it; the public defender reacted, the republican lawyer reacted and the sale of the property is still under question. You tell lies, in a way, and incomplete information in this congregation. Secondly, the property of the local community is subject to bidding. Three interested persons appeared at the auction when it came to the House of Culture. The home of culture is separated from the object you speak of 15-20 meters. Between these two facilities passes the M19 highway. What are you talking about? A legal procedure has been implemented. You're bringing up some lies here. I responsibly claim that all activities in the case of the sale of assets that are subject to the law that will be passed, when it comes to the Act of Denationalisation... But it wasn't the community that did it, she put a ban on it. Secondly, the procedure was conducted, and whoever offered the best price got that space. I don't think you have reason to dispute something that's legal, legitimate, done right because of someone's peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15320	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15321	Mr. Jovanovic, so you're asking me to be open to the end. Article 104, because Mr Jovanovic has endangered not only my dignity but also the dignity of the National Assembly using words that are not suitable for this home, he said I was lying. Well, it won't work like that. Let's see, the family house in Vrhpolje that we're talking about here is the house of Professor Dr. Ljubomir Protic, professor of the Faculty of Mathematics in Belgrade. It's his father-in-law, it's his grandfather's, and you're now making it impossible for him to come to live in the Vrhpolje, to find peace for rest next to Drina, as it is appropriate. How do you work with other people when you work like this with a university professor? That's what I'm asking you. So, do you have anything in front of your eyes? Do you know the family background of Professor Ljubomir Protic? Do you even know what they're called the Optics, what their last name came in? From the prot. You're trying to disable, to mess up everything that's fair, which is fair, which is primal in our people. You don't have to do that. It's an honor. So, Mr. Baralic, I'm not talking to your political party at all, except Vido Jovanovic. You're telling me that you didn't let those local gravelmen in the local community (so whose local community, whether it's the municipal authority or what it is) make coffee and nightclubs, so they can't even live there at night. You, as president of the municipality, should have stopped one thing and another. You need shame to be what you're doing. But that's not enough for you, you've proposed an amendment so you can continue to do something like that. We won't let you do that, because you won't be chosen. You came here to tell me something, so you see, you solve the issue of conflict of interest first and foremost. I'm asking you personally, do you, as president of the municipality, have a conflict of interest with the function of the MP? Are you a rare specimen here in the Assembly? How is it that only you here in the congregation are allowed to do so, i.e. You don't stick to the letter of the law, the law means nothing to you. And on this case, you can see how you step on it in the top of it. You can't do that. You won't be able to do that, there are republican organs that will stop you from doing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15322	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15323	Mr. Vice-President Albianic, I wonder if the vice-president of the Republika Srpska Assembly should go out for a pay phone like this and, in accordance with fundamental rights, ask a question he does not know enough about. I won't answer again. As for, once again, the president of the municipality, whether it's my name or someone else's name, whether it's Love or another environment, you know very well that the social property, or the land that's nationalized, is now a state, not a municipality. We didn't get any property until today, and we don't know what you're talking about. As far as it's been sold to these people who exploit the gravel, go away, I'm telling you one more time, to the Agency (if you don't know, I'll take you to show you where the facility is) and to the Bank Center, to the man who's a bankruptcy manager and was appointed by the government agency. Don't overwork things here. On the other hand, when it comes to the House of Culture, a man was given a bid as the most favourable bidder when it comes to the price, there is credible documentation about it. Mr. Albianic, I've been president for eight years. You come to Love to act politically, and you will see how you will go; your G17 plus in Love has no councilor and will never have one. You represent him the way you represent him at this pay phone. As for the conflict of interest, I have one more thing to tell you. I received assurance from the Republic Election Commission appointed by the Assembly and published in the Official Messenger in December 2006 that it was not a conflict of interest. The moment the court decides it's a conflict of interest, I'll define myself what I'm going to be, whether I'm going to be an MP or a president of the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15324	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milojub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15325	In accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, for your dignity, for all of you here in the Assembly. Mr Jovanovic, the first thing, did not respect the solution of the former Minister of State Administration and local self-government in the previous term, and therefore you should have been removed because you locked up in the seal drawer, as well as the office, and made a joke from the Municipality of Ljubovija. You know that well. Then the question arises what solutions have you made after the Minister's letter? It's a serious legal question. As far as conflict of interest is concerned, take care, it's your decision that you want to be both the president of the municipality and the MP. I can assure you that we in the G17 plus parliamentary group initially had two presidents of the municipalities, who resigned the moment they received a letter from the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. You don't have that fundamental respect for the law, to say - I don't want to be in conflict of interest, I'm going to do one function. You're trying from the position of MP and president of the municipality to violate the law in the municipality of Love. That, I promise, won't work. As for the election, because of all the things you have done in the previous term, and the public and citizens of Love will also be familiar with what you are doing in the Vrhpolje and other places of the Municipality of Ljubovije, not that you will be removed, you will fly away, Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15326	Mr. Albianic, please take your place here. Let's get one of the Rules of Procedure on the phone, and let's keep working. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vasiljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 104, and I want to defend the dignity of this assembly, unfortunately, from the Vice President of the Assembly. He took a role here so he could also be the President of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court Judges and the Supreme Interpreter of Law in this country, to say whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not. Gentlemen, if anyone is in conflict of interest, that is the sole jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. Why, Mr. Albianic, did you fail to allow the Constitutional Court to be formed 6 months ago, or 10 months ago, so it would have been decided whether Mr. Vidoje Jovanovic was in conflict of interest or not? In the SPS parliamentary group, we have found that he is not in conflict of interest and until there is a different opinion he will be an MP. As for whether he will be elected president of the Municipality of Ljubovija, he was elected by the direct votes of the citizens. Ask him how many percent he got. You won't be able to act that way and judge it. As far as his amendment is concerned, whether he is in accordance with the law or not, that's what the Legislative Committee said, and whether he's politically acceptable, that's what you're going to say here, too. I'd like to remind you of a law on civil servants... Will you say, Mr Albianic, of the 17-18 ministerial assistants Mladjan Dinkic chose on the basis of the competition, and according to logic, things and ministerial assistants are no longer political functions, but civil servants. Come out and tell us how many were selected by competition and that they are not members of G17 plus. Cut me up here, Serbian citizens, if all 17 are not members of G17 plus. Don't talk from the scene now. It proves another aspect of your unculture and uneducated. You can put a title in front of the name you want, you're an uncultured man, and you're particularly abusers of the office of Vice President of the Assembly. I think you'd really have to stop dealing with MPs this way, especially SPS MPs. I'm just the first to get up to answer your questions, and if we all get up, you and your party are not going to have any use for this, but you're going to have a lot of damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15328	According to the amendment, MP Milisav Petronijevic reported. Mr. Petronievich, you still have seven minutes on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment our friend Vidoje Jovanovic submitted to the proposal for a law on local self-government. I don't want to take the time, even though I'd have a lot of comments. I see, Mr. President, that you were frowning when Zeljko Vasiljevic said that he was rudely acting as vice president of the Assembly... And the president's out? They're all gone, and the president, and this vice president, they're all gone. And it's time for them to leave. So, speaking of which... So what's ugly about it, if it's true, and it is true... I'll end up with a message -- dear Comrade Vidoje Jovanovic, if this is your competition in Ljubovija, you'll be the president of the Ljubovija municipality for a hundred years. The point here is that everyone has the right to a political position and that's legitimate. Someone has the right to advocate deprofessionalization, someone for professionalization; someone has the right to advocate depolitisation, and someone for politicization, everything is legitimate. It is important here to clarify this story of the ruling majority that the concept of professionalisation and depoliticalism is something that is best. It's just a naked story. The reason I came out was exactly that. It is better to say, whoever receives power, let him put everything in place; when someone else comes, let the other one set it all up. This is how to deceive the public of Serbia that we are for some great democracy through depoliticalisation, professionalisation, without doing so at Serbia's level, that's funny. Please form how power was formed in Serbia, as a feud, the ministry one, one party and all by vertical such, everything belongs to that party. We remember the story of the Civil Service Act here, when the big bells were also talking about how to introduce depolitisation, professionalization, competitions, etc. When the government entered office of the first law she had offered to the Assembly, instead of the Constitutional Court, it was about delaying its application because it did not suit them. They've already had a lot of competitions, people have participated in the competition, but it's not appropriate for them to choose those who answered. What's the matter? Of course, by the will of the ruling majority, the congregation has adopted that it is not now in force while they are in power, but will apply when others come to power. This is the scam, the citizens of Serbia -- it refers, they say, to only the others, and when we are in power, it does not apply to us. Remember, the State Officials Act has been amended and powerful state secretaries have been appointed and there are now more secretary of state than ministerial assistants, and the assistant minister no longer even God knows how many. So the point was to say honestly, and that's a legitimate attitude, we think, where there's a majority of you, here you go, you're responsible for the functioning of that community, you leave yours, and when there's someone else, it's your right now. Let's not talk about how depoliticization and professionalization is something great, nice, but whenever it takes us to hook it up, it doesn't work, because we're gonna move it to the next election. Once again, I want to warn the public, not the MPs of the National Assembly, about the amendment of the Committee on Local Self-Government, which literally prevents Serbs in all mixed environments where they are minority to even enter the municipality. We will also remind the Assembly and the public, until we face each other in a serious debate, which means a natural threshold. At the state level, it's perfectly normal and it's something OK, but at the level of local self-government, national minorities are majority, and there are minority members of the majority people. They don't have a threshold. It's five percent of them, and now it's rising to seven percent. Who wants to rule out the local self-government of those who are Serbs? We've always said it, no one in Serbia should be missing anything unless it's a Serb. Also, no one in Serbia should be missing anything because he is a Serb. It is therefore more logical to introduce proportionate representation at the level of mixed environments, such as the proportion of the population of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15330	According to the amendment, MP Vladan Batic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15331	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment has its own logic, because ever since this coalition government was formed and this co-habitation-coalition-market-market power, the only criterion is to politicise everything and everything; not to lie, from couriers, to cleaning women no one can be admitted into a working relationship unless they are a member of any party. So, give me a cleaning lady in the village library if she's not a member of some party. It's the only criterion. Speaking of politicization, let's not minimize that to rural libraries, I'm interested in whether the politicization of NIS sales is "Gasprom" and what it says in the NIS-Gasprom co-operation agreement, and it's about territorial organisation. So, how is the date of the signing of the agreement already established, on January 18th in Sofia, and the agreement, which is secret as the "Protocols of Zionic Wises", will be announced in 50 or 100 years. It's a topic of politicization and depoliticalism. So, we have Minister Dinkic, who publicly declares that this is a sale in indemnity, for a bogeyman, that we get nothing from the Russians. With regard to the functioning of local self-government and territorial organisations, the question on which regulations are set and which regulations exclude the tender for privatisation of Serbia's largest firm? Where does that say? Is that maybe a Christmas present to Putin? The other day, you gave Miskovic a New Year's present, and this must be Putin's Christmas present. Is this the beginning of cremation, of Russianization, of Serbia's Governorization? How come at this very moment when, like, Russia is supposed to save our cradle? It is not its own – Kiev was the capital of Tsar Russia, and now it is the capital of Ukraine – but will save ours. So is this the beginning of Serbia's colonization – and this requires an explanation because it is the most important issue at this point – or do some government members have some interests? We hear some government tycoons and some members of the Russian cabinet have already taken an advance of 100 million. He who is the biggest shareholder of that bank where the country's most foreign reserve is, and that bank is in Moscow... Let's see what this is all about, who's selling it to Serbia as Alajbeg's straw for nothing, like a drum? You see symbolism, for God's sake, will be a gas pipeline, which has a very likable term - "South Stream", and the "South Stream" will be poured into Maricevic's Jarug, because every year we mark Serbia's day. The stream and the ravine, that's what we're being offered, and that's why you must have voted so warmly for Resolution. I remained in debt the other day, after I mentioned the sacred example of Dragoljub Micunović, to say that another man remained faithful to some ideals and did not succumb to party discipline, and I did not see him because he was sitting behind me – so Srdjan Milivojevic. There are honorable exceptions and there are those that hold to those principles that have brought us together in the fight for Serbia, whose main values will be neither the stream nor the yoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15332	The 56th Amendment with correction was brought together by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 66th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov, Alexander Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15333	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to a chapter of the Bill that regulates the area of local self-government. Meat self-government is a very important part of the local self-government system for national minorities, especially in those municipalities where at the municipal level of minorities make up a significant minority, but in certain settlements these municipalities are in an absolute or relative majority. So these local communities practically play a role in quasi-local self-government. For this reason, we have submitted an amendment to specify the provisions of the bill. According to the Bill of Law of the Unit of Local Self-Government, however, all other issues are covered by the acts of the local self-government. That's how it was in the old days, by the way. As a result, many complaints were filed to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court built some legal practice regarding local communities. According to the Constitutional Court, practically, the local communities are completely independent after their establishment. I don't think that's good because in many local communities this solution has led to local community blockades, because there was no body that controls their work. We have therefore proposed an amendment aimed at allowing local self-governments to adopt one general act on the basis of which a local self-government unit could handle all those issues that are important for the functioning of local communities. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been accepted, with the reason that the establishment and work of the local community is regulated by the statute of the municipalities, or the city. It would be good for the Constitutional Court to accept this explanation, because then not all these problems would exist in practice. Otherwise, if the Constitutional Court remains at the position it has been standing at so far, then practically all these problems will continue to exist, so I don't know why the government didn't accept the amendment. I don't think accepting this amendment would change anything in the concept of local self-government. I'm asking two questions, we haven't submitted the amendment, but we don't think they're good or they're not the best solutions in this law. On the one hand, only in the case of a village is the compulsory establishment of local communities. We believe that there are many suburban settlements that are very similar to the villages, according to their characteristics, so the obligation to establish local communities was also required for suburban settlements. On the other hand, there are also a large number of problems in the functioning of local communities due to the lack of basic material resources to work, so the government should have foreseen some mechanisms that would provide some minimum resources for the purpose of functioning local communities, because this is not the case at this time, which is certainly not good. So, I appeal to the motionary's representative to reconsider the possibility of accepting this amendment, because I think that accepting this amendment would mean improving the text of the law and preventing the creation of a blockade in the work of local communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15334	Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee on Local Self-Government is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 79. At the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 83rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15335	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, it is actually two amendments that are very similar, and the same amendment has been submitted to Article 84, however, to talk about what I said yesterday to the Minister at one point and at a meeting of the Committee really doesn't make sense, since it is a very bad framework set up so that the province really doesn't have the opportunity to achieve its autonomy. So this is the framework set up by the existing Constitution and the Law on State Administration. For that very reason, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina was against it. We really believe that the Constitution prevents true decentralisation and thus better life for Serbian citizens. That's why I'd like to ask the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister... Several times during this debate, the minister explicitly said that Serbia is an example of how the country should be decentralised. I ask him not to say that anymore, because Serbia is a highly centralised country in which the province has no jurisdiction, there is no possibility of even fulfilling its own decisions. As we can see, the government is not prepared to accept such an amendment that the province's decisions are binding and they are not for anyone, not even for local self-governments located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It is a shame that a minister from the Democratic Party, who in principle and declares himself to be the autonomy of Vojvodina, does not want to accept these amendments and so much does not trust the province's politicians, the administration and the citizens of Vojvodina to allow them not to take their own lives into their own hands, to bear responsibility for their lives. Because autonomy is the only measure of responsibility and the measure of willingness to take responsibility for the things that happen in our lives. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee, I really did banalize the situation, and I told the Minister that unless we're ready to return the AP Vojvodina to jurisdiction, unless we're ready to give her any authority and if we really have no intention of having a province that serves something, if we're going to have a province that serves nothing, then let us end it, that at least it doesn't cost the citizens anymore. The purpose of autonomy is not to cost citizens, that citizens have another administration to pay for, the purpose is to make them live better. I ask the Democratic Party to stop just by saying that it advocates the autonomy of the Vojvodina and that it begins with the works.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15336	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Alexander Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic together submitted to the 84th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MPplatimir Stevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton together submitted to the 87th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 88th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, we have said that it is good that this bill gives local self-government the opportunity to educate joint bodies, joint ventures and institutions. I think it's a real step towards the 2002 law and, of course, we welcome and support it. We have submitted an amendment aimed at simply prescribing one obligation to the Republic, under which each budget law would oblige the Republic to provide specific means to promote co-operation and association of units of local self-government. Many countries, above all in the European Union, have found that some jobs are done much more effectively through the association of local self-governments and these forms of co-operation of the state also support financial resources in the central budgets, in the state budgets. The reason why the amendment refuses is that the financing of the activities of the local self-government units is regulated by a special law. It is, of course, true, but this bill contains some of the provisions relating to the financing of local self-government, so I don't think it was necessary for that reason to reject this amendment. However, I have a feeling that it has simply not yet reached some point when this centralistic and ethical approach, which unfortunately still exists, will be abandoned. I think that's more why this amendment is being rejected. I want to use this announcement to say two or three sentences on the part of the law relating to the obligation to obtain prior consent from the Ministry to determine the holidays and make decisions on street names and settlements. For these decisions, mandatory procurement of the consent of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is foreseen. I don't think this solution is good either, and it's really ethical. In fact, the point is good, the goal for which this solution exists is good, and the intention, however, there are other ways to apply these mechanisms. In fact, the government could have predicted that local self-government units' congregations had an obligation to, when they brought these acts, several days after their entry into force, deliver these acts to the Ministry. If, then, the Ministry considers that some acts do not comply with the provisions of the law, so they insult public morality, state interest, etc., it should warn local self-government, and if, after that warning, local self-government still does not want to change their decision then to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. I think that solution would be much more appropriate and much more in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Unfortunately, this issue remains for some amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Once again, I ask the motionary's representative to consider accepting our amendment concerning the provision of funds that would support the co-operation and association of units of local self-government. This amendment would not change the essence of the law, it would just send a signal that the government really seriously thinks it would be good for local self-governments to co-operate and team up. I think that would be a good signal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15338	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, firstly I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 87, and I am asking the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day. The article reads: "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, are attended by members of the government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, as well as by other persons who call the president of the National Assembly." The minister's gone, the deaf talk, but the public's here to hear and see what's going on. Besides, you've been passing a set of laws for a month, a series of proposals, first of all, on party interests, and for citizens, you just don't care. The amendment that I have submitted to the 86th Law on Local Self-Government and Territorial Organization once again shows you, since it is in the election campaign, to you from the Democratic Party, the citizen in the first plan, the man, how much you care about it and how much you care about the citizen and the people. The amendment, which I have submitted, is added in Article 86 following Article 6, to the new positions 7 and 8, which read: "The government of the Republic of Serbia is making a special solution on the establishment of municipal councils in Kosovo and Metohija until conditions for local elections are met. During the appointment of municipal council members, the government takes into account the application of criteria for the percentage representation of parliamentary parties. The number of members of the municipal council as set out in item 1 of this article depends on the size of the municipality and the number of inhabitants." I want to remind you, these days there have been talk of so-called. The coordinators. I mean, they're not coordinators, they're community presidents. After all that has been happening in Kosovo and Metohija since 1999, we have three categories of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, which are: municipalities that have survived and that function, conditionally said, as if nothing had happened; they are Zubin Potok, Leposavic, Zvečan, partially Strpce and Novo Brdo. A number of municipalities had to leave their seats and are located in Kosovo and Metohija: the Pristina case in Gracanica, the Kosovo case Polja and Ugljar, the Lipljan case in Gracanica and the Gjilan case in Ranilug. The seat of a number of municipalities is outside Kosovo and Metohija and is located in Serbia; this primarily refers to Metohija, Djakovic, Pec, Klin, East, etc. You gentlemen invented the term coordinator in 2000. Let me remind you, from then to this day, six thousand people are making compensation from the area of local self-government, they're getting paid. These are three categories of persons: persons who are employed and work in the space of Kosovo and Metohija - 200%; people who are not employed and live in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija - 100%; those whose family is in Serbia and who work in Kosovo and Metohija - 120%. The largest category of people is those who receive a minimum wage, it is 27,000 people, of which 10,000 in the area of Kosovo and Metohija exercise the right to a temporary refund - 11.600, and those in Serbia, 17 thousand, unfortunately 4,600, exercise the right to compensation. Although the government has brought some kind of help regulation for next year, it is a pre-election trick, we will see how it will be realized. Why have I submitted the amendment, and why do I suggest that he adopt it? You, without constitutional basis and without respect for the positive legal rules in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, introduced so-called an inoskeletal organ. That's what they're called. coordinators. The honor of exceptions, but in the field, we have in practice cases that these coordinators are very often misbehaved, in terms of determining the status of the person, so if he likes you partyly, you go to 200% of the salary, and if you're not his party colleague, then you go to the minimumer, etc., and even the end of the working relationship. That's not a good solution. The answer is, indeed, a scandal, and you are inclined to do so, saying: "Amendment is not accepted. The position of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija and the achievement of local self-government in this province is a very sensitive political issue, and the uncertain effects of the proposed solution are at this point. "Dear gentlemen, I want to remind you. Why did we hold the Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija? Why have we spent time and debated all day worrying about the people of Kosovo and Metohija? I will remind you, in paragraph 7 of Resolution – given the above, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sets out the following positions as a framework for the operation of state authorities and other public actors in defence of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Under point (g) the Government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to apply more effectively the constitutional powers of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as to strengthen the functioning of state institutions in the exercise of these powers. In particular, the government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to act effectively in all circumstances to protect life, property, rights, the freedom of citizens in the region, especially the Serbian and non-Albanian populations. So, it's an empty story. Empty promises. I would also like to inform the public and the people of the area of Kosovo and Metohija that we discussed this issue at one of the meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. I must say that, unanimously, on the proposal of the president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, we have defined ourselves to introduce a municipal council. Now some members of that committee say there was no such decision, even the record is hidden. We're going to use the Rules of Procedure's right and we're going to get to that record to make it public. At a meeting of the SPS parliamentary group, attended by the distinguished Mr. Markovic, the topic was also discussed. It was then announced that it was a great idea and that it should be realized. It would have been better and more correct if you had written in an explanation – the amendment is not accepted because it was proposed by the Socialist Party of Serbia, or by its MP. Why do we insist on this? You are now expressing some fear of the UNMIK administration through this response and how it will react to the international community. After all, you do everything on the orders of this international community, and you publicly advocate some sort of local elections, when they are called on both Kosovo and Metohija territory. If this amendment is not adopted and the matter is not formally closed, I wonder how will you conduct these elections? The Socialist Party of Serbia and I believe that this is a matter that requires a specific analysis, how we are going to conduct local elections, this is your advocacy, because you are not dealing with it. You do political tricks to get political points, but I think the people see it. How will we conduct local elections in Pristina if 40,000 citizens of Serbian nationality and other non-Albanian nationalities are known to be outside Kosovo and Metohija? We're not going to choose a councilman whose headquarters will be in Subotica, Belgrade, Kragujevac, etc.? Why didn't you bring them back, Mr. Djokovic, for the past eight years? Because that's when they promised you that when Milosevic's rule is no more, you would return 200 thousand, and you returned, I don't know how much. Since that's a sensitive question, we get from the ministry to the ministry, since there are two governments, three governments, you do what's right... You say in response that there should be no such municipal council, and here in response, when it comes to education, you say there should be state authorities. There are state authorities and there's a department of the Ministry of Education in Mitrovica and there's a department of the Ministry of Education in Ranilug, but you shut down the Department of Central Affairs. The Minister's gone. I want to ask the question of the minister, given the answer I received – to what extent and how does he think that is a sensitive question in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? There are inocular organs, so-called. coordinators. The proposal of the SPS and my proposal is to introduce, instead of in-house bodies, a municipal body, a municipally larger body, in order to collectively manage and avoid abuse as regards the work and functioning of local self-government. Based on the Constitution and constitutional preamble and on the resolution we have brought to the Assembly, I would like to ask the minister – do you believe that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia or are you treating it in another way? I expected you to make a scandal in the law on territorial organisation and local self-government, so you would not count the municipalities and settlements in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what you did, and the law says that, which is good. I ask you - if we have now discussed in detail and if in two or three hours we are going to adopt this law on territorial organisation and local self-government, how will the Minister of Local Self-Government implement and establish the functioning of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija and how will ensure that local elections are held in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? It's a very delicate and serious question, and that's why I've proposed this amendment to collective management, but obviously it doesn't suit you. It is not appropriate for you to be in that council, given that there were no elections in Kosovo and Metohija, a composition that will maintain the composition until the conditions of party participation in parliament are obtained. It doesn't suit you, you're suited to individuals you're going to manipulate, to do whatever you want, and to the harm of the citizens. So once again, I urge that in the day for the vote, which will be today, to accept this amendment, that is, the SPS amendment, and thus to ensure formal closure and what you stand for, and that is that many abuses in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, we begin to remove and eliminate, if you care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15340	According to the amendment, the MP is Dr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15341	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the government's response to Mr. Stevic's amendment is the highlight of hypocrisy, showing double morality. Because why did you vote so loudly for Resolution when in the government's reply it said... The amendment seeks to create conditions for holding local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, the answer reads: "The amendment is not accepted. The position of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija and the achievement of local self-government in this province is a very sensitive political issue, and are the uncertain effects of the proposed solution at the moment. "So you do not believe that at the time of the call, or local elections, May, Kosovo and Metohija will be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. The government says they don't believe it, that's what it says here. Then what did you vote for Resolution? Who are you lying to? Who are you kidding? What kind of a matchmaker government is that? What kind of a matchmaking coalition is that? Which you didn't honestly say -- we don't know what's going to happen, let's wait, let's not make a 197 resolution that doesn't mean anything and doesn't have any effects. So there is no basic answer to the basic question – what will Serbia do if Albanians declare independence and the US and the European Union recognise it? Then is our perspective "South Stream" and Vladivostok, what is our future? Secondly, what will the people of Kosovo and Metohija, the citizens of non-Albanian nationality, do you tell them to stay? If you tell them to stay, why did you tell them not to go to the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and to fight there for participation in the local government, if you tell them to stay if Kosovo is independent. If you tell them to go, where do they go? All 10-12% of them, mostly political and intellectual, quasi-intellectual elite, have some accommodation in Serbia, and where will the poverty of paradise? To the refugees, to the tractor trailers, to the constituency centers? Where's he going? But here's the simplest question, the most elementary now that winter is -- how does the government intend to, say, provide electricity for Old Gacko, for the Butts, for Shilova, for the Strpce, for the Osojans, for the Gorazdevac, how? How will the government secure it, answer that question. The display of dual morality is very well demonstrated in Kosovo and Metohija. For example, an example of Trepce, who is for leadership and directors of Trepce's mother, for stepmom workers. Some of them are perfectly whatever it is they already have links and dealings with people from UNMIK and they don't care what the fate of Trepce will be. So, I have already mentioned the sale of exclusive business space, I have mentioned enormous damage to the sale of lead concentrate, i.e. lead dust; it is estimated to be between 60m and 100m euros. But here's an explanation. The leadership of Trepce, directors of Trepce school their children in hate London and each month go to London to visit children. You're asking for a JAT report and you'll see. I don't know why children don't go to Vladivostok, Irkutsk, Novosibirsk, that would be patriotic, but in London. They're still having fun, they're talking about where they've been, what they've been doing, and how they've been having fun in London. Others, including engineers, a couple of engineers in Trepca, have been receiving 30 euros for years. Where are they going to train their children? Where is the future of their children? Their children would like to be in London, but how, they can't have their parents providing them with it. It's a story of dual morality, as well as illegal roads, illegal customs crossings, a building without a tender, a bridge for nowhere. The bridge is built as a charm in the sky or on the ground, a place called, watch out for these symbols, that would add, "South Stream", Maricevic's Jaruga and - a bridge on Duda's cross, so wonderfully, to make sonnet one. But that bridge doesn't go anywhere, like these two times, has five nursing homes. Without a tender, it is not known who made the decision, who gave the advance, who is building, in fact, it is known who is building, the man who is headed the Kosovo Chamber of Commerce, etc. Not to mention the donations some people from this room receive from the hateful Western countries, and they didn't ask Putin, patriot. So there's no patriotism, their only ideology is money, so I could call that their ideology... What do I call her...? They're patriots. Patriots, not patriots. Then it is normal that they are not interested in an amendment proposing conditions for holding elections in Kosovo and Metohija. We said, "I, as an MP of the Democratic Party, people from the LDP Parliament Club, from LSV, SVM and other MPs," that it was worth nothing. The government confirms that it does not believe what it has voted for either, with those big words "we will keep Kosovo as a pupil of the eye". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15342	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15343	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that it is not true that the conditions under which the international co-operation of the local self-government unit is conducted are sufficiently detailed by the provisions of Article 2 88. It's a bill of law. That's the government's response to my amendment. The position of this member only regulates co-operation at the level of units of local self-government, which is not enough to solve existing problems in education, culture, information and economic development, which is why I have submitted this amendment. I must repeat that a number of sensitive problems in education, such as the provision of school textbooks, the creation of school programs, the organisation of professional exams and professional training of educational workers, the issue of diplomas, the non-supervision of scholarships and loans for students, the lack of adequate institutions from the field of culture, the lack of information in Albanian language at central level (currently, RTS does not have any minutes in Albanian language), and a number of other life problems is not solved through competent ministries; simply, in a rather long time period, it is only discussed, and there are no concrete solutions. These problems cannot be solved at present through the national council provided for by the Law on the Protection of Freedom and the Rights of National Minorities, as this law sets collective rights very fluidly. No concrete mechanisms have been provided that would oblige the departments to adequately address issues in the area of collective rights under basic laws. Of course, the Law only lists areas where minorities can exercise collective rights - education, culture, information, official language use. But they are absolutely not regulated instruments which, through basic laws (the law on education, the law on culture, the law on information and official use of language), would solve these issues more specifically by legal provisions so that they could liven up in concrete terms. That's why we have the 2002 law, and for four or five years we've had very sensitive, unresolved problems. I often mention here a problem related to loans and scholarships for students from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje who are studying in Pristina; people appear here, but are automatically rejected. It is known what is the reason for the rejection – since universities in Pristina do not finance the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, nothing has been done throughout this period to allow Albanians to study in their native language, it is impossible in all universities. There used to be a practice that young people in this area, and wider, studied in Belgrade, but that's gone. I already said once that the reasons for this are both political and security. Under the circumstances, there is no way that Albanians from Presevo are coming to study in Belgrade or Novi Sad. Not to be the longer story, we know that, and when there were such attempts, it was tragically completed, or after three or four months of pressure, they had to leave the study. We ask the question, if we are not prepared to give the citizens of this country the right to education, in addition to primary and secondary education, and higher education... That right is, you already know, guaranteed by the Council of Europe Convention. We're not trying to solve it. Our students are in Pristina, Tirana and Tetovo. If as a state we don't solve this problem, then isn't it a place to say that local self-government will solve this problem until this government is ready to solve it in another way, in general, all relations with competent state-level organisations in all universities where they study? The solutions must be found. How many times I've heard here from legal experts that the law has to fit reality, life. So if that's the problem, let's regulate it by law, that the legal provisions correspond to the real state of life. The fact is, for now, students are studying outside the university of this country. And so in turn, no penny is given for their education. There comes a graduate pharmacist, or any expert, and then he exposes himself to a nostriction procedure. In the case of pharmacies, two years later, he doesn't manage to nostrify his degree. Now what? He's got to go back to where he went to college to look for a job, 'cause he can't find him here. It encourages emigration. You probably have data that in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji, according to the 2002 census, there are about 60,000 Albanians, and in 1981 there were 71,000 in these three municipalities; so there is a drastic reduction in number compared to that of 20 and a few years ago. Not counting on the natural growth of the basic account is that more than 30,000 Albanians have moved in the direction of Kosovo and the European countries. This is the fact that state structures do not want to face when the law is passed. They simply do not have an active approach to solving these problems. Now what? The National Council has not given an appropriate solution for the time being. The coordination body has absolutely failed in the last three years. The last reorganization failed completely. It does not deal with those original powers and competences that the Federal and Republic Government, somewhere in February 2001, made their decisions. That was even internationally supported. You know what the Coordination Body is bending down to - only one parade when certain jubilee are marked; then they are given flat-rate qualifications that do not correspond to reality at all. The coordination body does not deal with the life problems of Albanians in the area, nor with economics, because the economic situation is catastrophic; 70% of people are unemployed, young generations have no chance. Their only chance is to look for a way out. Imagine, we talk all the time about Kosovo and the situation that has been unresolved, the Presevo malts sometimes manage to find employment there, because in municipalities where they live, where they pay taxes, they have no chance of getting employed. These are the life problems that the Coordination Body was in charge of, and it's formed for it, and it doesn't give answers, it doesn't deal with it. It deals with everything and everything, even with the situation in Sandzak, even relations with the international community; representative meetings, where ambassadors, diplomats are brought, show that sausages are doing something big, but the basic fact is that unemployment is more than 70%. It's a real situation on the ground. If on occasions like this, when it's really possible, like this amendment that we've given a little bit wider, to the village police, that the possibility of the congregations giving at least an opinion on the executives... Imagine, it was the idea of the 1990s, and it was seriously discussed then, and now I see no interest in MPs other than minority representatives, to discuss this issue more seriously. Now, if there's a specific situation on the ground, then let's get going. If we want to integrate people, why not ask legitimate representatives for an opinion in the local congregation? According to this current political logic, the problems are not solved by economic, political means, but by bringing in special forces, they are dealing with it in no time. You know how they handle it; in half an hour, two hours, the situation is solved anywhere, for example, at a stadium or in a closed area in Belgrade, so they retreat. And you know we've had seven or eight years of special police force over our heads, even traffic regulates us, even the controls that local police used to do with special measures. I think we should take advantage of this opportunity, local self-government is the one that should give basic answers to people's problems on the ground, and that we could discuss these specificities a little bit more seriously, that we had a sense of it. Unfortunately, this time too, we are missing the chance to talk more seriously about the continuing problems of our people on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15344	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new article 88a be added after article 88a. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 91st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted to the 91st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd Amendment was jointly submitted by Members of the People Radovan Radovanovic, Alexander Marton and Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton submitted the amendment to Article 94. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted the amendment to Article 98. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 102a be added after Article 102a. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lasslo Varga, one of the amendment's proposings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15345	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 87(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that legislation will be passed that regulates the property of local self-government, the way it is used and available. We have proposed an amendment to pass this special law within three months of the date of entry into force of this law. We just don't think there's a concept of decentralisation without property. Mr. Minister said decentralisation in Serbia is at an envious level, that Serbia is a highly decentralised state. I don't think it's possible to even open a discussion about it, about the level of decentralisation, while municipalities and cities don't have their own property. For this reason, we have submitted this amendment and, unfortunately, I have to say that there is a suspicion that this law will not be passed in 2008 or until the end of 2008. There are two reasons why I say this. One reason is the Budget Law. In the debate on this budget law, we have also proposed an amendment to provide for the budget law to be used for the implementation of this law, as this process of restoring property to local self-government will surely require certain resources. Unfortunately, that amendment was not accepted at that time either. On the other hand, I think it is indisputable that the National Assembly is in a huge delay as regards the harmonisation of the law with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 5(2) The constitutional law implementing the Constitution was prescribed a whole series of laws and decisions that the National Assembly was to adopt during the Second Session, following the government's election. Unfortunately, these laws and those decisions have not been made, so it is almost certain that by the end of 2008, by 31 December of next year, not all the laws... It is simply not possible to bring all these laws into line with the new Constitution. I'm afraid one of the laws that won't be passed next year will be exactly the law returning property to local self-government. That way, unfortunately, the Constitution will be broken again. Otherwise, there is one very good reason why you should have accepted this amendment and prescribed this three - month period for the National Assembly. By accepting this amendment, it would be possible to proceed immediately after the local elections, expected in May of next year, with the process of restoring property to local self-government. I think that would really be a good solution. Once again, unfortunately, I really doubt that local self-government will get any property back in 2008. In the end, I would like to commend Mr. Secretary. I think this is the way that... I don't mean, of course, disrespecting the deadlines, but the other part of the consultation, I think this is a very good way to pass the law. I just hope this isn't an exception and that it will work this way in the future, and that now it wasn't just because we could adopt these laws by midnight, because then we'll be back in the same problems that we've been in before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15346	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of promoter Milan Markovic, State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the proposal for a law on local self-government, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL CHOICES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Vlatko Ratkovic, Branislav Nedimović, Jovan Nešović, Miletic Mihajlović, Milisav Petronijevic, Rajko Baralić, Aleksandra Jerkov and Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Marton, Radovan Radovanović and Aleksandra Jerkov, Vjerica Radeta, Veroljub Arsic, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Milorad Buha, Srdjan Šajn, Milisav Petrović and Vidoje Jovanovic, as well as the Committee on Local Self-Govers. National MP Vladan Vukicevic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 18. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Local Self-Government. You've received the government's opinion. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15347	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with article 145 and Article 163. Rules of Procedure, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18(1). In the original text, Article 18. The proposal for a law on local elections, I will read it, reads: "The candidates for committees can propose, especially or together, political parties, coalitions and other political organisations, as well as groups of citizens whose election papers support at least 30 voters per proposal for each candidate on the election list. The proposer shall have at least one third of the candidates of the total number of committees to be elected on the election list. "The amendment I submitted to this article suggested that in point 1 "30" be replaced by "20". Why was I handling that principle? It is said here in paragraph 2 that in units of local self-government that have less than 20,000 voters (and that is fine, I think logical) the list can be confirmed by 200 voters. Let's say that if one of the locals has 21,000 voters, eight or nine political parties are participating in the elections, which we can realistically expect, and we have 35 or 40 committee members, and about the number of committees in local parliaments is moving, political parties will have to visit more than one third of the total number of voters to collect signatures and confirm their lists. So instead of the number "30", I suggested the number "20", which is more rational, on the one hand, in terms of collecting signatures, if we already have to go around one third of the total electoral body, maybe even more, but it will show up in practice. The second thing, more practically, in Article 23(4), will determine the amount of compensation, thus reducing the amount of compensation for political parties to confirm their list. That's why I've just proposed this amendment. I want to thank the government and the minister once again on behalf of the SPS MPs whose amendments have been accepted and on my behalf – I have submitted six, and three have been accepted. I mean, I was actively involved, and the vice president reacted in a way that wasn't appropriate for the vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15348	Thank you, Mr. President of Love Community. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we're being lightly defined for certain forms or certain mechanisms in the process of conducting local elections. Of course, it was before that the candidacy of certain lists was supported by a number of signatures. In doing so, this technology was simpler, but this part is now complicated by the fact that these signatures have to be certified, which is regulated by a special member. Here it was taken care of by municipalities that have under 20,000 voters, which is fine. However, when it comes to municipalities that have more than 20,000 voters, we have a large range of voters, starting with municipalities that have 20.001 voters, it is theoretically possible, to those municipalities that have 50, 60 or maybe 100,000 voters, and there are certainly municipalities that are really big. I would say, if I could express it, it depends on whether it's right, but that support capacity or, if you want, some voting potential is not the same for those municipalities that are slightly above 20,000 (I'm not talking about those that are below, since it's regulated with 200 signatures) and those municipalities that have over 50, 60 or 70,000 voters. It's a huge difference and you can imagine what energy should be spent, which is the difference between one and the other municipalities. I don't think all municipalities are in the same position, and that means that even citizens aren't put in the same position. During yesterday's consultations, there was the will of Mr. Markovic to come to a certain solution by making a single scale or by building the required number of signatures. Approximately, this would remain up to 20,000 - 200 signatures; from 20 to 30, there were talks to be 400 signatures; between 30 and 40,000 - 600 signatures; and over 600 signatures to be 30 per candidate. It was taken into account, and in these conversations we said that these minority lists, in fact, lists that won't have full capacity, which will have at least one third, which is a condition, can be chosen on this scale, say, 400 or -30 per candidate, depending on which one's better. Unfortunately, I am not going to appoint now, during these consultations, there has been an explicit position of individual representatives present, and this has not been adopted. I don't think we're thinking enough and we're bringing in certain parameters that are going to prove impractical tomorrow and which citizens we're putting in a different position. As we have some other provisions of the laws that are controversial, I think this provision in some areas will strike upon the party's head who will vote for such a solution as in the bill. I don't think that's a good solution and that we should have defined it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15350	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 18. I'm going to explain something broader about the bill on local elections and for the sake of the public. This Article 18. The proposal for a law on local elections is very important because it talks about running. Article 18 provides that candidates for committees can propose, in particular or together, political parties, coalitions and other political organisations, as well as groups of citizens whose electoral lists support at least 30 voters per proposal for each candidate on the election list. The proposer shall have at least one third of the candidates of the total number of committees to be elected on the election list. Local self-government units with less than 20,000 voters listed in Article 1 have also been identified when supported by their signatures by at least 200 voters, and not to list any further. At the same time, we have also observed article 23, which says voters who support the list have to be certified. We see two big problems here. These two big problems the state wants to pass on to its citizens. How? By providing a large number of signatures for the candidates for the list. Later, when we're in a position, we'll calculate to you, in the middle where the boardman can be chosen by using the natural threshold, it takes a lot less votes to be a boardman than it needs to be a candidate. On the one hand, on the case of 21,000 voters. Secondly, we have a situation where there are about 8,000 council members in Serbia. I'm sorry that Mr. Minister isn't here, it would be correct if we faced arguments a little bit, but it became a rule -- whenever they find themselves in such a situation, they come out, like, they have something. So there are 8,000 council members in Serbia; for candidates, to be candidates, it takes 30 signatures, 240,000 people; 240,000 people in all of Serbia for only one list. If four lists took part in the election, it's a million people. The state is harassing millions of people in Serbia with this law member and forcing them to go and ask for signatories. We think it's crazy, that we need the number of signatures to adapt to the size of the municipality. We've offered a few variations. The one I've offered is this: 30 signatures per candidate, for municipalities over 100,000 voters; for municipalities below 100,000 voters to be worth 20, for those below 20,000, as already stands here, 200 signatures. I think that would be more correct. It's just one piece. The second part of the problem, with regard to Article 23, will be said in more detail, is the major harassment of citizens of Serbia over the signing. What's the point here? It used to happen that the signatures were collected on blanko, they signed themselves in the parties; we had such cases during the Belgrade mayor's election in the previous elections. It was, I guess, an offer from the legislator to stop it, but it prevented it the wrong way. We think we need to run a background check on anyone who signed for a candidate, but let the electoral commission do it, let the MUP do it, whoever needs to do it in this country and check it out. If one signature is found that is false, let the election list be eliminated, it cannot participate in the elections. This would protect the correctness of the signature. Let the state do it. So, we have a situation that the state wants to protect this member of the law, but by not talking about paying, not talking about having places where there are no verifyers. In Belgrade, it's easy to do, but imagine those small environments, those little places where people can't find them, where they can't get their hands on them. I warn that this is a big problem and that this is a very bad relationship between the legislators and the citizens of Serbia. Government, i.e. The bill's proposer is harassing millions of Serbian citizens, who must seek where they can verify their signatures, and the state has the right to verify that each signature is correct. Here you go, there's mechanisms, there's ways. Where it finds that the signature is not correct, let the electoral list be eliminated; it cannot participate in the elections, let it be punished. Do not harass Serbian citizens, millions of them, if only four electoral lists participate in the elections. So the essence of our amendment is, firstly, to make some graduation that these 30 signatures apply to municipalities that have more than 100,000 inhabitants, and as this number is reduced as well. We're going to have a middle that has twenty-seven thousand voters, where it usually comes out 30-40% in local elections, where they won't be able to cover everyone for a signature. So, on the one hand, grading towards the size of the municipalities, and on the other hand, I call on one more time to consider whether to harass the citizens by running and seeking over the signature. If the state were ready, if it could organize its own administrations in every local community, every day, then that would mean that there's no problem, then let it sign, etc., even though it can be misused. Take an example of a municipality that has 60 council members, so times 30 candidates that's 1,800 voters, 1,800 voters per five minutes just to last, that's already all right, it's so many hours that it's 18 working days per eight hours. Do you people know what that means for Serbian citizens? Five minutes, but provided everyone's here at once. I'm talking about one list, I'm not talking about five or six lists. What environment can it have, I don't count Belgrade again, where it's easier anyway, because the concentration is higher, which environment can have such conditions? Calculate, 1,800 times five minutes, divide by the number of hours, take that eight hours a day, 18 days should only be verified for one election list. Please, take a good look at it again, look, we're fully agreed that it should be rigorous control of every signature, let the state take it, let it check. If one signature is false, even if counting is necessary, one false, eliminate the election list. Don't harass a million people in Serbia. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15352	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15353	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I will try in the next few minutes just to say that this law is not in accordance with the Constitution, that it is not in line with what you wrote in the explanation, which is that the bill contains a solution that ensures the proportionate representation of members of the national minorities and that this law is a typical example of the situation - I am giving you this hand, and I am slapping you with this hand that you cannot take what I am giving you. Let's try to track numbers together and see if that's the case. First, do you agree... You don't have to go out for a pay phone, it's enough if you nod my head on certain principles. I'll take nod, you don't have to say. Do you agree that, by law, the number of committees in local self-government units is not a fixed matter and that they can choose to have the number of committees between 19 and 75? Do we agree on that? So we agree. Minister, I'll ask you to listen to me. I will try to explain why this solution is contrary to the Constitution and to the spirit of this law. First, the number of council members in local self-government units is not a fixed matter. We could have a different number of committees, it could be 19, 20, 30, 75. The second thing, if the number of council members is increased by a decision of the municipality, then one committee should be worth less voters, not more voters, because the more committees there are compared to the same electoral body, the less the natural threshold, rather than the increase in the number of council members, the greater the voter's body. What do the numbers show now? I'm going to show on one case what can theoretically happen. There are about 22,000 voters in Kovacica. If we count turnout over 50%, it's realistic to get around 11,600 voters out. Next, if we look at it, we'll see that there's one place worth... For us, this is a very important thing, because it depends on our direct representation in the organs of local self-government. So between 260 and 290 votes we need in the Kovačica municipality to have minority representatives in the municipality. However, under the same law, we must collect 390 signatures. So we have to have 130 signatures more than we have to win in the election. If we now descend into the theory under this law we have the following results: the same number of voters, the same turnout over fifty-percent, if we have 30 councilors we need 433 voters and 300 votes. However, we need 289 voters to get the natural threshold, and we need 450 voters to verify the signatures. At 60 voters, 216 are required for the natural threshold, and 600 voters must verify the signatures. I'm sure it's different for most parties if we're talking about 5%. I wouldn't go into it because we haven't analyzed it, and I wouldn't comment on that part of the question, probably if there were some weaknesses, but just let us try to eventually find another solution. For me, it is acceptable and this solution, if the minister accepts, to find some way out, to change the amendment or the Committee to give its amendment; if there is a larger number, then at least we have a 200-choice limit so that minorities can hand over the lists. If we accept that in municipalities where there are over 20,000 voters, we can verify a list of 200 voters and we can hand over that list... Why does it matter to the Roma national community? The difference between the Roma national community and other minorities is that Roma are across Serbia. Do not punish the Roma because they live in all municipalities of Serbia, which have a good relationship with the citizens of Serbia, which does not concentrate and at that concentration, in fact, do not draw certain benefits in the electoral process. There is a difference between Roma and other national communities. I ask you once again to accept this, because we would really help the Roma national community participate in a new way in the bodies of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15354	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15355	I have to say something. Positive discrimination against national minorities, when it comes to European democratic states, exists mainly when it comes to national levels. It's not that common when it comes to the local level. Moreover, our provision from the Constitution that provides for the proportionate representation of national minorities in the SO units, with a surprise it has been accepted by some experts, specifically in the Council of Europe, but let us, we have it, we are happy about it, it is our wealth and it shows the extent of our relationship with national minorities. I think everyone in this room supports that we have such a high standard of exercising those rights. The Ministry's opinion, and also in the conversation with other parliamentary groups, has come to the conclusion that we are a largely civil society and that there should be no kind of positive discrimination in the run. Let there be a natural threshold, we all agree here that there is this natural threshold, that national minorities enter parliament without censorship, or local parliament without censorship, but we have come to a common position that when running for office we should not make... Because we're afraid that there would be some problems in practice if some groups were to be created inexplicably, trying to legitimize themselves as representatives of national minorities. Believe me, we've been thinking a lot about this; this is what the representatives of the political parties who participated were thinking about, practically, in all the elections so far. But there's something else. There is Mr Vido Jovanovic's amendment to the number of signatures. Since there will be a break between the conclusion of this debate and the vote in order to resolve this and the issue of another amendment, in order for the heads of the parliamentary groups to gather together and discuss it, I suggest, in order to warn further discussions on the issue of the number of signatures, given what Mr. Shane said, although I think his bill... You see how strange things are: when we talk about the majority election, no one bothered that there were 30 signatures per candidate in the municipality of 15,000 people, and now there are 30 signatures per candidate for the municipalities of more than 20,000. I think our electoral system has been so rich in various systems so far and has shown that elections can be made with such a serious political scene, and I think we need to take the political scene seriously because in these elections for the city of Belgrade we had – Mr Nebojsa Covic supported Ivica Dacic. Of course, Ivica Dacic didn't support him, but since there wasn't any signature checks, then everyone was bringing what he had arrived, they were copying activists from the election list, and that was how it went. I think it's good to get the political scene serious. I suggest that the heads of the parliamentary groups discuss this issue, because I think it would solve the issues Mr. Shane is talking about and that perhaps in this way we would warn some further discussion about this. The government has been defined as a proportional electoral system, it has been defined as a serious political scene in the locale, and it has also been accepted by part of the opposition. We thank you for the cooperation we had on that occasion. Simply, that's how the political issue of the electoral system was resolved, but I suggest we hold consultations in that pause. At the very least, at the vote, we'll settle everything, so as we agree, let the vote be that way. Personally, as a minister, I have nothing against such a kind of intervention if it is the attitude of most political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15356	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20(3). The original text says that there must be at least 30% of candidates for the less represented gender on the list. I suggest by amendment that it be 20%. Here's a brief explanation: I don't want any moment to reduce the political activity of a more beautiful sex member, but here the amendment says "at least 20%"; if political parties and groups have the possibility of political engagement of a more beautiful sex member, it doesn't mean that they can't engage more than 20 percent of them on their list. But there is a problem that primarily refers to environments that have fewer inhabitants. The truth is, in such environments a better sex is more rarely decided for political participation and the situation is that it is difficult to provide this required number on the list. If the promoter wanted in some way to put them into political action, then why, on the other hand, did not allow a more beautiful sex member to be included in the mandate. So, the political list, regardless of how long it gets the mandate, is not required to include more beautiful sexes when assigning the mandate. We are now coming into cohesion – on the one hand we impose a commitment, a percentage obligation, and on the other hand we do not give the possibility, i.e. we give the political party the opportunity not to include the more beautiful sex on the list, i.e. not to assign mandates. Once again, I call on the minister to think, because this is the percentage that limits the bottom scale, at least 20%, which allows smaller environments to easily form the lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15358	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15359	I'm going to be very brief on this amendment, so that someone doesn't accidentally get the impression that we are in any way holding back any gender from political engagement, on the contrary. We don't, in principle, have any problems with that. But we're all political people here, and each of us was once the head of the election headquarters. What's your job? Your job is to run for someone who can get the most votes. It's your job. So politics is business. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that there are... I agree that we should change that and do whatever it takes to change it in Serbia, but I will say what is the practical state. So there are mountain-mounted areas, in Serbia it's huge territory, and when you set up the list in advance, you know you'll have a result that won't be satisfactory. That's a lot of trouble. I really don't understand, I would like to be explained, why the legislator did not insist on respecting this principle in the allocation of mandates, and he insisted on this principle when running. I think it's political hypocrisy. So, if the law says that there must be at least 30 per cent of the less-represented half of the candidates on the list, it is perfectly normal that, according to analogy, 30 per cent of the less-represented half of the candidates in the term of office are represented. So, this looks like, I'm sorry, I guess that's not your intention, like someone wanted to sort of complicate things here. Otherwise, we'd be happy if this didn't have to be written in the law and it would be completely even in all of this, evenly in terms of a potential number of votes received, because this is a topic, a man and a woman participate, without any difference, and not that it has to be dealt with by law. So, no matter how we handle this, there's gonna be problems here, but let's see. So, that's not the problem when you solve in Chačka and Belgrade, but that's the problem when you solve in Black Treva, in the Kacher end, in the Dry Mountain and the Old Mountain. If you think I'm not telling the truth, here, I'm ready to apologize, but that's the problem. That's the problem because we're doing an imitation run because then we're running because we have to, and when we're handing out mandates, we don't have to. I don't understand, and that's why I answered; my colleague Jovanovic has submitted this amendment on his own, estimating the opportunities in his municipality, but we will have problems here in the future. So, the political perspective of the Terraces, in large cities and mountain-mounted areas, on a variety of grounds, and this is just one of these issues, is completely different. So that's what I'm going to tell you from experience, when you have a teacher or a nurse in a place or you have a clerk in the administration, etc. You can run easily, but I have to tell you, on my Cablar, you won't find a housekeeper who will fit on anyone's list, unfortunately. It's not a happy environment in Serbia, it's a big pain, but it's true, so we just have to take care of what our country is like, and do everything possible to raise this level up. There was a practice, which was abandoned, prescribed by so-called The socialist alliance of the working people, as they say - this is a list, so many workers, so many women, so many minorities. Then the threshold and everything was resolved, but there was no democracy as its essence. So there was no question of whether it was going to happen, it was precisely known in advance when a list of how young there must be, how many unemployed, how many intellectuals, how many women, how many others. You agreed that it was a surrogate of democracy, not democracy, I'm not complaining about it, I'm just saying what's the problem here right now. This has every municipality in Serbia that has under 20,000 inhabitants. So there are municipalities that have 100 miles per diagonal. So, from Kacer to Dobrinja, where Milosevic Albianic was born, it is 114km, one of the largest municipalities in Serbia, in the territory. I'll talk, according to my amendment, about what it's like to collect signatures in Trudel and Dragol, where people live on climbs of over 45 degrees. Ask you, your Prime Minister has a cottage nearby. He knows what the Kacher ends look like. So it's not a simple question at all because this is how some parties or some political factors are eliminated. If there is no even campaign, then there is no democratic choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15360	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Nesovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Nedimovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 35th Amendment, with corrections, was submitted by MP Jovan Nesovic, who proposes to be in Article 35(2). The bill, as well as in all the other members, mentioning the word "wrap" in the corresponding drop, deletes and replaces the word "courage" in the corresponding decline, as well as amends the position of the 6th member. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Committee on Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment, with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with corrections, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Local Self-Government is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 40. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an amendment that reads - Article 40. The draft law following Article 5 is added to the new position of 6 which reads: "In the midst of which the Serb people are represented in the numbering minority in relation to national minorities, political parties and coalitions of the political parties of the Serb people participate in the allocation of mandates as set out in the provision of the 5th article's stance." This means that if they achieve less than 5%, they participate in the allocation of mandates. You certainly know the demographic situation in our republic. There are environments or municipalities where the number of national minorities is greater, overall, compared to the number of majority, Serb people. So, by applying this law, we can come into a situation where in certain municipalities, especially if the amendment that you have proposed is adopted that coalitions that do not achieve a 7% censorship cannot participate in the allocation of mandates, the local parliaments remain without the representatives of the majority people. I regret to say that the Committee on National Minorities has not considered these laws, especially the law on local self-government, which seems to me, through one member, to treat the issue of national minorities. He also did not consider this law that is important for both national minorities and of course for the majority people. So he didn't take it into consideration, even though I was talking to the chairman of this committee and she regrets that there was no communication between her and the resolution ministry and that she was simply not in a position to do something about it. So, we have the following situation: it seems to me that the practice in this Parliament is such that there is often hesitation as to propose legislation, hesitation by the government, that there is no agreement, agreement on certain important issues, probably the division of power in certain areas of life and work in Serbia, and that everything is being resolved at the last moment. I think that practice has been present since the coming to power of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, so since 2000. Even the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in on the same principle, quickly, as soon as possible, and what it says is the question. Not to be misunderstood, the Socialist Party of Serbia has certainly supported the adoption of a new constitution. It would be supported by the SPS, even if it had made worse solutions than what is in it today, because there are those of the country's most important national interests, there are state interests, for which we will always vote, and for which we will always comply. Since 2000, there has been an opportunity to adopt the constitution in a different way, with a fundamental debate, with an understanding of many things that would be better as a solution. The provision in the Constitution, in Article 180, which was mentioned earlier by the minister, says: "In the autonomous provinces and units of local self-government in which the population of the mixed national composition lives, the relative representation of national minorities in the congregations, in accordance with the law, is possible. "Then we have the astonishment of the representatives of the international community from where we find such a provision in the law. Then we say, "It is a wealth in what is a consideration of the needs of national minorities. I certainly am, I respect that very much, and the SPS, too, but I'm afraid they're in power today, as the people say, bigger Catholics than the Roman Pope. So, solutions are given, and more than necessary, and this often harms the majority, Serb people. If that's the goal, then the goal can certainly be achieved by this. I don't know if the goal, I find it hard to believe, but often certain legal solutions, even constitutional ones, go to the harm of the Serb people. Now we have a situation that, through the provision of Article 40, we will respect, of course, and those results of the parties of national minorities that achieve below 5%, that's fine, but it's not right that in such local self-government we don't have representatives of the majority people, and by applying this law it can happen. What did we need, I say, that we're also making such solutions in the Constitution? Imagine the next situation, in some environments... So, I do not dispute the solution that national minorities should achieve representation in local assemblies if they have less than 5% of the election results, but I stress that on some other lists of parties, for example, the SPS, DSS, the DSS, the SRS, will also be representatives of national minorities. Are they authentic representatives of national minorities? This makes it look like they're not. Thus, representatives of national minorities will be added on this basis by this second. All right, let them be one and the other, but in one of the worst and most drastic cases, it can happen that some list that has united certain political options of the Serb people, the majority people, and if it is adopted even more that it should be 7%, there is no proportion, so it has to fall out and not participate in the allocation of mandates. So, I know it's unpopular now to chat and discuss it, but I can tell you that at least I can be against the interests of national minorities. I grew up in a mixed environment, in an ethnic group that has its own language, its culture and its customs, it doesn't have a standardized letter and language, so they try to force it to be Romanian, but I'll tell you, it's hard for Vlas to commit to being Romanian, very hard. Therefore, I have a feeling of what the needs of citizens who are not what Serbs are, which is a Serbian national being, etc. I also have a deep feeling, both as a socialist, and as a man and as a citizen, for what is the interest of the Serbian state, in which I grew up, in which my children and grandchildren are also. Of course we should take care of it together. Certainly, national rights, human rights and minority rights cannot be disputed and that they go to their expense at the expense of the majority of the people, but neither can the majority of the people in any way have fewer rights than the members of the national minorities. It may be difficult to resolve this issue through this article, perhaps it should have been added or defined through a new member, or it is even difficult to find a real solution if we have already gotten involved in some things in the way that it was done in the Constitution, and it was not necessary, but, please, you who are currently in the ruling structure, in the ruling majority, to take care of what is the interest of the Serbian state. You said in the Constitution that Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and all other citizens, so you don't respect it. We have today in the world a civil concept of states and the rights of citizens where it is minimized, removed or pushed aside by what is nationality, what is a national concept. We have an entire army of NGOs working to break one such concept to finally adopt this civic concept and we are going to order it. Okay, we'll be there. If we go this way, you know what, this country will one day be the state of national minorities and the remaining Serbs. If that's our goal, okay, it's not a dispute. Then I will be married as a national minority and there is no winter for me. I don't know what you're gonna do. Although, when I say "you," it's me. Mr. Todorovic, you are a member of the majority people. So, to conclude, we have in place one hesitation, one very bad, foolish adoption of legal solutions, laws, regulations, that take account of everything, just not of state interests, of national interests. First of all, it takes care of party interests and thus the Constitution is adopted, so other laws are passed, etc. This undermines and undermines what is the interests of this country and what is national interest. I guarantee, if it were to be taken care of, in any case, it would be taken care of, in one quality way, and national minorities. Well, if you were to take care of national minorities, why is the bill not in line, why was there no coordination and relationship with the relevant committee that should be addressed? I know it is not possible for this amendment to pass, at least according to what the consultations were, but my intention was not to give some criticism for criticism, for some political points; the Socialist Party of Serbia and I personally through this amendment are trying to show a very large depth of the problem that can escalate from this and go in one wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15362	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15363	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no minister again, and yet we have no one to talk to. To me, it is a very important explanation of the minister in relation to the reasons they gave in the bill. In order for the public to know what this is about, I will still try to explain what the essence of article 41 is and what is the essence of our amendment that we are asking for it to change completely. It's not worth the story, that we explain to the people that this is Dont's system, and that he used to be Nimajer's, that he's better or worse, etc. They need citizens to understand what's going on. Namely, Article 41. The proposal for a law on local elections speaks of how the mandate has been allocated after the elections have been completed. Prior to that, one member has regulated that all the electoral lists that crossed 5% of the total number of citizens who voted take part in the mandate. How did the proposer predict? He predicted that the allocation of the mandate was carried out by the so-called so-called. Dont's system. What does he basically mean? It means that each election list has its own number of votes that it has received with numbers from 1 to the number how many congregations are numbered by the council, and so each election list. If the assembly of the municipality is 50 council members, it is divided by 1 to 50. That's how you form a string of 50 factors. Each election list divides in the same way from 1 to 50, and then puts everything in one pile and selects 50 of the largest factors. Mathematically nothing controversial, but politically controversial. Why? Because that's where all the votes that got one ballot and plus what's left of the others count. What did we suggest? We have suggested that it remain as it has been so far, a proportional system for the allocation of mandates, i.e. a proportional number of votes received. What does that mean? This means, if one party received 10% of the votes, it will get 10% of the council; 25% of the votes - 25% of the council; 5% of the votes - 5% of the board. Those election lists that didn't get 5%, those votes don't count. That's fair, you voted, you had one political option; you didn't pass the assembly, please, your votes don't count. This system, which the billmaker has stated here, will take those votes into account and thus will result in votes of one political option that is completely contrary to that largest one allowing them to have a larger number of votes. Of course, this mandate-sharing system also allows a relative number of votes to be allocated to larger parties, if not all 50 are not allocated, in case of 50 committee members, then that is, the largest, behind the decimal, the largest decimal number, and the next, etc. So it's going to spill again in some way, but far less than with Dont's system. That's why we think it was completely fairer to change that member of the law. That member of the law was in the current Law on Local Elections. What's wrong with me here? I miss the minister to explain the reasons for me, because he, in an explanation (or the legislator, does not know if he is) says: "Application of a proportionate electoral system without appropriate corrective methods in the run-off phase can lead to favouring those political parties, party coalitions and groups of citizens who enjoy relatively little support of the electoral body. "How is one party favored who received 5% of the votes and 5% of the council? How is that favored, Mr. Minister in absentia? Isn't it favoring the one who got 25% and got a little more? Even in one way or another, only here is less about the one we suggested. So once again, I repeat, a proportional number of votes received, so many councilmen. If some small details stay, it's attributed to the biggest, then to the next, etc. And there's no dispute. With Dont's system, it's much more. So how did the minister here calculate that small parties would be favored? Relatively, it can't be favoring. Dont's favoring it. Of course, what Mr. Markovic says – as soon as 5% has not passed, the extraparliamentary party – it is not disputed and it is fair that these votes are cast, because they voted for someone who has not crossed the censorship, but who has won from 5% to I don't know how much... Please, look at the explanation, though I don't know who I'm dealing with, there's no minister to explain this to me right now, so let me go out with new arguments. In the explanation of the bill, it stands like this – the proposed system allows for the application of so-called "the law". the natural threshold for parties and coalitions of national minorities. If anyone can explain this to me, then I'll drop the story. Please, Mr. President, I will report for any subsequent amendment, any amendment, until the minister comes and explains to me what it says here, until he explains this explanation. For the sake of the public, to round up, the proposed system allows for inequality. The system that has been in the Law on Local Elections has been fairer, as the number of votes received has been relatively divided. We ask that it continue to be so, because so far there has been a system that allows for a proportional number of votes received with a proportional number of committees; so many votes you have received – so many committee members. We think it's the most honest thing and it doesn't favor anyone that much. I repeat, no one favors so much, and so the larger parties have, but smaller pieces to take from it. But this doesn't make sense. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. Here, let me read it one more time, do any of you understand this argument? So I'm not going to talk about it any further, but as soon as the minister returns and explains his explanation, I will continue the controversy with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15364	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15365	I would not now be engaged in lectures that are mathematical differences between the Nimajer system, proposed by Mr Petronijevic and which has so far been in force in the law, and the Donte system that is now proposed in the law. The curiosity works, just to tell you that the scientific work on the subject was first published by Mike Alas. Right away, I support Mr. Petronivic's amendment. The fact is that among the various ways of calculating the mandates in the proportional system is the most honest way exactly what Mr Petronijevic proposes, and so did Mr Nesovic in his amendment, which is practically identical to this. I think it's undeniable and I think this amendment should be accepted. One more thing to say, in an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted is this: "The bill also allows the proposed system to apply so-called. the natural threshold for parties and coalitions of national minorities. "Trust me, it doesn't matter. Whether you have prescribed a 5% or 7% census for some parties, and for some parties, it is a completely different question and it is only a question of who is qualified to enter the distribution, and the distribution is later made either by Nimeyer's system, which is proposed by Mr Petronijevic, or by Dont's system, which is in the bill of law. I assure you it's far more honest with Nimajer's system and I'll give you a brief explanation. The difference is basically in the next one. In the Nimajer system, proposed by Mr Petronijevic, any party from the rest can receive either zero or one MP to the number of MPs who win, and in Dont's system that is not so, so it can happen that some party will win three terms of office, not just one, over the number that belongs; that points to mathematics, but I wouldn't strangle you with mathematical evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15366	The word is Mr. Srdjan Shin, and then the MP Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15367	In order to make the debate more effective, I will talk about this second amendment during these two minutes, so as not to answer again. The problems you've been talking about, which we've tried to open with the amendment that I filed on behalf of the Roma Party, are precisely about trying to ensure that everyone in the local authorities is represented by not favouring those who are great at times when the question is whether it's real or not. In addition to that, our amendment is coming, and I will surely withdraw that amendment if there is a solution that will satisfy both these SPS and DSS positions. Perhaps it wouldn't be a bad idea to bring it together at consultations in a common story. Surely it is much better if minorities have the same rules as the majority parties, and this would sort out the question of minorities, their representation in parliament. I think it's illogical to say that we want to help minorities, we start affirmative actions, and then at one point, when they have the same number of votes or the same ratios as the big parties, we say -- there's the limit. You know, now that you have the same number of votes, now you can't, the same amount, now you can't, there's a limit, because they're there for the first, the second, the third and the fourth councilmen had a little bit more. I think that's where the whole spirit of the law goes down. That's where something else is opening up. I say again that the Roma are the most damaged there, because the Roma in Serbia live in almost all municipalities, where they can have one or two councilmen and then they'll get none, or we'll take away the one they got. Once again I ask the legislator, do not make laws just according to the measure of minorities that are concentrated in one part of the territory. That's also the problem for Serbs in Kosovo. It is a serious problem for Serbs in Kosovo living in small-scale municipalities, in border municipalities. So this election law encourages us to take longer paths, I'm talking about a period of 40, 50, maybe 60 years, maybe 60 years, to concentrate on one part of the territory, in order to exercise our electoral rights, rather than encourage them to integrate. In that direction goes my amendment, and if a solution is found that is being considered by the DSS representative and the SPS representative, we are certainly in this situation to withdraw this amendment. I'll talk about the whole article, so I don't mind the chairman, so I don't comment afterwards. It is important for us to take care of the representation of all the political parties that have achieved the coefficients you spoke of. So the ultimate question to be asked in the distribution of the last place in the congregation, and the criterion, should be the representation of all political parties or lists in the municipal assembly. Imagine that one minority gets through everything, eventually has the same ratio as the big party, and it's said – sorry, you can't, it's natural that large parties have more voters than minorities. So I would ask that we discuss this issue together at these consultations, possibly. And this is the final comment: I agree that the opinion of the Council of Europe is like this or something, but if the Constitution is clear, and it is clear, then I am primarily about the application of the Constitution in Serbia. The conclusions of the Council of Europe are only applied when they are in agreement with the Constitution, and the Constitution is applied always and regardless of matter. So we can't accept the argument of the type "you know, I've been told by experts at the Council of Europe that it doesn't exactly comply with European standards". We are working here under the Constitution of Serbia, and the conclusions of the Council of Europe, we must accept all these conventions, but at the moment we give less rights than is defined in those acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15368	Here you go. MP Rajko Baralic. The remaining SPS time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15369	Mr. President, as you can see, a large number of MPs have been involved in the debate on this amendment. So it's not just about which formula is better here, Nimeyer or Dontov, but it's about the government giving a really incoherent explanation and I really don't understand it. Does anyone even read what they write or sign? We can talk about election systems, there are different visions, I suggest colleagues to read Dr. Milan Jovanovic's book "Echoing Systems", so each of them can take what they want, but this is a simple matter. The amendment to Article 41, which was submitted by counterpart Milisav Petronijevic on behalf of the SPS, advocates, to say in simple Serbian language, that those lists that received more percentages in the local elections should not be favoured in this way from the so-called so-called elections. Several more seats are being cast. So, we advocate the principle that the votes of all parties that crossed the censorship, i.e. that their votes are 100 percent of the mandate and that, according to the percentages won on those lists, the mandates are divided by percentages, and that is the cleanest position. Those who have not passed the censorship have not qualified and have no one to be angry with. They're not in the game anymore. This is how we create a fake picture of citizens who voted for other lists... And in parliamentary elections, the same problem is that someone doesn't think I'm just criticizing him. So citizens who voted in favour of some lists that did not reach censorship against their will help the number of mandates to the parties behind the censorship, with them never being able to be represented by their interest which they have through passive voting rights. We here insist that the allocation of mandates is fully clearly defined, that there is no speculation in this, where in a municipality that has 70 councilors, or 50, however, there can be a dispute at most one mandate for a possible rounding. That's the end. Here at Dont's formula, practically, this could be extremely problematic. The explanation given by the government is completely contrary to what the intensity of the amendment was. I don't understand it at all. How is it possible to write the exact opposite of what was the request? It's the very essence of the problem. Col. Petronijevic asked for one thing; the government is responding to an argument that is completely the opposite of the one that should stand for why the amendment is being rejected. I don't understand that. Please, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, MPs read the law, write amendments, read all your amendments, read all the reports that come to the National Assembly, and don't expect us to do so in the future. We'll do it all the time. So, I remind you of the citizens, this session of the government is so-called The telephone, the ministers have adopted this set of laws on it. I don't know what a phone session is. I'd like someone to explain it to me. I understand when it burns, when it's a natural disaster, when it's a state of war, today is December 29th, we enter the last day of this session, we need to pass laws as quickly as possible, as we chose the government before midnight. This is serious stuff. The quality of these laws will depend on how we will run the election process, the candidacy process, how we will share mandates and what power four years in Serbia will be. This is not a question of whether a member of a law is changing because of some alignment with a convention. This is a set of the most serious laws in Serbia. Councilors who take over Serbia's majority exercise of power will control several billion euros over the next four years. So, with full seriousness and responsibility, we ask that you support this amendment, as well as some others, in order to correct the basic text of the law. One who writes an explanation must make sure that what someone writes wants to read. We assure you that we will read every act you send to the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15370	National MP Jovan Nesovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15371	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I won't be long. The amendment is similar, not to say identical, to the amendment of the MP from the SPS, Mr Petronijevic. And the explanation is exactly the same. If we will, gentlemen of the People's Messengers, to speak of righteousness and righteousness, then indeed this other system that is mentioned is the system of Nimajer, more just and just. Why is he more righteous and righteous? Because in the local parliament, you have exactly as many board members as you've won the percentage of votes. So that's quite clear. If we're going to favour big parties, which is also a democratic right, then you have this proposal as it is here. Indeed, it is quite clear here that this proposal favours large parties, i.e. those who receive more votes. Who's going to be damaged by this? I don't want to speak on either side, but the local political scene in Serbia is sometimes strange, sometimes uncertain. Therefore, after the local elections, we will see, after all, who will be unhappy with such a solution. In the light of why the amendment is not accepted, the proposed system also allows the application of so-called "the bill". the natural threshold for parties and coalitions of national minorities. I really don't want to criticize those who wrote this argument for any moment, but if the MPs want us to go to one justice and justice in the local elections, then either of these two amendments, Mr Petronivic or my amendment, that makes it possible. This other one favors big parties. So, in the voting day, and that'll probably be today, we'll give our opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15372	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The national MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton submitted together to Article 43 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Nesovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Radovan Radovanovic and Alexander Marton submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Nesovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, and since Minister Milan Markovic is not in the O.R., I conclude the search of the Bill on Local Elections, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CITY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the draft law: Željko Ivanji, Milisav Petronijević, Petar Cvetković, Srdjan Sajn, Ivan Andrić, Momir Marković, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Jorvanka Tabaković and Vlatko Ratković, as well as the amendment submitted by the Committee on Local Self-Government under Article 140 of Article 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have received reports from the Committee on Local Self-Government and Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15373	Mr. President, we are too correct in this National Assembly, because the least we can say is that it is unfair to treat different MPs in a different way. I don't think it makes any sense that the minister isn't present and that what we're saying is obvious that the time has passed, that we can't talk to anyone. Wasn't there enough reason for anyone else to report for a single amendment on the reasons why it should be accepted, for the minister to come and stand up if he really thinks so or not? What I'm saying right now is obviously I'm going to be talking for the public. So, on the agenda is the proposal for a law on the capital, which in Article 7 predicted that the statute of the city of Belgrade was closer to regulating the way in which the city's municipalities were educated and abolished, the change in their areas, the authorities and the choice of the city's authorities, as well as the mutual relationship between the city's authorities and the city's authorities. At first glance, an ordinary sentence, nothing special, but when we return to Article 6, we see that Belgrade is authorized to determine by the statute whether it will educate the municipality, how many municipalities it will educate, when it will be abolished and there are no restrictions. Also, Belgrade is competent to re-determin tasks from Belgrade's city-dominated municipalities without any criteria under the law. The law doesn't need to regulate everything, but I remind the public, the Law on Local Self-Government gives great authority to cities and municipalities of its jurisdiction. As far as Belgrade is concerned, these powers are even greater and concern: water, coastal protection, organisation and financing of water-related water-related activities, construction, reconstruction, maintenance and management of municipal and untegorised roads, streets, and state roads, except highways, municipal police, fire police and the possibility of establishing television and radio stations, newspapers and other means of public information. Before I return to the explanation of amendments to the SPS parliamentary group, I miss the minister here to ask him why all other cities do not have the right to establish television and radio stations, newspapers and other means of public intelligence? Why don't the municipalities have that right? I would like to remind you that the SPS parliamentary group has submitted a bill amending the Law on Broadcasting. That's denied. What's the situation now? We now have a situation that only Belgrade can establish television and radio stations and newspapers, and municipalities where national minorities are. Why can't cities have? Why can't Rajkov Chechak have one? Don't let me count on it. There's no minister. He's coming in, now he's going to answer. Of course, when it comes to Belgrade, I can't say at least one sentence about Studio B; it's a city public service and, of course, absolutely regime television, which is logical because the City Assembly is funding Studio B with about three million euros. Of which one million and a half euros to write only praises about the city's government and a million and a half euros not to allow the opposition to be present at all at Study B. So half or half of the funds are allocated. So, when you look at Belgrade's powers and powers, which are extremely large, Belgrade should have these powers, the resources are enormous... Do you know that Belgrade has a billion-euro budget? Do you know that the mayor has an allowance of a billion dinars, it's a famous current budget reserve that is in the jurisdiction of the mayor alone, and a whole series of other very important competencies. What was our reaction? I also see in the previous two amendments an attempt by MP Željko Ivanji to at least partially spread this, as I would say, that at least some rules are established. As it is written here means that Belgrade can organize 10 or 50 municipalities, there are no criteria. As it is written here, Belgrade will organise leadership to suit those in power. We have an example of Surcin Municipality. All honours to the Surcin Municipality, and there should be a politically organized municipality, 30 and a few thousand voters, but we have examples: the Danube Wreath, across the Danube coast, 150,000 people have been looking for years, but they can't get because they don't fit politics; the Publishing Area, Ripanj and all that; Žarkovo, Železnik etc. So there's a whole series of those that meet the criteria, but they can't come to terms politically so that the community will be left alone. So I repeat once again what is the essence – let the city establish municipalities, but let there be some criteria. The Law on Local Self-Government states what all one municipality can be. Why isn't at least one listed here? To avoid complications, we only ask that one word be added to that article – that the statutes of the city are arranged, in addition to ways, and some criteria, to know that this applies to more election mandates, and not only to the term of office when someone is in power. What else is the characteristic of Belgrade? The problem of undeveloped relations between the city - the city municipality, when it comes to jurisdiction. You have an example in the law on territorial organisation: the status of the city has every municipality that has over 100,000 inhabitants, and less than 100,000 if it is an economic, cultural, geographical center, etc., but certainly every municipality with more than 100,000 inhabitants. What situation do we have in Belgrade? We have a municipality of New Belgrade that has over 300,000 inhabitants, and has the authority of the local community, not to caricate. We didn't say anything here in this law – OK, let Belgrade handle it, but it has to follow some rules. We have an entire part of the city, New Belgrade, Zemun, which is on the left hand side of Sava, half a million people; these are two local communities, according to jurisdiction. Well, is it really hard to develop a few basic elements and say who can and can, what conditions it needs to meet to be a municipality? So both Zemun and New Belgrade can be special cities, in line with the law on territorial organisation, and another 10 such municipalities in Belgrade. Of course, it also needs to be taken care of that Belgrade is a unique city. Take Obrenovac – completely one whole, a city, for which you do not know what jurisdiction he can have. Not to mention, there's so much. Even New Belgrade and Zemun are one special continent, I mean nothing ugly, separate from Belgrade. How separate? Well, no one can cross into Belgrade over these two bridges we have, nor can it be done the other way around. Only bridges on maps, sketches, etc. are drawn in Belgrade, but none are made. I hear you're making a pontoon bridge now. There is a drawing bridge on Ada worth 150m euros, just three, as much as Belgrade needs; forty million needs for one bridge, two on the Sava, one on the Danube, which would connect the coast. We have it all drawn up, but we don't, the citizens of Belgrade can't cross over here, the old part of the city, and vice versa. Let me get back to this story. It is not acceptable for the law to give authority to regulate everything by statute without at least being told certain restrictive things, both from the point of view of size and from the point of view of jurisdiction etc. I warn, the statute of the city of Belgrade is authorized here to determine which authorities the city's municipality will have, and that means it can say – we don't want the assembly of the municipality, we don't want the president of the municipality, we don't want the municipal council to be formed, so we want to form advice chosen by citizens' choirs, for example. It is thus given the authority of the statutes that no limiting factors exist. Can this really solve these problems that exist in the city of Belgrade? Mr. Minister, you weren't present earlier. We've been discussing Article 41 for a very long time. Proposal for a law on local elections. Some have joined this, believing that the fairer proportionate system is in the mandate distribution, Nimajerov, rather than what was proposed. You haven't explained it to us. Now I'm giving you the chance, the explanation you gave, which has nothing to do with that amendment. Now, I'm asking what's the problem, what's the problem that one change can't be adopted where it's said -- statutes, all right, solve it, but there should be some criteria. In the end, one more question. The Law on Local Self-Government states that the president of the National Assembly is calling elections for municipalities, cities, therefore, for units of local self-government. I'm asking you, who's going to call the city council election in Belgrade? It is mentioned that the elections will be held in 120 days, it seems to me, at least 180 at most, but, as I understand President Dulic, they will be called tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I don't know when, mostly, they will be called. I ask who will call the elections for New Belgrade, for Zemun, for Chukarica, for Palilu and not to list all 17 municipalities in the city of Belgrade. So it's too little regulation for a big city like Belgrade. For these reasons, we believe that, of course by empowering Belgrade to regulate its own territory and everything else, there must be some limiting factors, some conditions, some criteria, both in the establishment of city municipalities and in the jurisdiction of these city municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15374	I thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15375	I asked who would call the elections for the Belgrade city municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15376	The President of the National Assembly, by the last act, and for the city councils. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15377	The public works, I want to say that I was at the SPS Parliament Club and that none of these criticisms were heard until yesterday on the Committee an amendment was adopted to increase from 5% to 7%. Now I've heard from Mr. Ivica Dacic, waiting for him to settle for that 7%, because of you and the PUPS, your potential coalition. In that sense, I think most of your criticisms had a purpose in spending time that way, at least that's what Mr. Ivica Dacic said. I want to say a few things. As far as Nimeyer's system is concerned, the government has established a bill like this. Dontt's system has been applied in Serbia all these years since the proportional system. It used to fit some party, and somebody else didn't. It used to fit the authorities, it used to suit the opposition. So, Dont's system has been applied to us at a republican level since '92. A year. Personally, I don't mind being Nimajer's system, the Democratic Party has absolutely no problem with that. But almost all parliamentary groups have been consulted during the creation of these laws. I think the issue of the electoral system and the issue of the allocation of mandate is a matter that is important to reach some consensus. If a consensus has been reached, I think it would be very ugly when voting on amendments to play someone we sat with and talked to, and something the government adopted. If the issue of Nimeyer's system was mentioned in those talks 15 days ago, by the authorised party representatives who participated in the talks, it would be fine. But it's not fair... So, I don't have, as a representative of one party, any problem whether it's Nimajer's or Dont's system; we're even more comfortable with Nimajer's system maybe. We really don't have any problem. Since some announcements are being heard here that voting could change the system of allocation of mandates, I am afraid that it would undermine very seriously the little trust that exists in this House and that I must say, and the merits of the president of the Assembly achieved in the previous period, and this trust that we have established in co-operation on making these laws between the ruling coalition parties and the opposition parties. I ask the MPs and parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition to bear in mind the consequences that may cause a decision to change the mandate-sharing system. Changing the mandate allocation system is not a joke. We've established some degree of trust, and we can't change something that's agreed in such a wide circle. First of all, I am saying this because I do not see the National Assembly working in the future if such changes are now being made. As for all the other changes that have been discussed here, which have come to light today, as far as I know, the President of the Assembly has made an effort to organise another round of consultations to address these other issues regarding raising censorships for political parties' coalitions, so these consultations will be when this debate is over. As far as the city of Belgrade is concerned, the question asked by Mr Petronijevic, I have been asking for ten years. We haven't heard anything new from you, Mr. Petronievich. We haven't heard anything new; the town hall isn't a unit of local self-government, we all know it. How much more do we try to restore the dignity of the city of Belgrade that was taken away by the 1995 changes, when the opposition first won, after defeating the opposition in some city municipalities, when exactly the party you belong to has come up with the local self-government itself and the city of Belgrade. We're trying to establish some kind of system. You can't expect us to change everything in six months, especially you can't expect us to change the Constitution by law. So, the Constitution literally says that the position of the city of Belgrade will be regulated by law and statute, and for the first time, the statute stands out. The constitution, unlike the 1990 Constitution, doesn't even mention the existence of city municipalities, but we thought, because of tradition, because of the fact that they exist, that they are large, that they have 150,000 inhabitants, that they have to be standardised. But there is always a new question: what is the right of this parliament, in which Belgrade MPs also sit, but there are many more MPs from other cities in Serbia, to arrange relations in Belgrade? Let the Belgraders do it in their elections and their representatives. We do not have the right to arrange how Palilu will treat his local community or the city of Belgrade to his Palilu. Let the city of Belgrade handle it. It's a solution from the previous law and the previous statute, it's now. As I from Belgrade do not intend to regulate the relationship between Nis and their municipality, also called Palilula, I think the Nislims are smart enough to handle it on their own, so I think the Belgraders are smart enough to handle these relations themselves. I think it would be best if there were a multi-stage decentralisation and in this respect Belgrade would be defined as one of the regions and city municipalities would get the status of units of local self-government. But it's constitutional matter, it's not the matter of the law we're talking about today. Here, let me inform you, there's no need to fight so hard to talk, Mr. Dacic told me he's coming in ten or fifteen minutes, then we'll solve all these problems. That's information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15378	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Petronivic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the word is Vladan Batic. Let me give you a heads-up notice: at 4:00, we'll have a meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups to resolve this problem that came up in the meantime. I shall also inform the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, if we happen to work until 6:00, we'll continue our work after 6:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15379	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I spoke today about my amendments. Do you really think I shouldn't talk about it? Secondly, I went out to respond to a political prank and to a lie presented by Mr. Minister. Mr. President, you may warn me, but find me another expression for that word. I don't care who's who or what's waiting. Mr. Minister, now you've brought it out here, let's say it's milder, the fact that we've fallen asleep, as you say, since the amendment of the Committee on Local Self-Government appeared. We have warned you of this amendment and its consequences. We have no intention of cutting veins for it. But don't deceive the Assembly, because the amendments to these laws I spoke of have been filed by 27, Mr. Minister, when there was no amendment to the Committee on Local Self-Government. You go out and say it with argument – when I finish this story and explain it to you, I'll move on to the political part, and then we'll burn ourselves. There's no problem, but don't deceive. Tell the Serbian citizens that the SPS and Milisav Petronijevic have submitted the 27th amendment on the day we had to read and endure them, and the Committee on Local Self-Government was last night. So, just for public reasons, nothing else. Don't deceive the public. What do you think about us and us and you, that's another question, you've known a long time ago. One more thing, don't deceive the public that the Constitution doesn't allow what we're looking for. The constitution says only in one sentence that it is governed by law and statute, that the capital is passed by law. Nowhere has he forbidden that a single word can be introduced into the law that the city can establish urban municipalities, but with certain criteria. Find out, explain to the public where this constitutional ban can't be like that. So we didn't ask you to write here I don't know what. One word - a way, and we say - and criteria, the statute must first determine it, not you, and you do not receive it either. Then you answer questions that aren't asked, and you don't answer questions that are asked. In the end, you mention Nimajer's system. G17 plus MP to the DSS, my colleagues and I only warned that this was fairer. You're now saying it would cause terrible consequences. What consequences? Then you say, "From the time of the world and the century, Dont's system." Tell me when the local election was about Dont's system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15380	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15381	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 200. The issue was addressed to Minister Dusan Petrovic and concerns the work of the Supreme Court of Serbia and concerns something I suggested to him, which is a constitutional basis, which is a re-election of all judges in Serbia. It's the only way to separate the grain from the weeds. In 2001, I tried to launch an initiative to resolve around 220 judges, including those listed in the Gonzales report; the day before, or a few days ago, was the anniversary of Gonzales' report. Those who participated in election theft continue to stand trial. A few of them have been adventurous, and today they're the presidents of the court. I welcome the efforts and initiatives of Dusan Petrovic to get rid of the judges, but you see the effects; there are no effects, as there were when I tried not to. In the case of Ilarion - nothing, in the case of Pahomia - nothing, even those warnings that were made by complaints were put ad act. So there's no responsibility, there's no coincidences, there's nothing. One of those judges... Why, first of all, did I answer? Because of the announcement that for the third time the verdict will be lifted to the murderers of the Ibar highway, that is what is speculated these days and that is the knife in the back of justice and justice. So, death squadrons, which under the auspices of the service sown death in Serbia, cannot be properly condemned because this service has its own components and in the Supreme Court. One of the judges who was in the Supreme Court in the Ilarion case and who was disproved and warned was also tried for the Ibar Highway in time. Is that an accident? He also pointed to him and associate Dejan Milenkovic Bagzi. He's finally retired and nothing to anyone. But let the Supreme Court rule, let him release the killers from the Ibar highway, but let him solve in a metric, not as pingpong balls, which continues. In the name of justice and justice, it must be decided because it has been going on for years, but it is suspicious everything in the country of Serbia, where the national enemy number one, the one who took part in the crime at the Ibari Masteral, the murder of Ivan Stambolic, the murder of Zoran Djindjic, came to an end in the word of murderers of the Zemun clan, remember that, magnificent and talks went to the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. So, the Ibar highway is a waterway, the Ibar highway is Rubicon – either it will be decided by those murderers or Serbia goes into anarchy and chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15382	I thank you, Mr. Batic. Your parliamentary question will be forwarded to the Minister of Justice. We're moving on. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, not to be misread by the Serbian Radical Party's position on these drafts of the law and according to the fact that Mr Milan Markovic did not sit here today most of the day, because it is common for SRS MPs to react first if the minister is not there, I must say that these proposals of the law, all four, as well as amendments, have been made since the beginning with the minister and with authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. I don't know if all the parliamentary groups were invited in this way and if they were involved. Yesterday we spent, before the Committee on Local Self-Government, three or four hours with the minister, with his associate (I don't know if he's a deputy or an assistant, I apologize), were colleagues from the DSS, the SPS, and every amendment we discussed in detail, each of us expressed his views. One of the amendments that we could not reach agreement on is the amendment that counterpart Momir Markovic submitted to Article 8. The proposal for a law where it proposed that Article 8 paragraph 2 point 5 be deleted. We still think, of course, that this amendment should be accepted and that's why I'm further explaining it. Article 8 speaks of the Belgrade city's competences, and in point 5, paragraph 2, provides that the city of Belgrade can establish television and radio stations, newspapers and other means of public communication. First, the position of the Serbian Radical Party, our programme view is that local self-government should not have their own votes in this sense, but that all of this should be privatised. It is, after all, contained in the Law on Broadcasting. This point of this Article 8 attitude is contrary to the Law on Broadcasting. You, Mr. Minister, have tried to explain why you think it should remain in this law, in essence, and have not had any valid explanation, and the Government has told us that this amendment does not accept because the solution contained in the bill is in accordance with Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That, of course, has nothing to do with the point. Article 50. Serbia's constitution speaks of freedom of the media. We are, by this amendment, in no way jeopardizing the freedom of the media. You, or the government, tried to find some explanation that seemed convincing to her, but it really wasn't. Exactly what the SPS colleagues said, and yesterday on the Committee on Local Self-Government of some colleagues, representatives of the ruling coalition, made remarks that the city of Belgrade is pushing against other units of local self-government. Even a few days ago, you all know, here in front of the Assembly (i.e. away from the President of Parliament) there was a group of Nish citizens who wanted Nis, that the low local self-government had its own television, or that it could establish it, etc. So, this is not only contrary to the Law on Broadcasting, but, if it remained in the law, it would indeed lead to an unequal position of the other local self-government unit in Serbia. I'm saying all of this not because I think Minister Markovic is going to change his mind, because we really discussed it a long time ago, including this, but because I'm trying to convince my fellow MPs. Regardless of the government's position, we as MPs can vote and vote to adopt this amendment. We're not going to disrupt anything in the concept of the law. The law will continue to be good, only better because it will not have an unconstitutional, or illegal provision. It would really be a shame, Mr. Minister, that a law that you've been working with us professionally and responsibly... If anyone thinks to apply to the Constitutional Court, this provision will be annulled. You don't need to spoil all your hard work and work with us because you have to... I know what it is, we all know what it is, it's Studio B and Dragan Gillas. It's just something that's true. I understand your party discipline, too, but try, you've really been working with MPs these days, too. The deal was from the beginning, and so we worked on these laws, to pass laws that would be valid for a few years, which would be laws that wouldn't interfere with either the authority or the opposition, that is, it doesn't matter. And when it comes to the change of government, no one will ever think of changing these laws, because they are really good laws, well done. Rise above that, or at least you fellow MPs, the merits of Dragan Gilas in your party, I don't want to go in and I don't want to talk about it at all now, but I will, for the sake of the public, say that we know what the problem is. Don't let one man make the law. We generally speak well of this law; even colleagues who have amendments that have not been adopted essentially have no major objections to the law, and in particular have no objections regarding communication with the Minister and the Ministry when making this law. Imagine, when after a month or three months he shows up in the paper that the Constitutional Court has annulled one of the provisions of this law, and here we've mostly said it's a good law, then the citizens will wonder if these MPs are doing well or not. I guess we all care that everyone in their voters, in all Serbian citizens, gives the impression of serious, responsible and professional people. Once again, I ask all of you MPs from all MPs, I think I have very clearly explained this member, that you are voting for the amendment of Momir Markovic that this law would be really good for us and that we have no problems in other local self-governments, that no other municipality in Serbia can ask us – what are you doing there in the National Assembly, just for Belgrade or for all of Serbia? We Serbian radicals work for all of Serbia, and so we stress that it is necessary for this amendment to be accepted. Minister, when you just spoke to your colleagues, Petronivic, you yourself said that MPs should not regulate relations within the city of Belgrade, because we are not only Members of the city of Belgrade, we are MPs of the Republic of Serbia. You said that well, but then confirm it by accepting this amendment. I don't know if you can do that, since the government refused the amendment, but you can agree with your party colleagues and colleagues from your ruling coalition to vote in favour of this amendment, that these laws really pass without stains and that they really are laws not only for this moment, but for a certain future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15384	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the SPS believes that any local self-government, the city of Belgrade, cities and provinces should have a public voice funded by citizens. With that in mind, we don't compromise with the possibility that the capital has a public service, and we're doing business with the fact that it has revenue from a TV subscription. If that's what anyone wanted to say, then we're against it. We are against the fact that only the city of Belgrade has its own media public service. We advocate that all municipalities in Serbia, if laws are passed today, cities in Serbia, local self-government have that right, because the Constitution gives the possibility, although the Law on Privatisation, or on Broadcasting, does not give that possibility and this member of the law is in colluding with two other laws, Mr. Minister. So, so much for that, you don't think we haven't read it. So we here need to say exactly what we want. This is where the Privatization Act was passed and the Broadcasting Law was passed. It is precisely regulated to privatise everything in Serbia, except for public enterprises which, as you know, will be privatised under special laws and this thing is completely clean. The Socialist Party of Serbia has tabled a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Broadcasting that requires, if the law is passed, to suspend the privatisation of all electronic media in Serbia. This is how it can turn out that they get the right, so you promised, minorities, or municipalities in which the minority population makes up the majority, or even where minorities live, we have nothing against it, and that right gets the city of Belgrade without everyone else having that right. Guys, I really don't understand you. So, I'll talk softer about Study B than my colleague, Milisav Petronijevic. I think Studio B should get a national frequency, not these three TVs that no one in Serbia is watching; tens of thousands of Serbian residents watch and have a frequency with national coverage. The programming scheme, the arrangement can be talked about, but there are almost two million people living here, and that thing is not controversial. So we can't support this amendment. As for the citizens of Nis who came a few days ago, these are citizens and representatives of the Nis media to whom the SPS provides full support, we received Mr Milutin Mrkonjic and I, but we provide full support to everyone else in Serbia not to privatise the electronic media, because there will be tycunisation in the media area, because then people will do with Serbia what they want, and this is what they are doing with these media that they have. As for the arguments you offered against the SPS, Mr Markovic, we reject them with indignity. So, did I understand that you're in favour of some electrical system, that in advance, who's going to do what, that the MPs under no circumstances can no longer submit amendments, and especially that they don't accidentally submit amendments before the Government submits their amendment? You explained that terribly well. It's not like that at all. You made us work till midnight that night, come here at nine o'clock in the morning and write amendments, and we won't be late for any law. It's no problem what time of night it is. So everyone you send, we each read, we each study and each we write the amendments. You don't have to argue with us because we've submitted the amendments. We'll put up with them in the future. Is that the same Democratic Party that submitted several thousand amendments to the Privatisation Act, several thousand to one law? Everything that's written in the Rules of Procedure is not prohibited. And if we stand for knightly arrangements, I agree with that, only that everyone respects all the elements of the Knighty Agreements. Otherwise, otherwise, we shouldn't be here. Let the heads of Parliament's groups agree with the president of the Assembly to change the law, they sit, they come, they pass the law and there's no need for us to lose these four years. I believe no one has such an honest desire. We'll do it in the future. And we're not wasting anyone's time, Mr. Markovic, we're wasting our time based on the Rules of Procedure that allowed us to speak 15 minutes by amendments, because it's a defined debate in the Constitutional Court, when it's said that's not possible. I remind you that DOS's men have smuggled out that Rules of Procedure, Natasa Micic and the company, that no one can answer for anything, that they can't come here, that they can't breathe, that they can't say anything else, that they can't take 70 mandates from other MPs, all this has happened here. We know exactly who we represent; we represent their interests, our political agenda, and it's not our job to praise the government, but to criticize it, and we do it by writing amendments and making an argument for amendments. If, Mr. Markovic, on account of our amendment, the amendment to Milisav Petronijevic, two representatives of the ruling coalition, and support him, I would imagine what kind of government it is for you. What are you talking about? You make a deal there, don't make a phone call when you hold sessions, but sit tight and talk to each other, but you don't, some of you run for presidents, some of you don't know what they're doing there... Don't criticize us for that. My job and our job is not to be anything but what we are, and everything else is courtesy outside this room and basic communication. In the end, I don't have any problem, Mr. Markovic, in Cacca you have the same boardman as the SPS; the DSS three times less, the G17 three times less, the SRS twice less, the SPO four times less and the NS four more than we do. I'm not afraid of five or ten or 17 or 20% in Chačka; that's not why I'm standing up for it. It doesn't make any sense to do that, to hold some sessions that are... That's your manners, by the way. When we write down good amendments, then you write down governments, and then you accept governments instead of ours. Some things like these go through like these, then you use the amendment that Zoran Angelkovic once proposed, so you accept that the Committee can accept the amendment, and then you change the essence of one member or one law. I won't answer today. I'm not here to piss anyone off. I'm here to do my job, that's what I'm gonna do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15386	I thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Lazarevic, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15387	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think that the discussion that Mrs. Radeta has opened requires that we pay attention to her, because she rightly paints something that might become a problem, which concerns the amendment submitted by Mr. Markovic, when it comes to the exemption of media privatisation in the capital, i.e. Belgrade. Just to remind the MPs – this time I try to influence them to think together in the same direction, to see what a solution is possible and what the consequences of one or another solution are – that the 2002 Broadcasting Law implies that all the media whose founder is local self-government are privatizing. We changed that law here in the National Assembly together, set a deadline, end of 2007. At the time, we said that it was good because local media would be freed from politics, editing in a political way, because we knew that the presidents of the municipalities and all those who in some way funded local media set up boards and directors and thus have a political impact on the profile of the local media. I think that was a good solution. We talked about the need to free local policy media, put them on the market, and the market only determines, and local self-government, if it wants, can allocate funds from the budget and thus pay the highest bidder among these local media and inform citizens about what local self-government is doing. That possibility existed. If this is adopted this way, then, firstly, it goes against the Law on Broadcasting, provided that what Mrs Radeta said is true that one of the media, this time in the city of Belgrade, will not be privatised. If he won't be privatised, the Broadcasting Law says his license will be withdrawn in three months, what is the technical time limit, if he entered the privatisation, in three months, in March we expect that television to be taken away from the frequency and work permit that was given. I expect that's what's going to happen, because that's what the Broadcasting Law predicted. If it doesn't, then there's no story of evenness of development, because we're putting the capital in an unequal position because we're separating it from the whole system. Why wouldn't Nis, well 33,000 citizens, say clearly with their signature that they want to have their own city service, why not Kragujevac, why can't all 20 cities and municipalities form their own local services? I don't see any reason. We also ask another question, namely, we have witnessed that minority representatives expressed concern and indicated the possibility that local services would not inform and inform in the languages of these minorities. They said then – don't worry, everything will be fine, you will have the opportunity to be informed in your languages, there will be no change, there will be a programming scheme as it was. We're leaving that possibility. Why don't we get them out of this privatisation, too? I'm afraid this could put the entire media privatisation system in danger of being destroyed because we're going to separate the capital from this whole story. This is a question for all MPs, for all of us. I'd like to hear an explanation, if possible, which would make it so. I wanted to open up some issues, and it's up to the MPs to think about this in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15388	Thank you, Mr. Lazarevich. The word is by MP Nikola Novakovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, over the three or four years I've been here, in both calls on the President of the Privatisation Committee, one thing has proved absolutely clear: every precedent in privatisation is terribly bad, causing terrible turbulence and enormous damage on all sides. It's that case that Pandora's box can't be discovered, because it's over. G17 Plus, through the amendment of MP Zeljko Ivanji, and by supporting Mr Markovic's amendment, made only one more step forward. So we agree that we should not allow and leave that precedent to the capital through point 5) of Article 8. We tried to elegantly tell Mr. Minister or Government that, instead of establishing television and radio stations, newspapers and other means of public information, it foresees the possibility of dealing with modernising, developing and improving communication with citizens through an electronic administration based on information technologies. Therefore, the introduction of an electronic administration would allow the availability of information on the Internet, the provision of communication-interactive services, the application of transaction-integration services, the development of telecommunications infrastructures, etc. Everything is very consistent, and everything is in the spirit of the strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia, which mentions precisely the electronic administration. The government once rejected this amendment – that the jobs listed are not within the city's jurisdiction. Not unless we predict them, but it can't be within the city's jurisdiction to set up television, newspapers, etc. It cannot be against those laws, the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Broadcasting. So, the call for a constitutional basis for the adoption of such a precedent will open, not reveal to us, will open Pandora's box and cause very harmful consequences for the existing services in Belgrade, and I suppose, if there is any establishment, through the procedure before the Constitutional Court and these services we will bring to this poor position. Therefore, with the full dimension and full capacity of the explanations given by Mrs Radeta and Mr Lazarevic, I am joining the appeal to reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15390	The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic, following this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15391	Dear Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't be talking about this subject very long. I said a lot the night before last in a debate in principle. I have to say that yesterday at the Assembly Committee on Local Self-Government, there was a partial word on this subject and that I said something that I would now briefly repeat. This precedent, which allows the city of Belgrade to be the founder of electronic and printed public messages, violates the principle of equality of Serbian citizens, as there is simply no legal explanation of how we will determine and defend the thesis and the fact that there are first and second-row citizens, i.e. those who can, through their local self-government units, have the right to, among other things, information through public service and on those who cannot do so. I must remind myself that she has just started the public and free-thinking process of Serbian citizens across the country, in the whole country, and that the right to free word and true information came from there, so I am asking the Government and the Minister of Resistance to reconsider whether it is worth making any precedent, especially as regards giving some greater opportunities to the city of Belgrade and the citizens of Belgrade compared to other Serbian citizens. With this, I do not want to advocate that their city television station "Studio B" be abolished in Belgrade, just asking that, based on the basic principle of equality, we also make it possible for other citizens across Serbia. I think there will be sufficient reasonableness in this House and MPs will support Mr Markovic's amendment. Or perhaps there is a procedural way that I am the minister to change the conceptual solution of the Law on Local Self-Government and to allow other local communities in Serbia... I made a constructive proposal yesterday, and also before yesterday, to allow two or more local self-governments, which have already been given the legal option of this bill before adoption, to join together to achieve the common interests of residents of these local self-governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15392	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 23. To make it clear to the public what this is about, I will briefly explain what Article 23, which is proposed by the legislator and what we propose to amend. Before that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Mr. Minister did not answer the question in which the Constitution prevents certain criteria from being established when cities determine the jurisdiction and way of establishing municipalities, as well as Belgrade. Of course, whenever there's no arguments, he runs away from the O.R. Here, I will instead read that attitude from the Constitution, and let the public judge for itself whether the Constitution prevents the law on the capital from establishing some basic criteria. Article 189 final position 5: "The position of the city of Belgrade, the capital of the Republic of Serbia, is governed by the law on the capital and the statute of the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has powers entrusted by the Constitution and by law to the municipality and the city, and the law on the capital gives it other powers. "I was just talking about it: and the powers it has under the Law on Local Self-Government, and the responsibilities that cities have and another five responsibilities that I have listed. So Minister Milan Markovic did not answer the question in which the constitution prevents the law on the capital from establishing some basic criteria. He said, "I fight for what you say, Mr. Petronievich. I don't know how many words you've said for ten years." You're a minister now. Who are you fighting now? Now why don't you regulate what you've been fighting for ten years? It's obvious from all that the minister leaves the O.R. whenever there are no arguments. Article 23 speaks of the mayor. This concept of the law on local elections and the law on the capital predicts that the mayor chooses the city's assembly from the council, in time... That I may not choose any further; then there may be a deputy. Now you have a third position: "The president of the city's assembly proposes a candidate for mayor. "If I didn't say I didn't even know who was proposing the president of the city's assembly, in Article 18, which says, "The president of the assembly is elected from the council, "for four years, "by a secret vote, "most of the votes of the total number of council members of the city. "On whose suggestion? There isn't. Such intervention was under the law on local elections that the president of the Assembly was elected on the proposal of one-third of the board. When it comes to the law on the capital, there is no, which means the president of the city's assembly sits down and says, "I'm going to suggest whoever comes to me, I don't have any obligation, I don't need the support of 10 committees, 20 committees, 30 committees, etc." In our best interest to contribute to the conclusion of this in accordance with the Constitutional Law, and it turns out that we are contributing to saving the ruling coalition from unwork for seven-eight months, we are making an amendment that does not completely disrupt any concept and the government says it is not being accepted. What did we suggest? Let it remain even if the president of the city's assembly proposes a candidate for mayor, but add another option – or one third of the council. We say, give the right and one-third of the council to suggest. Who will be chosen? He who has most in the congregation, however it may be. Here you completely excluded the right of opposition, offered by what was happening in Belgrade when you chose V.D. The mayor, so you didn't allow the opposition to propose their candidate, and then it was annulled, etc. So, what's a distraction, what's ruining the concept, what's costing, how much it hurts to adopt an amendment that says -- the president of the city's assembly proposes a mayoral candidate, or a third of the council. Of course, as we have so far, there is no Mr. Minister with whom we would argue. We remain to address the public and say that the essence of all these laws, and four very important system laws are passed in minutes to twelve, and so is the law on the capital, is that the opposition has no rights. Citizens, we'll see you later. They've just got no rights. So, only whoever is in power remains the emperor, remains the owner of Belgrade and can do whatever he wants and how he wants, because in this way and by law, he is allowed to do so. Article 29 states that the same mayor can be resolved on the proposal of one-third of the board. If it can be resolved on the proposal of one-third of the board, why can't it be elected, I guess it should be the same, on the proposal of one-third of the board? I repeat, of course, the one who has the majority will be chosen and the one who has the majority in the city's congregation will be resolved. But this is really an unacceptable relationship, vain, not to say ossion, and I know from experience that when power becomes so many ossions it leaves power very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15394	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djokic, I appreciate the day on which we are discussing amendments today and certainly your patience, and therefore I will not use the full amount of time provided for by the Rules of Procedure to explain the amendments. Although representatives of the Serbian Radical Party are heartily, as Serbian citizens do, by supporting Tomislav Nikolic's candidacy in the presidential elections, they have introduced all their knowledge and quality in order to enable Serbian citizens to conduct the following elections as best as possible, yet a number of shortcomings in this law are being subdued or taken place. I have submitted an amendment to Article 25 of the capital law on Section 2. Otherwise, the 25th member belongs to a group of members who regulate Belgrade's executive bodies. Article 25, 2nd, provides that candidates for city council members are to be proposed by the mayoral candidate. Mrs. Vjerica Radeta made remarks about the amendment to Article 45, which Mr. Zoran Krasic submitted to the law on local self-government, remarks on similar texts. We are not asking here to change something in a fundamental sense, therefore, still one who will be mayor of Belgrade has the right to propose candidates for members of the council, but it is necessary to be mayor rather than to propose candidates. Mr. Djokic, I don't know what your powers are, if you can pass it on to the minister, I will specifically refer you to the same member where attitude 5 says, "The city's mayoral council, on a proposal from the mayor, elects 13 members of the city council. "So, in view of the 5th of this article, you've put it in a good formula, but in attitude 2, a failure has been made. The government's explanation for why the amendment is not accepted states: "The proposed solution is not possible because the assembly decides at the same time on the choice of mayors, deputy mayors and city council members. "The Belgrade City Assembly does not have to decide at the same time, it can elect the first mayor, and then the mayor, rather than the mayor's candidate, to propose its deputy and propose members of the city council. Dear colleagues, I would like to convey to you the impressions of the citizens of Loznica, therefore, thanks to all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who will support the day of voting, which will be today, that Loznica enters the order of cities in Serbia; in addition to 23 other municipalities, Loznica will become a city. We think it's high time that not only declared, but essentially, the Lozniks return what is worthy of the people who live there. I must remind you that Loznica is around, and I mean Krupanj, Mali Zvornik and Ljubovija, perhaps one of the most beautiful, that someone is not found offended, or more beautiful parts of Serbia, and it is certainly necessary for Loznica to become a city and be one of the bearers of development in that area next to Drina, across from Republika Srpska. I think it's going to be of great importance. The password has personnel, it has all other potentials that can provide for what is provided for by the Law on Territorial Organization, and it could develop even faster, and it has been observed that since 2000 it has had a great stagnation and even a setback in development. A lot of jurisdiction from the Loznica has been transferred to other places (not to mention them), which I don't think is good. In the end, I would like to remind the citizens of Leskovec and the environment that they will spend the best time at 1800 hours in the Hall of Health in Leskovac, where a Serbian Radical Party presidential candidate appears. With all my heart for Tomislav Nikolic, the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15396	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Local Self-Government is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 26. At the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, the proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15397	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no minister to explain his explanation that he has given; I suppose today is a feature all day long. The amendment to Article 47, which is rejected, and the amendment to Article 45, which has been accepted, are similar. I want the public to know each other. Article 45 speaks of a people's initiative. The law on the capital says: "The forms of direct participation of citizens in achieving local self-government are: citizens' initiative, citizens' assembly and referendum. "When you look at the whole of the law, the direct statement of citizens is completely sealed. The opposition's rights are denied, whoever is in power remains to be emperor. Article 45 gave the possibility for citizens, through a citizens' initiative, to propose to the Assembly the adoption of acts from the municipality's jurisdiction, so it was said to be 10% of the total number of voters. When it's translated into Belgrade, it's 160,000. We said – people, so that one law in the Assembly could come to the agenda enough is 30,000 citizens of Serbia, and we are asking for one city, just to put it on the agenda, 160,000. It's pointless. Proposer says it's acceptable. Article 47 speaks of a referendum. We say again, since the referendum must be called if it requires 10% of the total number of voters, I translate to Belgrade again, that means if it requires 160,000 voters. We say -- people, so the Constitution says, in Article 108, that a referendum will be called for the entire territory of Serbia if 100,000 voters submit a request. So, a referendum for all of Serbia if it endures 100,000 voters, and for Belgrade it takes 160,000. Does that make any sense? Let's not reduce much, we say, at least rewrite it from the Constitution, so if 100,000 citizens need to call a referendum in Serbia, let 100,000 citizens need to call a referendum in Belgrade. He says, you can't accept it already, it could, it can't. And that and this is prescribed by the Constitution, nothing more. So, I repeat, as Serbian citizens have the opportunity to request a referendum, which the Assembly has to call, we are looking for the possibility that the same number of voters (even not smaller) may request a referendum in Belgrade rather than 160,000, as set out in the bill. I invite you to take a good look, think about it. There's no minister to tell me what's a distraction now that this can't be adopted. Since this is the last amendment that the SPS parliamentary group has put in, I just want to say a few more sentences in the end. The SPS parliamentary group has done everything to analyse four key system laws in these two days, according to the ruling majority that it is political violence that such four laws are considered and adopted in such a short time. We tried to contribute to the debate in principle and amendments and to point to all the wrong sides of the bill, all four. We have indicated, as an SPS parliamentary group, particularly parts of the law on local elections and the law on the capital, of course local self-government. We have indicated a great danger to the citizens of Serbia during the run. We've pointed out the state's concern for voters, because millions of citizens will be able to walk from overtier to overtier. We have pointed out the injustice of the mandate-sharing system. Unlike Mr. Minister, we used to use the force of arguments and he was responding to the argument of force, so he said that it was always such a system as he was now proposed. I asked him to publicly explain when such a system was now proposed for local elections. He didn't have to go far, here, with the current Law on Local Elections, which the existing majority in another composition in 2002 brought, where the now valid Nimajer system, i.e. a system of proportionate distribution of votes and committees, stands. That's what it says about the seriousness of our commitment to it and the inconclusion of the minister when he explains something and doesn't know what it is. So, we did everything to warn the candidate process, without questioning the need for the state to control, that the signatures must be correct, we even asked where there is a fake signature to rule out the party's election, because we had a situation in Belgrade when Covic signed Ivica Dacic with a counterfeit. We're not questioning that. The state needs to control, but don't harass a million Serbian citizens. We've done everything we can to point out all these failures. We have pointed out the gaps relating to the capital of Belgrade, where the biggest problem is that huge urban municipalities with the local community's competences, even, depending on the city, can not be that big. We've pointed out all these failures and done everything to get the best solutions in record time. The responsibility of Serbian citizens for the adoption of laws and amendments is on you, in the ruling coalition, because you have a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15398	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment of my party friend Misa Petronivic, which says the government does not care that this law has the essence, the core, the point of what the right of citizens to local self-government is. The right of citizens to local self-government is to manage public affairs at the level of local self-government, so that they can influence the quality of life. We have a situation here that in Belgrade, which has 1,700,000 inhabitants, there is a condition for holding a referendum of 10% - 170,000 signatures, so the proponent has made such a solution where he does not want a referendum. He just doesn't want a referendum. If he wanted a referendum, he could have freely accepted the amendment of his fellow Petronivic, as this figure of 100,000 voters and how it has its weight. Here are two very difficult conditions – 10% voters, 170, and 50% of those enrolled for the referendum to be valid. For us, and for other citizens who have taken care of local self-government, the amendment of counterpart Petronijevic and how it makes sense. After all, why does the Law on Local Self-Government have provisions relating to the forms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, if solutions are so tailored that they come down to form? If solutions are so tailored that they come together, then we do not need such a local self-government, but only a citizen who will vote for one political option, or for one political party, after the election of the committee and the committees will work in the assembly. So, it's very simple, two forms of citizen participation in the affairs of local self-government - through this way of selecting the councilors and through these forms of direct participation. In the law on local self-government, the legislator prescribed that these forms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government only have the character of one form. Dear fellow MPs, counterpart Milisav Petronijevic also mentioned other cases the Constitution also envisions, as the right for citizens to influence jobs both at local self-government level and at the republican level. You have seen, there are far lighter conditions for a referendum to be launched, and so on. This looks to me, no offense, to a kind of burning, as we had in the law, which is still valid, when the mayoral candidate needed 3% of the voter vote. We said it was abnormal, that it was abnormal, that the case works, for Belgrade, that the candidate should have 45,000 signatures in order to be a candidate, and that the candidate for the president of the country should have 10,000 signatures. That's insane. As much as you convince the promoter, the government's representative that it's abnormal, he's saying more and more - no, no, government it, government it. Then you can see that you're hitting a wall of misunderstanding, if you want to, and you don't understand the essence of local self-government. We've met that condition, like some other candidates. Then it turned out that there were prescriptions and that the list of people who support a candidate included people who are not alive, and in our case our current party president was listed as someone who supports another candidate. Simply, people used forgeries. To avoid opportunities for this kind of thing, and really allow citizens to participate in the affairs of local self-government, it would be logical that the biller put down this percentage of mandatory signatures or that he accepted the amendment of his fellow Petrovic. Because it only comes down to form. It's not just about Belgrade. Belgrade is an eclectic example, but this regularity that exists in Belgrade exists in other municipalities. You have different municipalities; for someone, a figure of five, ten, fifteen, thirty thousand may seem very large, but for the citizens of that area and how it has its weight. We thought it was good that there was one such amendment that nevertheless this right of citizens to direct participation in the affairs of local self-government can make it real. This way it's totally imaginary. Because if there's an initiative that breaks in, let me put it this way, about the Assembly's decision, watch out, for the People's Initiative, it also takes 10,000 signatures, the committees can simply say - we don't accept or accept. Mr. Minister, has the government changed its position on this? (Milan Markovic, from the scene: No. All right, it's time to ask. Since the government is changing views on some issues, it is my turn to ask, that I may not be wasting time on fellow MPs, there is not much left anyway. But it seems illogical not to create conditions to write. Otherwise, why would the citizens of Belgrade have formal rights that they cannot use? Why? Then you should simply say – okay, people, you will choose the committees, or political lists, the political party will choose the committees, and then they will do everything on your behalf, directly and indirectly, directly and indirectly and in various other ways. In any case, we think this amendment was very meaningful. For local self-government, it is bad that it is not accepted for citizens who participate in local self-government, and the government has, unfortunately, defined itself for such a concept that does not care about the essence of local self-government. That's why she didn't accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15400	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Vlatko Ratkovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) After we have completed the search, I give my word to Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government. Here you go, Mr. Minister, final word for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank all those who participated in today's debate. We have tried to accept the largest number of amendments, and that is to the satisfaction of all parliamentary groups. It is important that laws are governed by the system of local self-government, local self-government authorities, the choice of local self-government authorities, and, in the end, the way in which councils are elected by local self-government units. That's why it's important that we have as wide a consensus as possible on this. After this debate, we remain convinced that, as several speakers have already said, we will have laws that will last a little longer than we have practice when it comes to local self-government laws. Finally, I hope that as many MPs as possible will support these bill proposals, i.e. as little MPs will press the red button. I think this is the kind of work that we all had together when we passed these laws simply deserves the broad support of the MPs. Anyway, thanks again for everything we've done together. I would like to say that during 2008, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government will do everything possible to ensure that those provisions of the Law on Territorial Organization concerning the Borders of Local Self-Government Units are brought to life in the fullest sense and that we address those issues that are well-known and are related to settlements within local self-government units and to the borders of local self-government units. We'll hopefully be able to do it by the end of 2008. Thank you again for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-29-0.u15402	Thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank you for a very constructive approach. I'm concluding a review of the proposal for a law on the capital in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 29 December 2007 at 17.55 minutes as a voting day. Thank you. In an hour, we'll approach the vote. [[After break – 18:00]] In accordance with Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Territorial Organization of the Republic of Serbia Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I remind you that the National Assembly, acting in agreement with Article 105 paragraph 2 point 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, decides on this bill by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 133, against three, did not vote nine out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that at the session of the Committee on Local Self-Government of the Amendment, the MPs Alexander Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov to Article 10 and the MP Srdjan Shin to Article 16, and that they became an integral part of the bill's proposal to the MPs Alexander Marton, Radovan Radovanović and Aleksandra Jerkov to Article 8, with correction, and to Article 12 and amendment of the MP Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 32. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10 against 125, 12 of the 147 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 126, there were no 16 votes, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 124, there were 14 votes, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, v. 127, it did not vote 10 out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 124, 17 of the 150 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milena Stankovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 124, 17 of the 150 ambassadors present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted the 20th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 126, there were no 11 votes, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 126, there were no 16 votes, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted the 20th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 123, 19 of the 150 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted the 20th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 123, 19 of the 150 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 134, against three, it did not vote 13, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LOCAL Self-GOVERNMENT After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on local self-government in principle. For 132 against three, it did not vote 15 out of 150 ambassadors present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs of Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic at the session of the Committee on Local Self-Government withdrew the amendment to Article 21. It's a bill of law. Part of the Bill's draft became amendments of the People's MPs: Verice Radete to Article 8; Lasla Varge, Balinta Pastor and Elvira Kovac to Articles 22, 91, 93, 97 and 98; Aleksandra Martinović to Article 33; Vidojo Jovanovic to Articles 34 and 38; Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandra Marton and Radovan Radovanovic to Articles 38, 40, with correction, 56, with correction, 68 and 91; Vlatka Ratković to Article 103; and amendments of the Committee on Local Self-Government to Articles 20 and 79. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 122, 17 of the 149 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 118, he did not vote 21 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 124, 15 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 126, there was no vote of 16 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 105, he did not vote 21 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 123, there was no 18 vote, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 133, it did not vote 17 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 123, there was no 18 vote, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 124, 19 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 119, there was no vote of 23, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 37th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 121, there was no 18 vote, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 124, it was not 13 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39, MP Miletic Mihajlovic, the Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 123, 11 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 124, 19 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 52nd Amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 121, there was no 18 vote, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 125, there was no vote of 14, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 122, 17 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 121, there was no 18 vote, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 123, seven of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 121, 19 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 117, they did not vote 24 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 83rd Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 122, there was no 18 vote, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov, Aleksandar Marton and Radovan Radovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 122, 19 of the 150 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 86th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 124, 17 of the 150 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted the amendment to article 86. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 123, 19 of the 150 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 86 of the amendment was tabled by MPplatmir Stevic. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 125, it did not vote 13, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton submitted the amendment to Article 87. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 123, a abstentioned one, had not voted 17 out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted to the 88th Amendment. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 122, there was no 18 vote, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 88th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 120, they did not vote 22, out of 149 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 88a be added after article 88a. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 114, they did not vote 24 out of 149 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted to the 91st Amendment. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 122, there was no vote of 20, out of 149 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandar Marton and Aleksandra Jerkov. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 123, 17 of the 149 ambassadors did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 94th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10 against 125, it did not vote 19 out of 149 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of 102a be added after Article 102a. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 122, there was no 18 vote, out of 149 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on local self-government in general. For 131 against three, it did not vote 15 out of 149 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on local self-government. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Local Elections. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on local elections to the vote, in principle. For 133, it did not vote 17 out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Milisav Petrovic and Vido Jovanovic to Article 8, Vjerica Radete to Article 14, Veroljub Arsic to Article 19, Jovan Nesovic to Article 23, Bozidar Koprivica to Article 28, Milorad Buha to Article 34 and Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 62. I also remind you that MP Vladan Vukicevic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 18. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 126, there were 12 votes, out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 14 out of 150 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 124, it was not 13 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 124, eight of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 124, it was not 13 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 122, two abstentions, 12 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Nedimovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 114, two abstentions, were not voted 28 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 35th Amendment with corrections was submitted by MP Jovan Nesovic, who proposes to be in Article 35(2). The bill, as well as in all the other members, mentioning the word "wrap" in the corresponding drop, deletes and replaces the word "courage" in the corresponding decline, as well as amends the position of the 6th member. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Committee on Local Self-Government has not accepted the amendment with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with corrections, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 102, 26 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Local Self-Government is, on the basis of Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure, subject to amendment to Article 40. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against one, abstention 134, it did not vote 13, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 124, 15 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 119, 17 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Nesovic submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 102, there were no 28 votes, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 118, they did not vote 24 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 122, 16 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Nesovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 101, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Radovan Radovanovic and Aleksandar Marton. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 121, 17 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Nesovic to Article 49. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 103, 27 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft bill on local elections in general. For 133, against one, it did not vote 15 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on local elections. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GENERAL CITY Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on local elections to the vote, in principle. For 132, 17 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the People's MPs: Peter Cvetkovic to Article 8, Vjerice Radete to Article 13, Milisav Petronijevic to Article 28 and Article 46 and Vlatko Ratkovic to Article 54, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Local Self-Government to Article 26. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 101, 27 of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 99, 29 of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 123, it was not 13 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 114, two abstentions, were not voted 28 out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 43, abstention 21, they did not vote 82, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 119, 26 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 124, 19 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 124, 12 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, 30 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 113, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 34, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 116, 21 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Ivanji. The government and the Committee on Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 81, there was no vote of 50, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill of law on the capital in general. For 133, against two, it did not vote 13, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the capital. Since the session shows the injuries of the National Assembly’s servants, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. At a session held on December 29th, 2007 at 13.10 p.m., MP Zvonimir Stevic pointed to a violation of Article 87. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For seven, against 119, two abstentions, nine of the 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. I wish you all happy New Year's and Christmas holidays, a lot of health and happiness, and thank you so much for working properly this year.
