ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7563	There is no doubt that we will all agree that corruption is one of the important issues not only in societies such as ours, in transition, but in the modern world in general. The Democratic Party also paid considerable attention to this at the time of the opposition and when it was in the government. I'll just give you a few examples that will illustrate it. In 1994, we submitted in this assembly a bill to establish a new institution of the special state prosecutor, and in an explanation, we made it very clear that this is necessary for organised crime at the heart of the state, that it is he who generates the whole crisis and that it is therefore necessary to establish such an institution that will be able to do one important job in an independent capacity throughout the judicial complex. The second fact, since yesterday, although there is a custom in our people to not talk about the dead that way, has dragged all this through the mud, not to mention that it was Zoran Djindjic in the 2000 campaign that pointed out that there is no state without the mafia, but Serbia is the only state in which the mafia has its own state. And with that political platform, we won, knowing that it's important to do so. What did this government do? In the first three years, only by stopping smuggling in the tobacco and oil sphere has several billion euros come into the state register. Whoever of the MPs suspects that, ask the government a question and get exact information about it. When did that tobacco and oil money actually spill into private pockets? It went off in '97, '98, '99. and 2000, and who we know then. Instead of taking responsibility for billions of euros going into private pockets, they are now attacking the one who stopped it and put it into the state register. It's a classic replacement thesis. Regardless of what we're doing here with a political point of view, which, in my opinion, has certain demagogy sounds, not fact, I want to clearly underline some things. Serbia must not be untouchable when it comes to the subject, regardless of who it is. But we listened very well to the 2003 campaign, where it was said I don't know what not, and then there were also mentioned many who were... Four and a half years have passed since then, gentlemen, can any of that be realistic? When it comes to this famous Smeder, let's be real people here. Our attitude has always been very clear. Nine thousand people work in this Smederev, with an average salary of nearly 30,000 dinars. It is one of the largest exporters in Serbia. We, as Democrats, continue to say - if anyone in that privatisation has done something, the judicial authorities, and answer. There's no dilemma, but don't attack what turned out to be extraordinary, just that privatisation. Not to mention a number of other examples that have been here. In the end, the late prime minister was during the opposition, for exposure from this pay phone and assault on the so-called. The government's grain affair, sentenced to six months in prison. Mr. Todorovic, you will have a chance to speak very well of it. [[Employer Dragan Todorovic throws out of place, but you can't hear it.]] If it wasn't for a man who couldn't defend himself, I'd never get out here. Everything else is available to critics and questionings, but in this way, with cynicism, to speak of a man who has indeed paved the way for a modern and democratic Serbia, he has succeeded... Then no wonder those whose millions of euros were thrown out of their pockets, with a clear sign that it was poured into the state register, and thus created a huge number of enemies in this Serbia, because they learned about lawlessness, the robbery, and it was then stopped... Just one more sentence. What's the key thing, we weren't chasing witches back then, we were changing the system to establish legal standards that would make it impossible for people to do what they did before, because in every system, those who are criminal will find themselves prone to corruption. So we need a system that will provide as effective as possible in the judiciary and in the legal system as possible to have a state that should look like those in the environment or that we are seeking. I am not satisfied with the fight against corruption in Serbia. To be clear, it's a big monster that we all have to be against. I've listed a few measures that have been made. When you ruled for three years, you didn't do it, but you either shared money with those who took or were responsible for not chasing them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7564	Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not your turn. Before we go any further to the Rules of Procedure, I need to read the notice. You have received a request from the Democratic Party that the death of the People's MP, Nenad Bogdanovic, and a report from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this request, which found that the death of the National MP, Nenad Bogdanovic, brought the case under Article 88 paragraph 8 of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and (3), determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (8) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the date of death ended before the election of the time to which Deputy Prime Minister Nenada Bogdanovic, elected from the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic, was elected. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. According to the Rules of Procedure, we have the following reports: MP Zorica Kovacevic, then Rajko Baralić, Dragan Todorovic, and Zarko Obradovic. Here you are, MP Zorica Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7565	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we New Serbia MPs are asking for an explanation from the minister for the work and employment of Mr Rasim Ljajic on the case that took place in the municipality of Knic. Namely, against the president of the municipality of Knić, Mrs. Snezana Bankovic, who is on maternity leave, a procedure for the resolution was initiated by ten council members of the Knić municipality and the only reason it was just leaving for maternity leave. We often talk from this place about concepts and their meaning by forgetting that people and their individual fates are behind these concepts and that these same people expect us to see the problem and find a solution that would lead to security. That man waiting is expecting help. I look back, led by this expectation, for example, a woman who gets out of a job position because she's decided to become a mother. I guess a group of ten committee members decided that one role automatically cancels another, or that a woman should perform only those roles that were intended for her in the original community. Either way, the woman found herself in a position to humbly explain her position and defend her mother's right to decisions, raised hands and a group of ten committee members who are guided by different interests. We New Serbia's MPs ask if it is a sin to be a mother, should Mrs. Snezana Bankovic be punished for having a child and is this a way to solve the problem of the white plague that is present in Serbia? Is the moment a woman stops being a percentage of her should be returned to the labour market? And then why talk about gender equality, if she's only respected on paper? Is it possible in this country to deny Serbia in the most brutal way by a group of ten committees by the Constitution a guaranteed right, or two rights, and this: the right to work and gender equality? Does every woman in the country of Serbia today know that she will become a mother to fear for all the social consequences she will face because of the fact that she will become a mother? Isn't it perfectly natural that a woman who gives birth can work, not suffer; anxiety can turn into fear, and that will keep us away from civilized society. And, let's not forget: the man waiting for help, and Mrs. Snezana Bankovic is just looking for her rights, with the Constitution guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7566	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7567	Mr. Chairman, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure. I'm very supportive of what my colleague Zorica was talking about. That's not why I answered. I answered because Minister Mladjan Dinkic gave me a rude answer to the parliamentary question, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have to remind you of what I asked and what he answered me. Since he normally made statements that parliament was guilty of doing nothing, I asked a while ago: what legislative proposals did the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy send to parliament without Parliament considering them? That was my question. Mr Dinkic replied: In accordance with article 190. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I give the following answer - by provision of Article 107(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has established the right to propose laws, other regulations and general acts. Then he says that it is the right of the MPs, the Government, the assembly of AP and 30,000 voters; he still thinks and says: from the outcast (i.e. It is my question that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development does not have the right to propose laws, other regulations and general acts to the National Assembly. This man is confused, he doesn't know what this is about. I didn't ask that at all, and it's not his to associate, he needs to answer exactly what laws he filed without us considering. He either doesn't have the ability to reason logically, or he doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, or one of the 18 State Secretarys is giving him bad advice. So, I repeat the question to Minister Mladjan Dinkic: what legislative proposals his ministry sent to this parliament for consideration, and that parliament did not consider it, and why this parliament slowed down his ministry and the ministry of his colleagues, since otherwise what he answered was a lie. And this session, I'm sorry, I'll put it in a colloquial language, you've concluded by 32 points of whatever, different, inferred... (President: Mr. Baralic, nothing has been concluded here. Don't say those terms. Everyone in Serbia understands exactly what I'm talking about. So there are no legal proposals, no new laws, no none of what you promised in the campaign, but he continues to act as if Parliament did not exist and as if the executive power is a superior branch of government and everything seems to prove that executive power has a supremacy over the legislative authority. I repeat the question to Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and ask him to answer precisely - which we slowed down his work, which legal projects did he direct without us considering? I'm asking him to hire a few other state secretaries, if he had 26 of them, to give him precise advice that he can't write like this. So it's not the first time Mr. Mladjan Dinkic has communicated in this way with the MPs. Mr Albianic, I ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to forward to Mr Mladjan Dinkic my parliamentary question and to draw attention to him for not communicating with the MPs in a rude manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7568	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really thank Mr. Slobodan Gavrilovic for coming out to replicate. It would be best for you not to be defended by Slobodan Gavrilovic, but what to do. He did what he did, and I will now show you that Slobodan Gavrilovic deceived you, as well as the citizens of Serbia. Because there is a simple thing that Slobodan Gavrilovic should know; in 1994 she was not so far away and he well knows what was going on in the Democratic Party back then. He knows about the letter sent by the leaders of the Democratic Party. You heard it, but you need to hear it again. It's about Zoran Djindjic. Since there isn't much time here, I'm just going to take out some parts of that letter to light up the character and the work of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7570	Mr. Todorovic, yesterday I warned you not to treat us like this in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7571	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your position, but please allow me to speak as you allowed Free Gavrilovic. Don't be nervous. You know what awaits you all. If the Democratic Party were counting on Slobodan Gavrilovic, he wouldn't be sitting in the back row. He used to sit in the first. It'd be better if I had a bite of this paycheck, a cobweb, etcetera, but, I mean, we're right where we are. In 1994, a letter was launched within the Democratic Party, related to the actions of Zoran Djindjic. The letter, among other things, was signed by your current President Boris Tadic and your current member of the political council, Dragoljub Micunovic, and not to list the names of twenty people, the founder of the DS, who signed it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7572	Mr. Todorovic, please respond to which member of the Rules of Procedure you have reached.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7573	226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7574	Who are you asking?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7575	I'd better tell you 226, than 242, like Batic told you yesterday. I, Mr. Gavrilovic, invite you personally, and here I call from Boris Tadic and Dragoljub Micunovic to come out for this pay phone and say that everything they said and wrote about Zoran Djindjic is being withdrawn and that it is not true. I'll just tell you some things, the more... No, you're wrong, I've watched the time of Slobodan Gavrilovic and you've interrupted me, but don't forget one thing, I've got 20 minutes as deputy head of Parliament on this point that's about corruption. I'm going to read you all this nice-looking stuff so you can remember. Mr. Gavrilovic, if Boris Tadic publicly gives up what he signed, and Dragoljub Micunovic, I will apologize to the Democratic Party for the possible insinuation and association of Zoran Djindjic with all cases of crime directly involving the people of Zoran Djindjic, who, among other things, was in 2000, because this is the beginning of corruption within the DS and the gathering of people... Here's what it says – Djindjic's main focus in this campaign has become people who are otherwise in a dependent material position by him, because he directly, and by his criteria, pays them to work in the secretariat. Some of them, like Goran Vesic (it seems to me that I mentioned him yesterday), spread their intrigues, and each time he delivers different information by means of information, out of which a small part of the public and most of it off the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7576	Mr. Todorovic, you need to finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7577	He says, attacking a sharp fortune in these chaotic conditions, Zoran Djindjic mentions an outflow...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7578	Mr. Todorovic, you need to finish your exposure after 5.5 minutes. Let's not discuss how DS has membership fees. Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm reporting under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225, 104, 103 and 100. Mr. Gavrilovic mentioned some things about DS attitudes and their fight against corruption. Mr. Gavrilovic says what he believes. However, the facts are completely different and devastating and should be mentioned and can't be crossed objectively over these things. Namely, no one can dispute, fellow MPs, that corruption was in Serbia and the 1990s, as it was before and after the 1990s. The fact is that there was an eruption of corruption in Serbia after 2000, i.e. in 2001, when the DOS government took over Serbia's governance. It's not just the socialist attitude, it's the attitude and those DOS people who ran the campaign together. Please create working conditions for me. (Chairman: Please, a little attention. Here you go, Mr. Beard. ) We have listened to this story about tobacco and smuggling for years, but there is one thing that completely opens this story to the end. For the forgetful and those who were not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or slept through that one period, the DSS launched an initiative in this assembly several years ago to form a polling committee to determine all facts related to tobacco smuggling in the 1990s. I must tell you that this initiative was supported by the SPS parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group, everyone else didn't want to. Judge for yourself what the motives are for that. As for Smederev, you, Mr. Gavrilovic, can declare this the business of the century, it is your right, but the fact is that Sartid is sold for $23 million, and the Economic Institute has found 55. The fact is that it is excluded from the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Commerce in Smederev and has been transferred to the Commercial Court in Belgrade. The fact is that it went directly to eliminate all other customers. The fact is, he was forgiven from 583 million to a billion and 700 million. The fact is that twice as many iron mills in Ukraine have been sold six times as expensive. The fact is, the ambassador to America said that $10 million stands somewhere. That, Mr. Gavrilovich, is the questions you have to answer sooner or later. The fact is that both governments were involved in the job in 2003, and the minister of economy and privatisation, and the chief of cabinets, and his best man who was chairman of the Management Board. That's the facts. If you don't believe me, read the report of the Anti-Corruption Council, which you set up, and then go out and talk about Smederev as the business of the decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7580	The People's Messenger has the Word of the Prophet, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the Messenger of the people of Nada Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7581	Mr Albianic, let me read to you Article 1 225's view that you are no longer causing any trouble to the MPs who are coming out of this article: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. "I, as a MP, cannot do my job well enough unless I hear everything Mr. Dragan Todorovic wants to tell me as a MP from this pay phone. That's right. Mr. Albianic, where did you get the moral right that when Mr. Todorovic mentioned the name Zoran Djindjic, you say - don't treat dead people like that. Aren't you the one who waved balloons on the day of Mr. Milosevic's funeral? Can Mr. Milosevic answer what you say about him? Shame and shame. As for the crime of the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, you know, you have to make peace with one fact: Zoran Djindjic was a public figure, a official, Prime Minister, and such people must be spoken of after their death, and what anyone has to say... And I remember that I was disgusted by the immorality of DS members at the time Zoran Djindjic died and when only three days after his death you chose a new prime minister and when you kissed and hugged and congratulated here. Believe me, it was terrible for me as a man to see a scene like that. So much for your morale. After all, Djindjic taught you the one to whom he must go to church. You gentlemen cannot hide from the citizens of Serbia... You can still go to some of the judges in drawers, but you cannot hide from the citizens of Serbia "the affair of the airport", nor Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, Janjusevic and Kolesar, nor Popovac cementar, nor the tobacco mafia, whose boss was with Canet Zappac and Zoran Djindjic, and that is a public secret. The Serbian Radical Party and Vojislav Seselj have long published a book in which all details related to the mafia have been presented. That's the facts. That's what Serbian citizens know. You who detest, some of you may think it's really not true, some of you are wrong that you missed that time, which you may have a little bit of got compared to those who got a lot more. After all, we read daily in the newspaper of Mother Zoran Djindjic's statement that says... (President: Time.) I'm finishing up, Mr. Albianic... That she doesn't know what property that's left behind Zoran Djindjic and she's telling the public -- ask Ruzica, she knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7582	I think you've gone too far, Mrs. Radeta, and that's how you can't treat yourself from the National Assembly's pay phone. There's a word from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7583	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we understand this is a political struggle. It is a political struggle against a group that bears responsibility for the country's terrible deaths. He bears responsibility for the results that this country has brought back, bearing responsibility for thousands of miles of lost territory, bearing responsibility for hundreds of thousands of exiled homeless people who have found refuge in this country or around the world, bearing responsibility for inflation that the world has never heard of before, bearing responsibility for the shame of the shameless impoverishment of the population as it was also unknown in the world, bearing responsibility for the robbery called the pyramidal banks, bearing responsibility for the shame that every man in this country experienced when he went out and had to say from which country. [[Applause]] So we're talking about a conflict between a policy that bears responsibility for it and the policy that brought the country back to the world, giving it back to her respect, giving it back to her allies. Let's not forget, no single ally ever had that country back then. We are talking about a policy that is ready to modernise Serbia, turn Serbia into a modern, modern, economically developed, internationally recognised country, in which people will live better. There's one more thing to mention. It is a policy that has driven Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija through a capitulant agreement in Kumanov; it is a policy that now threatens those who are trying to repair such a desperate result that they will bring the country back to isolation again, that the country will fight again with the whole world, that it will humiliate the citizens again, that it will drive them back to poverty, that it will drive them back into frustration from which they can hardly get out again. When these two policies conflict, then this policy that has no answer to its results, because it cannot have it, tries to disqualify those who have changed that country's fate. It's completely comical to attack a man who has entered the history of this country on the weaknesses he may have had as a man, on the weaknesses of the people who may have surrounded him, on what we insist everyone fits. So we're the first to seek the responsibility of anyone who has sinned against the law, but to attack a man who had a vision of a country, who dedicated his life to her, but also a literal life, after all, and the fate of his family, means only that there's no argument. The only argument is trying to make it worse here, so that the policy you've been running seems less scary. So the intention to create chaos in this country and bring this country back again is actually an attempt to find an alibi for a tragic and unfortunate policy that has led Serbia to ruin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7584	Before we go any further, I need to read your notice, because we had a problem with it yesterday. So, the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, all MPs received the following notice. Under the regular number 03.335-3020/07, the government submitted a bill to the National Assembly confirming the International Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of India. With this in mind, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly's representative, while considering this bill, is appointed by Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure... We won, but yesterday we had an argument for over an hour and a half, so please know that. According to Business, MP Dragan Vujadinovic, then MP Dragan Todorovic, then MP Dr Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7585	Dear gentlemen, Article 226. Rules of Procedure, and I'll ask questions at the end of the discussion. So, regardless of the aggression and whatever the performance, the rest are facts, the other are numbers, no one can fight them. These figures say simply and simply that in the last decade of the 20th century and the second millennium, we have had total economic depression, such as an earthquake, when we came from a convincing first place among all the countries of Southeast Europe to the last place, with no perspective, with no future. That's what happened, gentlemen, in the last decade of the 20th century. In that year, the average salary in Serbia was 50 euros, the average pension of 40 euros, national income per capita of $1,200, gross social product and other categories at 33% compared to 1989. Those are the facts, gentlemen. These facts have placed us in the last place of the ranking in Europe, i.e. among all the countries of Southeast Europe. Today, these salaries and pensions, no matter how happy they are with the growth of gross social product and all other categories, are 340 euros and the social gross product is 24 billion euros or 4,600 euros per capita. Gentlemen, October 5th happened precisely because of these facts, because we came to a third of our standard of 2000. These are central facts in our economy and in our social life. I ask the question and my question is quite simple, and it is addressed to the Ministry of Justice: who was responsible and how much has been condemned for everything that happened in that last decade of the 20th century since 1990, when we were first, until 2000, when we became the last in the environment? Otherwise, no one has an alibi for corruption. Go ahead, sue, judge everyone. But first of all, you have to give an answer as to who was responsible for what happened in that last decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7586	The word has a People's MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, MPs of the Democratic Party, all this is not said by Dragan Todorovic, but I read to you what Boris Tadic signed, Dragoljub Micunovic, and not to list the names of members of the Democratic Party who signed all of this in 1994, related to Zoran Djindjic. I'm going to read this slowly in the time I have as head of Parliament. But to answer some questions raised here by Mrs. Hope Kolundji about the responsibility for what has happened to our country since 1990 and so on. Responsibilities, Mrs. Kolundjia, bear to the most extent the party that led this country until 1990, since 1990, as the SPS, the Communist Party that you belonged to, Mrs. Kolundjia. Yes, you were, and you bear part of the responsibility, as is borne by anyone who was part of the establishment, or belonged to that party. Later, Mrs Kolundzija, you went to Nebojska Covic for the Democratic Alternative; the famous Democrats, until 1997, the most famous Democrats in Serbia. Therefore, you bear an extremely great responsibility for everything that has happened in this country and you bear responsibility because you are a member of the Democratic Party, because you mean membership as part of the benefits you have, not ideologies. That's the basic difference between you and us. Let me inform you, Mrs. Kolundzija, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, it is true that we were from 1998 to 2000, but, as your MP here said, why in these seven years you are not all, including us, if it is true and if there is any act or act that is punishable under the law, called for responsibility, why in these seven years have they not responded? The problem is, Mrs. Kolundji, as far as the SRS is concerned, you have nothing, absolutely nothing for any single radical. And for you here, we're taxing, we're listing what you've done and how you've ruined the country. That's the problem you faced as a party, and that's why Boris Tadic started cleaning up all the people around Zoran Djindjic, because he was fully aware that they were the most responsible for everything that was done in the country. (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic. We don't mind. It's your internal affairs, but the problem is that no one has ever answered for it, as no one has ever answered for the period until 2000. If there is, it has to be answered. I ask the question - who has been in power since 1996 in Belgrade? The Democratic Party and the SPO; then the SPO became involved with the Socialists, so he expelled you, only Djindjic expelled, but left a large number of you in the administration, in the services. Remember how you promised in 2001 to clear 760 apartments divided by the City Hall? (President: Mr. Todorovic, please finish, time. Not a single radical. Why didn't you clear it up? When you start messing around, you just turn out to be members of the DS. Why don't you do it now? You talk to someone about crime and corruption? You then named it in 1994, but failed to fight Zoran Djindjic, because you named him within the Democratic Party as the most responsible for destroying the DS, turning DS into a leader's party, abuse of positions, misuse of financial flows within the Democratic Party. It's all in here, gentlemen, writing to you. Again, I invite Dragoljub Micunovic to come down and say this is not true, that he withdraws everything he has said. I also invite Boris Tadic to withdraw everything he signed. Then I will accept that what you wrote about Zoran Djindjic is incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7588	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, that we fully understand this stream of ugly words spoken by Mrs. Kolundji. We understand, because when someone changes parties then he has to prove to himself and others that he's been in error before, and that he's much better now, that, as the people would say, he's a greater Catholic than the Pope. It would be fair, regardless of what I disagree with, to talk about the 1990s and as years when UN sanctions were imposed, unfairly, you know, when there was a civil war in the environment, when we received a million refugees, when NATO bombed us and when former members of the opposition, the current authorities, had a hard time breaking down at that difficult time. They had to go to other countries all over the world and speak uglyly of their country, to shock it, to tell the truth. They had to even take money for it, poor thing. They had to take the money. They had little to do with it, but at the time of the bombing, they asked to continue the bombing. They lectured in Germany to justify NATO's aggression against their country. They did. This was published by the NIN on 18 March 2003, and none of you were allowed to deny it here when I said - you lectured on NATO aggression, that Serbia should be bombed yet, it is small, Milosevic and the Serb people deserve to be bombed. Poor people, what are you going to do, get your hands on the authorities and fill your pockets? It's hard, Mr. Vujadinovic, to talk about facts. You're absolutely right. I asked six direct questions, brought up the facts. Answer the facts and say, in the 1990s, that and that, the pension was 85% of the average personal income, and now it's 53. Tell me why this is a democratic time. Don't forget, it's 2007, and there's no sanctions, no isolation, no aggression, and there's not everything that happened in the 1990s. Mrs. Kolundzija, ask your president, Mr. Tadic, which is a document on which we are based our views on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. So when you get that answer, if you have any courage, come out and say, yes, gentlemen of the Parliament, it's Resolution 1244, which we talked about so badly. Try to determine whether it was bad or not at that time, so come out and tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7590	The People's Messenger Paja Momcilov, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Momir Marković, and the People's Messenger Vjerica Radet, then Zdravko Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard one go here... In accordance with Article 104. At the same time, you can understand that this is also a replica of what Mrs. Kolundji said. It's got replicas. Will you stop throwing around the Rules of Procedure? There's no throwing it out of the bench. We've heard one ode about the current government here, and it's from Mrs. Kolundjia, who can also be nice here to deliver two different proposals seductive on the same date. What I'm showing right now is the spirit of Bodrum. The Spirit of Bodrum did not come out of this congregation, and forgeries. When someone used the term here as a final agenda, he reacted to the chairman. Please, look now at what you have given us as government authority again, see what the representative here is now authorized for, Mr. Rasim Ljajic. You'll see he's not authorized only for what he's competent to do. Read this. Where's the Social Security Act with Montenegro? There isn't. All this gives MPs the right to say it's a crucial agenda. All I'm saying is, in response to this otto being sung by Mrs. Kolundji to the current government, one quote. The Slovenian newspaper "Finans" publishes a comment entitled "Radical Destroying of Serbia", in 2006, to make it clear immediately when this is announced, says: "Democratic forces have spent their energy based on corruption wealth and petty quarrels, and despite the booming corruption, none of the corruption affairs have received a judicial epilogue, because among democratic forces there is agreement that, because everyone steals and violates the law, no one is sent to prison. "Please, this is not what the radical said. Now I'm going to say who said this, this is what a professor of public elections and European studies in Belgrade said, and he's asking if Slovenia, as one of the five biggest investors, should fear for investments in Serbia. That's your picture. Even nicer picture of you is given in this book, and it's called "The Game of Shadows." Mrs. Kolundjia, read it. No one has characterized you better in one sentence -- it would not be easier to put together that low-coach quarrels and theatre egomaniacs, said this Mr. Tim Marshall. To see just now the way it all worked, and we'll give you a detailed explanation, says Mr. Marshall... Just what they were throwing at me, I apologize, Mr. Chairman, but I quote and beg you to refuse me, now I'm going to read another quote - bags of money have been brought into the country for years, served corruption. You still can't live without corruption. That's your picture. We will prove it to you in the debate on this law, from 2000 to 2007 what was happening, and here is Mr. Prime Minister's agreement with the climate of the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7592	The People's Messenger, Verica Radet, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the DOS, I must remind you of some important facts. Mr. Millyvoy, go ahead and come out here, if you have anything to say. Unfortunately, you have nothing to say, and as much information as I have, you are forbidden to go out, not to embarrass the DS. That's why I'm calling you out for a little bit. (President: Mrs. Radeta, please don't speak up like that. ) Mr. Albianic, first of all you should have warned a colleague who went to the first bench, thinking he was going to confuse one of the Serbian radicals, sat down in the minister's seat and cast very loudly. You did not warn him, and you warn me of my answer to him. So, gentlemen of the DOS... One more thing, Mr. Albianic, before I move on to what I'm trying to say, I got a message just now that our MP group and the party are calling the citizens and saying, "Why does that Albian guy when he's clapping at radicals turn off the microphones, and when he's with the others, he doesn't turn off the microphones?" (President: Please signal me when to turn on the microphones.) So, gentlemen of the DOS, the time of "Sablje" is over, October 6th is gone, and your sorry for October 6th is gone, and he's gone, and he won't be there. Forget it, we're not afraid of you, we weren't afraid of you then. I remind you, when you organized several thousand hooligans to wait for Vojislav Seselj, Mr Ceda Jovanovic persuaded him not to go out the main entrance of this assembly, and when he came out he was not afraid of you. We weren't afraid of you even when you were the most powerful. We are not afraid of you even now that your power is really so small; only you from the Democratic Party can still have power over the Democratic Party of Serbia, so together, in agreement, you are breaking the Constitution and the law, as you are in the City Assembly yesterday. Since Mr. Albianic will soon remind me of the end of time, I will remind you of your friends, Mrs. Kolundzija. You say that since 2007 you have brought many friends to Serbia. These are friends from Slovenia who give letters to citizens where they offer some products - the state of Kosovo. These are your friends that you brought to Serbia, who sell fruit yogurt from the Republic of Kosovo at Mercator. These are your friends, gentlemen from the Democratic Party. Your friends are ambassadors of the enemy countries, the ambassador of America, with whom Sinisa Okic, the President of the District Court, drinks coffee every morning and which he ordered, along with Natas Kandic, say, that Gordana Bozilovic-Peterovic is moving out of the war crimes court. That's what your friends do, gentlemen, because you're not the men to do anything for yourselves, and you've been sweetened by money since the time of Zoran Djindjic. You've seen how it paid off, how he left behind himself and the factory, and Popovac, and a 9,000-hectare latinate and a fortune that is unimaginable to an ordinary citizen. You can yell all you want, you can intervene as much as you want, Zoran Djindjic was the mafia prime minister, and that's a fact. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7594	Mrs. Radeta, I'm really going to have to give you a heads-up if you keep expressing yourself like that after the assembly speaker. The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7595	I expected, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Mr Albianic would now take that envelope that we received today in the parliamentary group, so he could read us all the things that were listed, what we received from the acts, and read us the names of the laws that we received, and only then give us the word. However, it surprises me, Mr. Chairman, because immediately after the discussion was concluded, Mrs. Verice called me. The biggest problem is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when they mix up ideologies, so a little communist, then a little socialist, then a little alternative, then a little democratic, and eventually, the conglomerate called - the understanding of politics by the president of Mrs. Hope Kolundzie's parliamentary group. Mrs. Kolundgia resented us for our great inflation. I remind Mrs. Kolundzija that the minister in that government was Mr. Perisic, God rest his soul, the one who later died as ambassador to Canada, who belonged to the Democratic Party at the time, so DS... (President: Don't, Mr. Markovic, at least have a little civilized behavior. I'll tell you about you when it's your turn, and I'll tell you something about you. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that in 2000 they came to power the Democrats, however, there were 19 of them, while they shared all who will and will where and who will, and then the Sartid affair, and the sugars affair, and the oil affair, the money affair in Cyprus; there were all possible affairs, and then the affair is coming; there was an affair with Belgrade Airport, then an affair of Flight Control, and an affair of NIS, and an affair of Electrodistribution of Serbia. There's nothing left after you, nothing under God's name. However, I can't criticise everyone that they've been guilty since the 1990s, I can't criticize the Lord of the Resistance, because then Robert Helve, the son of the colonel retired, brought ideology to them on the plate. The only honest man who was in the Resistance was Mr. Karaicic, who was an MP here in the previous term. He told us once – they were in Banja Luka at a seminar and after the seminar they brought them to the car, they opened the trunk, the two of them were, I can't tell you about this other one now, and there were two acts of purse in the trunk, in which there were $100,000. So much for being honest with "resilient."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7596	National MP Zdravko Topalović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7597	Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, counterpart Vujadinovic of the Democratic Party mentioned here that concrete data and figures should be discussed. He, however, gave one statistical accurate piece of information about the rate of average earnings, but I want to remind him, the DS and the entire public in Serbia what the price of all this is. It is, Mr. Vujadinovic, that the external debt since 2000, since you've been in power, has so far grown to a record $19 billion, at an average annual rate of 11.1 per cent. That's your National Bank's data. It is also true that unemployment came to a record 26.6 per cent or over 2.5 million unemployed Serbian citizens. That's the price of the information you've provided. Would you like to mention here the privatisation of Sartida, of all major enterprises, an army of unemployed, destroyed banking systems? Do you know why the banking system was destroyed? Because now foreign banks are mortgaged to keep the entire economy of Serbia. That's the price of that and that information you're talking about. Yesterday, I mentioned to Serbian citizens that the DS is fighting corruption. It is again Zoran Alimpić, V.D. Mayor, how elected you've heard of all my colleagues. I promised to bring in the report from Euroaudit Audit Agency, which was auditing JP Business Space. From 1996 to 2004, the president of the municipality was Mr Zoran Alimpic of the Democratic Party. I will remind Mrs. Nada Kolundžija that the director of "business Space" was the right hand of Nebojja Covic, Mr. Vlad Manojlovic. The government of Manojlovic, you did not mention him here, Mrs Kolundzija, was in power from 1992 to 1996, since 1996 in your political option, with the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia and others. Here's what's the most important conclusion of that audit agency. The independent auditor's report said: "In our opinion, due to the effect of the issues discussed in the paragraphs 1 and 3 of this report, the attached financial reports before the audit do not show the true and objective state of property, capital and corporate obligations with effect on 31 December 2004," meaning until the day that Zoran Alimpic was the president of the municipality, as the most responsible man. (President: Time.) You know it's a crime. Mr. Gavrilovich, why don't you fight corruption, how did you promise? Why hasn't Mr. Jocic filed criminal charges based on these reports? Why do you keep quiet about it? All these obligations we mention and this foreign debt will be returned from the Republika Srpska budget, of the Serbian citizens robbed anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7598	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic, then Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, and then Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7599	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 104, 225 and 226. We just had a chance to hear from Mrs. Radet who says I'm not allowed to answer the word; she wants to take a shot at the Democratic Party, when who's going to answer the word. You know, when I answer the word, I usually address the MPs of the SRS, but also the citizens of Serbia. I now address the MPs of the SRS. It's sad when a man has something to say, but he has no one to say to. Mrs Radeta is addressing the Democratic Party's MPs. It's even sadder when a man has something to say to someone, but he has nothing to say. I had the honor and pleasure of knowing Mr. Zoran Djindjic. I've had many opportunities to be in his company, to be in barricades along with him. When I saw Zoran Djindjic, I met a baroque of democracy, the Duke of Freedom, I met a man who sang about the ultimate victory of good, I met an apostle of justice. Zoran Djindjic was neither deity nor anyone sent from heaven. Zoran Djindjic was a man of flesh and blood, honest, who loves this country. In his grave, it can be written in gold letters that during his reign, not a centimeter of Serbian territory has been handed over to NATO's pact. I had the grief and misfortune of meeting Vojislav Seselj at the Domovina pub as a student. He came in the sandals in November of the month... (President: Mr. Milivoevich, please don't speak up like that. Those are the facts, Mr. Albianic. I know very well who he is and what Vojislav Seselj is. Some people here resent being members of the Communist Union. Watch what Vojislav Seselj says, at the moment he is expelled from the Communist Union, in a political essay "My Political Defence": "Today when you banish me from the Communist Union I consistently claim that I was, I will be, and I will remain on Tito's path." Afterwards, this man with the macho stormed Tito's grave, and then he waited for Mira Markovic to say "Jump," and he didn't ask "why", but "how high". So much for the consistency of a communist named Vojislav Seselj, for whom Ivica Dacic in the book "It's not Serbian to beat" says, "It was easy to agree with Seselj. I'll take him to the champagne and the hours of work are over." The problem was when the Americans took him to the shampoos and the hours of work of the Roast Patriarch are gone. That's the problem in Serbia. It cost someone a lot of money. Today we hear it's a tragedy that he can't take his grandkids for cakes, because he's sitting in The Hague. Do you know how many grandparents in this country wear cookies to their grandchildren in Suffocation because of the Serbian Radical Party's policy? Please don't mention little militia from this pay phone anymore and don't mention little Sanja Milenkovic from Varvarin. Her family is against the SRS and they were never members of the SRS. Don't whine the dead kids. They expressed their political stance by voting against you, and her family equally accuses you, as much as NATO, of her death. So don't abuse this pay phone. Time is up and I will not abuse my time, but I will always know that your primitive outbursts are answered by the power of arguments and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7600	The word is by MP Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7601	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, when we are talking about the policy that existed until 2000 and the policy that exists today, I will tell you the story of a family, how this family lived in 1990. So it's a family with two students, a family where parents were retired and had five marks. Five marks for a total of 60 years of work experience. They were intellectuals, people who were safe doing their job, and at the end of their working century, they had five marks to teach two students. But it's not the biggest tragedy. A much bigger tragedy is that a family friend from Sarajevo came into the family in 1991, but he did not come willingly, but came because he had to come. So imagine a family where we have five marks, two students, a refugee from Sarajevo. That's not the end of it either. In the end, something terrible happened. So, this family was no longer complete because it lost one student in the war, gentlemen, who caused you from the SPS, with the help of your coalition partners. So it's a tragedy of Serbian families, a multitude of Serbian families. I'll remind you, 16 years since the death of four journalists who were in Bani to report events from Bania yesterday in Sapac. That's how we lived while you gentlemen ran politics. Today I wonder why the parents in this family had five marks for 60 years of work, where the pension fund was supposed to be paid off? Why don't we have one today, say, a lawyer or a doctor, but we have one grave? It's a policy you've run, and I'm in politics today so you'll never be in power again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7602	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7603	Dear gentlemen, article 100, replica to the presentation of fellow Topalovic I've been mentioned in an incorrect sense. [[President: You do not have the right to reply.]] Article 225, accurate information. Gentlemen, here are the exact figures. Total external debt, and I beg you, let's make the figures master, though it will be dangerous for individual parties and individuals. Let's get away from them. Foreign debt in 2006 - 14.9 billion euros, but public external debt, the government's debt is 6.42 billion euros and it came to 25% compared to the gross social product, and it was 60%, public debt, government debt. In the economy, gentlemen, that's what colleague Tabakovic knows, excellently, the important relative Racio numbers, this relative to that, and it doesn't matter the nominal amount. So the state public debt - 6.42 billion euros is 25% compared to the gross social product and is twice as small as 2000 compared to the gross social product. So the state is twice as much in charge in 2006 as in 2000. But that's why private public debt, private companies, is 8.4 - 8.5 billion. He's two or three times bigger than he was a few years ago. I repeat, public debt is what I said and it is much smaller than the reference base called the gross social product. The total debt is 14.9 billion euros... (President: Please don't throw Mr. Markovic away. )......................................................................................................... but along with a private debt of 8.5 billion euros. That's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7604	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7605	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really glad that I was able to provoke the Democratic Party to give Srdjan Milivojevic a special permit to go out for this pay phone, because every time he shows up here, that's certainly a positive point for the SRS, and negative for DS, which is our goal. Mr. Milivojevic, from this pay phone, you said, I speak to the Democratic Party. No, I speak to the National Assembly and I speak to the public of Serbia. You tried, Mr. Milivoevich, that in some poetic inspiration, you thought you'd be funny, you made some false things the way you saw them. I don't expect much from you anymore, I know that now Mr. Albianić will warn me, I am giving him a chance – in less time I haven't heard any more nonsense, but just three minutes ago from Srdjan Milivojevic. (President: Don't talk like that about fellow MPs, I told you. I knew it, so I already told you that I'm giving you a chance to warn me. Come on, say more and that warning, don't just threaten me behind my back. Be the real chairman, apply the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Milivojevic, it is no secret that Mr. Vojislav Seselj was a member of the Communist Union, as it is no secret that Mr. Vojislav Seselj was a political prisoner in the women's casamat because of the conflict with the then biggest communists, Pozderci, Branko Mikulic and others. You know that, of course, and Mr. Micunović. Mr. Vojislav Kostunica was the first on the list of intellectuals from Serbia to sign their signature to support Vojislav Seselj in the women's casamat. Of course, when we asked for support during the hunger strike in The Hague, we didn't get the same gentlemen's signatures because other times came. Because you have bosses now, gentlemen. Because you don't think for yourself anymore. Because you sold both your soul and your faith for dinner. That's, of course, your problem. Serbia's problem is something Srdjan Milivojevic expressed in the heat of the discussion, and what I understood as the Democratic Party's stance. Srdjan Milivojević said - there is no more Cave Patriarchy. We've heard something similar from Vuk Jeremic, we've heard similar from Boris Tadic, but it's interesting that you brought it out here, Mr Milivojevic. You forgot, I guess, that's what the Serbian citizens should be worried about, that you are now ready to sell to the Pećko Patriarchy, which has not been sold. Because if it were, Mr. Milivoevich, what would you be fighting for? What is it that makes you... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... In diplomatic offensive, as you say. What are you doing back? What are you doing, if something's been taken away... So either take care of what you say, or confirm that the Democratic Party's position is that the Pećka Patriarchy is no longer in Serbia, because you just said that. (President: Time's up, Mrs. Radeta. I'm sorry, just ten more seconds. This lady who just called, I don't know her name, which she tried to explain to us why she was in politics, she's only known for being from Capca and stealing election results in Capca.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7606	Mrs. Radeta, how do we do it anymore? Mrs. Radeta, you've really begun to surprise the congregation speaker with what words and terms you're using here without checking, qualified people in the worst possible way. I have to give you a heads-up about your attitudes for the assembly speaker, because of the terms and insults of the people you spoke for the assembly speaker. I'm sorry about that. It's the second time, and I have the impression that you deliberately wanted this to happen. I ask all the People's Messengers, indeed, to give up this discussion and to discuss it in the Rules of Procedure. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes, so we can keep doing what's right by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[After break – 11.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. We've got some out-of-the-way discussions on the Rules of Procedure. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure who insists? National MP Jorvanka Tabaković, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7608	Dear colleagues, you who have respected a break of 10 minutes, I would really like this to be the last time the numbers are abused in defending some political ideology, attitude or anything. You know, it's not right to say - the external debt is not as much as he said it was my colleague Zdravko Topalovic, and he presented a completely true fact that it was an external debt measured at 21 billion dollars. To present a 14 billion-euro figure does not mean that you have questioned that information, you have merely raised another currency in which the debt is expressed. But Mr. Vujadinovic's argument gives me the right to say the key thing, which does not have enough importance in our public, which is next. The assessment of the value of the external debt relative to the gross social product is, I can freely say, one of the greatest lies and deceptions that the government is using from October 5th to the day of today. What does that mean? If you say that the debt in 2000 was $10 billion, and today it's 21, it's clearly doubled. His structure is interesting. Today, out of a total of 21 billion about 50% of the state-guaranteed debt. So, what the state is in charge of, and what the state guarantees, is indirectly the obligor and guaranteed second debt, internal debt, or external debt, which is owed by companies and natural persons. That, gentlemen, in 2000 couldn't have been involved, because who could have been in charge of the outside? Did we have private banks where citizens could borrow loans, so that the participation of the debt of natural persons and businesses has a greater share? So don't share the information, because that's how you tell the truth. The point is, there's something else. You said that the participation of this debt in relation to the gross social product was reduced to 25%. What gross social product? It's just the point of how we got to him. In 2000, according to international financial institutions, the country's gross social product was $10.3 billion. In 2000, the average growth was 5.7%. In 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, take six years and multiply, not by five, seven, but by six percent, and go through the geometric progression as you came to the data today of 25 billion. So, the gross social product was first faked in 2003, which was confirmed by one of our economists, I hope you won't argue with it, Boarov, who told you and gave you exact information that in 2003 this gross social product could have been $11.3, not $15 billion. So if I agree in my own house, which I don't have, that I have a salary twice as much as I have, so I spend it on my own needs, I deceive my family the way you deceive this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7609	National MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7610	Mr Albianic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the SPS will not discuss anything but what is on the agenda. So I ask you in one minute, to say one thing and beg to return to the subject. I wouldn't answer now. A colleague from Shappac, whose esteemed name I failed to remember because he rarely appeared, I have no personal opinion about it, with one pose that was visible here, she talked about the scariest things, about the graves of children, about death, and the second she finished her laugh talk she went from here to her place and with laughter came out of the O.R. My job, among other things, is to analyze what anyone says and how they say. So it's just not fair, it's not correct. That she mentioned various parties along the way, that's her right. Serbian citizens pleaded on political options and said -- now you're the government, before they were. I'm just reminding you, the ones you're accusing have left power with two million votes. Serbian citizens had their own court on this. They said it, they put ballots in the ballot box they said -- now you're the government here. I remind you, it's impossible to throw the stone up and keep it up. I remind all national MPs and the public of Serbia, three or four days ago a session of the Committee on Trade and Tourism was held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and on the agenda was a report by the Commission on the prevention of competition, as the anti-monopoly commission is said to be. It is interesting that this session of the Committee did not instigate any interest of the political and professional public, and I remind you, a report of this commission was discussed at the session. The report contained estimates of whether a concentration on the market was carried out in Serbia, whether there is a monopoly position for certain large systems and whether there are and what adverse consequences for Serbia's consumers in this regard. What happened? DSS MPs, members of the board, voted in favour of the report, DS MPs and G17 plus did not vote in favour of the report. Now I'm asking you publicly, since Mrs Belovic, the chairman of this committee, called last night, did you have the strength to say that one man in Serbia is the owner of all of Serbia? Do you have the strength to say that whoever in Belgrade has such a network as the former C Market, Maxi, Minimaxi and others, without any competition working in Serbia? It is a question that is measured by dozens of millions of euros. It can't be that this commission survives, or that it's right that whoever made the concentration on the market is right. So, there are very big questions, and we're dealing with some details here. The past was evaluated by Serbian citizens in the elections. The present judge now and will evaluate the future based on what is happening today. I'm going to go talk to the Magnochroma workers who have been staying with us and others since this morning, because they've been insulted by privatisation, because nobody in this country meets the privatisation contract, and you're talking about fairy tales, Euros, five marks, and I don't know what else. In Serbia, almost no privatisation was conducted normally. Now Mr. Dinkic remembered to say he can't buy dirty money. Late, Mr. Dinkich. Dirty money in Serbia shaped practically everything that could be shaped, from political will to power in Serbia today. The dirty money stands behind certain ministries today, there are certain positions in the government of the Republic of Serbia, certain interests stand and the perspective of Serbia, unfortunately. The tycoons run Serbia and you know it well. Here comes the presidential election, there goes local elections, there's other choices, there's no problem, everyone check their bonus as prescribed by the law. Please return to the agenda topic. Please don't use hard words, because hard words cause other hard words. The paper says that's all we do, and we have nothing else to deal with, there's no serious law in front of us. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not have the power to write a serious legal project to consider it, but rather sends us papers that are completely technical or other character, that we plead on things that have already been agreed on. I'm done. We're not going to be involved in what's called an upgrade in the Rules of Procedure anymore. Don't touch us, we don't touch you, or we'll pay you back for every word you say to us today hundreds of times. So, Serbian citizens said in the elections what they had to tell whom. Leave the past, let's not insult people, let's not insult this House's dignity, let's not make up any opportunities and troubles here to like this one or that one. We're doing what we're here to do, and we're here to pass the laws. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to send us laws, that we are seriously involved in the work that has led Serbian citizens to choose us. The Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, except for what is on the agenda, in the course of the session, under the conditions I have said here, will no longer report for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7611	The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7612	Article 226. Mr. Albianic, I'd like to ask you... I agree with my colleague, I will never go out for this pay phone for no reason, but when anyone from the ruling coalition in this room in the negative context of the mention of Professor Vojislav Seselj, we will not go out, but we will talk about this subject for days. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, do not abuse Milivojevic; let him say, and then command him to go out, that he may no longer appear. Don't do this, because there won't be an end to this subject. So, I'm not interested in it, I think it's a matter of judicial authorities to prove whether someone was killed as prime minister of Serbia or as mob prime minister, I'm not going into it. We simply have some evidence, but we're waiting for what the official authorities are going to say. Don't open that topic. Let the judicial authorities present the facts. Unlike your gentleman, gentlemen, Professor Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague alone as a Serbian hero and will return as a Serbian hero. I don't want to get into how your prime minister ended up, but if you want to talk about it, say, we'll make our arguments and see what Serbian radicals know. Don't punish Faith. I don't think she said anything that doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7613	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7614	Article 226 and Article 225. According to data from our well-known economist Kanjevac, the total external debt is about $22 billion. The state will eventually bear the entire debt. It was carried out by an economic expert, Mr Katic, in "Politica" several days ago. The foreign trade deficit was below $2 billion in the 1990s. This year they're gonna make a record $9 billion. The fall of Ukrainian GDP was greater than the fall of Serbia during 1990. The SFRJ economy was destroyed by interest rates and loans from the IMF. In the early 1980s, the foreign debt of the SFRY was about $20 billion. Almost the same amount went on interest payments, and the foreign debt remained the same. In the end, the same policy that destroyed the SFRY led to 1.2 million deaths in Iraq from 2003 to 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7615	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7616	Mr Albianic, when I asked you in the previous report to apply the Rules of Procedure, including Article 106, on the basis of which the notice to the MPs is made, I did not mean that this article in 106 should be applied only to Serbian radicals, but to all the MPs who, according to your assessment, and you have the right to evaluate, violate Article 106. Now I'm going to quote, take care of the weather. Article 106: The notice is made to the MP: who approached the speaker without permission of the President of the National Assembly (I did not do so); who spoke before he asked and received the word (I did not do not do so); who, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda (I did not do not do so); if he interrupts the speaker, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech (no way); if he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons (no, I did not say so); if he uses curses and offensive expressions (not what I have cursed, nor have offended anyone); if other proceedings violates the order of the sitting or acts against the provisions of this Rules of procedure. So none of this, Mr. Albianic, could have been applied to my previous discussion. When Srdjan Milivojevic spoke, he spoke in person, and he insulted himself, and you did not warn him. Mr. Albianic, if I say from this place and you ask anyone in Krusevec who Srdjan Milivojevic is, everyone will tell you -- that's the lopurda that the dog had nothing to bite for, and now he's driving a jeep and he's got some kiosks. (President: Mrs. Radeta, don't talk like that about a colleague. ) He poisoned eight people; they found dog meat in his hamburgers. It's the one that gave Sokobanja water instead of injections and charged as injections. So, I'm saying something that the citizens of Krushevac say and I am right as a MP. Mr. Albianic, for a lady from Capca, who's not here, I didn't say anything about her personal life, I didn't say she was ugly, I didn't say her hair was dirty, I didn't say she was stealing in a supermarket, I didn't say anything about it, I didn't say any of it. I said -- she did, but now I'm adding, and her sister was stealing from the elections in Sapac, as the Democratic Party was stealing from this parliament, first when the DSS expelled and voted out of Thessaloniki, so when they voted from Bodrum, so when Boris Tadic lied to Serbian citizens that the Bodrum affair was resolved. (President: Time, Mrs. Radeta. ) Will you let me finish or call back, I really don't care? (President: I'm sorry, Mrs. Radeta, but time is up. ) Boris Tadic lies to Serbian citizens that the Bodrum affair is over, because what he was convicted of is not related to the Bodrum affair, but to the identification card of then-national MP Natasa Milojevic. As for Neda Arneric's card, Jankovic was involved in the affair, he was the director of "Srbijasum", so Dragan Sutanovac, Bojan Pajtic, and the one Radosavljevic from Kragujevac; they were not covered by this criminal report, nor were Bodrum's affair being discussed in court. Boris Tadic lied to Serbian citizens that he would drive away all those involved in the affair from the party. Here, I've just counted them, the first cups and tops of Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7617	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by the People's Messenger Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. When we talk about the economic and financial business of the Republic of Serbia, I will now provide you with the data I have taken from the report of the National Bank of Serbia for 2006 and the National Strategy for Economic Development from 2006 to 2012 and then you will see how disastrous these results are. In these two documents, you stated that in 1999 there were 2,950,000 unemployed and 2006 and 31, respectively. 12. In 2006, 2,527,000; this is the difference between 423,000 unemployed, or evicted from work. When we talk about increasing unemployment in 2000, this is your data, 20%, 2005 - 25%, and in 2006 26.6%; we are the first in Europe to be unemployed. According to your reports, you have sold 2,000 companies since 2000 and made 2.5 billion euros based on company sales, 1,200,000 euros from investment investments and 300m euros from social contributions, i.e. from the social programme. That was about four billion euros in total. Those funds, which you were supposed to invest in employment, were you tossing out and covering the deficits, and what deficits? The deficit in the country's balance of payments, foreign trade deficits, the deficit of the PIO Workers' and Farmers' Fund and budget deficits. As for the balance of payments, since 2000, you've been covering about two billion dollars with our countrymen's remittances from abroad -- for 2006 that's 3.5 billion dollars. The foreign trade deficit was $9 billion in 2006 and this year, economic experts are expected to think that, based on current indicators in six months, it should be between $10 billion and $11 billion. Foreign trade deficits since 2001... Replicate, your data. From 2001 to 2006, $35 billion is a deficit in foreign trade. (Chairman: Time, sir.) ) The budget deficit is 13 billion dinars and you will again cover it from privatisation revenues, meaning from the sale of enterprises etc. Just one more sentence, about the banks. You broke up the banking system; in 2000, we had 105 banks, and now we have 36; in 2000, we had 35,000 employees in the banking system, and now we have 29,000, and that 29,000 live on a high-interest continent, which is the result of the monopoly position that you gave to foreign banks. You're breaking up the security system slowly, along with this banking system. These are the results you publish, only drawn, unsystematized, etc., but this also clearly speaks about the results of your business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7619	The People's Messenger Vladan Batic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gojko Radic. I'm sorry, Mr. Radic, if the order is broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating the provision of Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I'm looking for an explanation. Why aren't all ministers here with the prime minister at the helm when it comes to corruption? The government, with its prime minister, is the epicenter and the generator of corruption in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7621	Mr. Batic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7622	Don't come in on me again, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7623	I'm not falling in on you, but you're keeping an eye on me. I'm actually just helping you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7624	Don't ever interrupt me again, because then I'll be rude to you, and so far I've been very polite to you. What does that look like? Do I have the right to criticise the government? I didn't say it was thieving, or that it was criminal, or that it was criminal. I said that the government is the generator of corruption in this country and that when I speak for the LDP parliamentary group, which I belong to as DHSS, I will explain to you in detail, and now you are suffering it. Therefore, you are not the spokesman of the government, you give the word to the MPs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now wipe out my time to start talking and don't jump into my word, Mr. Albianic. You don't always have to demonstrate your level, you don't have to, it's this artistic part of the program. So why aren't the ministers here? Why is the progeny of corruption, Mladjan Dinkic, not here?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7625	Mr. Batic, really, take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7626	Don't interrupt me. Why is the progeny of corruption in this country, Mladjan Dinkic, not here? And why do I say that? Why do I say that, Mr. Albianich, I know that you can hardly understand that. After the session, we'll sit outside and I'll slowly, word for word, explain to you that you may one day understand why I said this. I said this for the simple reason that on December 1st 2004, Mrs Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council, sent a letter to Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica indicating abuses and illegal actions by Mladjan Dinkic. When I speak in the debate, I'll explain it to you in detail. The Anti-Corruption Council, which is otherwise located in two poor rooms whose fax is not working, whose budget is poor and poor, shows the government's attitude towards corruption as a phenomenon and according to the Anti-Corruption Council, which should otherwise be highly institutionally ranked in every serious country. So much for that. Also, I'm glad Mrs. Kolundgia reacted. But, Mrs. Kolundjia, let's leave the past behind. We know what anyone here thinks. It's been said countless times. I've talked about it countless times. However, we must think about the present or see from the vision of the present what our projection of the future is. In that sense, you would have been better off answering how is it that your part of the government, which is majority in this government, voted in favour of the election of Dejan Mihajlov, Zoran Balinovac, Dragan Jocic, Velimir Ilic, Mladjan Dinkic, Radet Bulatovic, Aleksandr Tijanic, Mr Jocic, Mr Sarancic and all others, when, before signing a coalition agreement for them, everything and everything was said to them, at the very least, that they were criminals? Do you, overnight, and what alchemy is it for you to amnesty and abolize? (President: Time.) I'm done. They're all wonderful people, and now there's nothing wrong with what's been happening, especially now that you've reached an agreement on public enterprises, when the loot is divided. Now you'll probably beat them up for life, become saints.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7627	The word has the People's MP Gojko Radic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's MP Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7628	Gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I have had more calls than citizens of Mali Ijoš municipality who have adopted in the local parliament a request addressed to the Ministry of Health in which they are looking for the possibility of receiving health services, which they do in Subotica, are being addressed in Vrbas. The reason is financial nature, distance from Saturday is 50 and from Vrbba 12 kilometers. In this way, citizens could reduce costs and much faster and more efficiently, especially in some emergencies. I ask the question of Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and ask for instructions on how the easiest and fastest citizens can overcome this problem and go to Vrbas, not Saturday. One more question, more like one of the worrying phenomena that happens in the municipality of Subotica, than the question, but since it's a minister from a party that hasn't been informed, here, I am informing him this way and asking him for an answer. In Subotica, by chance or on purpose, several times the great Serbian religious festivals were not respected. Let's just say, we had an attempt to schedule a session of the Community Assembly on our big holidays, so we managed to make sure it didn't happen. Last Saturday at a elementary school in Palic, the children went to school at our Orthodox Suffocations, you can imagine. We wouldn't object to the fact that children go to school in Suffocation, but the problem is a little deeper and it's not harmless, so we think the Ministry should take care of it. The children worked day off to be free for the Day of the Dead. So what is it? We Orthodox women have more suffocation, I would not enter into anyone's faith, nor anyone who respects his dead and how much he devotes time and attention to them, but I do not allow Serbian children to do the Day of the Dead on October 1st, this is the festival of the All Saints, as they call it. I'm asking the Ministry of Education to be a little curious about these events. I don't know who has the right to determine when classes will be held, when they won't, and I ask the minister to enlighten the answer and that on our big holidays in Subotica, something like this doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7629	There is a word from the MP Slavisa Topalovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7630	Mr. Albianic, before I appeal to a member of the Rules of Procedure, I have a few questions I would like you to answer. Where are you currently located your party president, Mladjan Dinkic? I have a question for him, and I don't know who's going to answer. According to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225th and 226, Mr. Albianic, since you can't answer where your minister is supposed to be, I'm asking him to answer me in writing. If you can't take a stenographic note, you should note now that you know you're asking your minister. You've been in power for seven years. In those seven years, you managed to sell the entire Serbian economy for just 2.5 billion euros. Privatisation is nearing an end in Serbia, and you see the transition process as very successful. Of course, the situation is completely different. In this whole situation, there's only one thing that's true, and that's -- in any privatization, you've stolen, kidnapped and robbed without mercy, this people. Every robbery was preceded by the best-quoted ministers, Mr. Albianic. (President: Mr Topalovic, take care of how you qualify. I take care and speak the way it was. So to repeat, every robbery was preceded by the best-quoted ministers. They took the most for themselves and for their friends. You've worked out the details of the system of government through corruption. You have placed all your party colleagues and relatives in the force of the company. It didn't matter to you at all if he was from the profession and whether he knew how to do the job. It mattered to you that the party was suitable or if he paid a little, depending on his job. The latest division of government in public enterprises shows that even seven years later, you have no intention of giving up systematic control through corruption. Your fight against corruption exists, but only on paper. Of course I'm not talking in my head. I'll have to remind you of some of your robberies. Many of them are already slowly forgotten. But it is our role to remind this people what kind of thieves you are, and for God's sake, when we come to power, many of you will have to answer for your actions. (President: Mr Topalovic, your time is up. Mr. Albianic, I can hang up and get back to you. (President: Finish your thought, please.) Here, I'm finishing the thought. Because you're the same, you don't touch each other when it comes to stealing. Why are you doing this? Because you're stealing in a deal. You're all in crime to death, from all parties of the ruling coalition you have thieves. That's why you keep your mouth shut. The question, which you will have to answer one day, and some behind bars, for example, for Mr. Vlahovic, a member of the Democratic Party, and Minister of Finance Cvetkovic. You've known their participation in the past seven years. The privatisation of Hemofarma, in this business, has damaged the state by 90m euros; cement privatisation, the privatisation of sugarcane. "New Home", 36,000 square metres of business space, of which 30,000 square meters in Belgrade, Mr. Vlahovic bought 17.1m euros and betrayed everything, mostly to Croatians. The most tragic thing is that even these 17 million euros did not pay... (President: Time's up. Just another sentence and I'm done. He bought it without money. How is that possible and who allowed him to buy without money and then betray? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7631	The word is made by the MP Radovan Radovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7632	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I also reported on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We all see that today, as far as work is concerned, he's headed in the direction that few people expected, so since the atmosphere came up, I've volunteered to try and get back to some normal currents. I think what I'm about to talk about unites those by 2000 and those from 2000. There was no difference in how those who ruled until 2000 acted, and neither did they after 2000. By gaining political and economic autonomy from 1974 to 1988 in Vojvodina, the following was built, among other things: in the chemical industry - Petrochemia in Pancheva, the Metanol-syrcet complex in Kikinda, the Hipol in Odzac, the "Carbodioxide" in Vienna, "Rumaplast" in Ruma, "Biser" in Kumana, "Banatplast" in Plandište, "Sremplast" in Shida, the "IFPA industry" in Alibunar, "Isolir" in Zrenjanin, "Hin" in Novi Milosevic, "Gumaplast" in Indjija, "Farmaceut gum" in Kovin, Synthetic rubber factory in Elemir. The following factories were reconstructed and expanded: "Rumaguma", "Dunav" in chelarev, "Yugormedia" in Zrenjanin, "Hemofarm" in Vrsac, "Staklara" in Alibunar, "Azotara" in Pancheva. In the metal industry: "Inomag" in Backo Topoli, "Riotor" in Zrenjanin, "Kovačnica" in Jaša Tomić, "Metind" in Zrenjanin, "Faciliary factory" in Novi Bece and Shipyard "Sava" in Mačvanska Mitrovica, Shipyard "Tisa" in Novi Bece, "Sinvoz" in Zrenjanin, "Termovent" in Temerin, "Sila" in Stari Moravica, "Metalgradnja" in Vrbas, "Jugodent" in Srbobran, "Fadip" in Bece, MI in Sremska Mitrovica, "Minel" in Zrenjanin, Banatski Karlovac, in Pančev, "Sent" in Senta, Zastava's special delivery vehicles Zastava in Somor, "Ambar, "Armbar" in Šivić, "A., "A. All the old sugars were reconstructed in the food industry: in Vrbas, Senti, Kovin, Zrenjanin, Crvenka, Sremska Mitrovica, and five new ones were built: in Pecinci, Kovačica, Novi Crnja, Žablja and Bac. Old oil mills in Vrbas and Zrenjanin have also been renovated, and new ones have been raised in Shida, Vienna, Soya protein. Six brewers have been renovated and expanded. Sweets were built in Backo Palanca, Apatina and Krajisnik. The capacity for producing ready and semi-certain food was also built: "Juvitana" in Indjia, "Ellan" in Srbobran, "The Fruit Processing" in Irig, "Menta" in Padej, "Fermin" in Senta, "Banini" in Kikinda, "Medela" in Vrbas, "Jafa" in Crvenka, "Alpis" in Kovin, "Korn product" in Sremska Mitrovica, "Rumen" in Ruma, "Aleva" in Novi Knezvac, "Vitnamka" in Horgos, "Prima" in Kikinda, "Aroma" in Futoga. Large wine cellars in Vrsac, Erdewik and Palic were also modernised. Large milkers were also restored. Large industrial slaughterhouses were built and reconstructed: "Neoplant" in Novi Sad, "Cocca" in Choka, "Bek" in Zrenjanin, "Karnex" in Vrbas, "Panonka" in Sombor, "Mitros" in Sremska Mitrovica, "Topola" in Bacak Topola, PIK Kikinda, "Banat" in Banatski Karlovac, "Srem" in Šido, "29 November" in Subotica, and animal slaughterhouses "Topiko" in Backo Topoli, "Juko" in Žitište and Klanica in the Mountain. Thus, the processing capacity of loaded pigs increased by 1.8 million pieces per year... (President: Mr. Radovanovic, I apologize, the time. ) Just a moment, just a few more sentences, and the rest of them have gone too far, so I'm only going to be another 50 seconds. Six large bridges were built on the Danube: near Bezdan, Bogojev, Backa Palanka, Novi Sad, Beška, Kovin. Both fully revitalised hospitals and large health homes were built in Sremska Kamenica, Novi Sad, Sombora, Subotics, Zrenjanin, Sremska Mitrovica, Vrsac, Senti, Rumi and other cities. It's been raised to hundreds of schools and kindergartens. I came out just to remind the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, on the basis of Articles 12, 87, 177, 183 and 190, access the most recent time to draft legislation that will return the assets of the AP Vojvodina and the property of local self-government to its place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7633	The People's Messenger Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Laslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7634	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, bearing in mind that we have a few points before us which the Assembly will deal with, as far as corruption is concerned, I ask, according to Article 226. Rules of Procedure, to send a notice to all Members of Parliament on the following issues. First, did the Serbian government bring in last week, we saw it from the press, some kind of regulation banning the use of dirty capital in privatisation. There are names of some people who are convicted, accused, and mention, in connection with that, that they are forbidden to privatize. That's not what we're interested in. It's an honor. Just keep it up. What we are interested in is whether Miroslav Miskovic and Delta are covered by the regulation. I am asking for an answer from Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic and the Ministry, because our parliamentary group has been suggesting for months that the capital behind the company has been acquired in a dirty way during the 1990s. We think it is much more important that the Assembly deals with some issues that are important now for the lives of citizens, not questions about what happened 10 or 15 years ago or during people who are no longer with us, such as Mr Djindjic, who was killed, or like Vojislav Seselj, who is not in a position to defend himself. We think it's important to talk about the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That's one question, and we're asking for an answer before that point comes to the agenda. The second question, which is very important in our opinion, was also read in the press, and was not denied, about some memorandum of understanding signed in the Serbian government between Miroslav Miskovic, Slobodan Radulovic, Milan Bek, and the privatisation of the "C Market". Please send us an official note from that conversation, because, as far as we know, the sponsor of that conversation was Vojislav Kostunica, the conversation was held in the Serbian government. We are looking for an official note from that conversation, as well as the text of a memorandum that we are asking for to be multiplied and shared by all MPs in the Serbian Parliament before the debate on the point of corruption begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7635	The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7636	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in connection with Article 225. The Rules of Procedure and I would like to give a notice to Mr. Radic, who, unfortunately, has come out of the O.R. He spoke of a decision by the principal of a primary school in Palic. If Mrs. Director made a mistake, I think that since she's a single school principal, she has the right to make mistakes. On the other hand, I received notice from fellow MPs that other places in Vojvodina that day were working in places other than the Hungarian majority. What's more important, Mr. Radic said that day was done because October 1st is the Day of the Dead. I would like to tell him that he, as a People's MP, should know which days are celebrated in the middle from which he comes; November 1st is not the Day of the Dead, but the Day of All the Holy, and November 2nd is the Day of the Dead. The bottom line of this is that if we all knew each other better, we wouldn't have made mistakes like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7637	Replica, MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7638	My fellow MPs, I made a lapus as far as October 1st and November 1st, and I did say the day of the All Saints, and the second day is the Day of the Dead. And it was done at an elementary school in Palic. I've had a call from primary school educators, I wouldn't have had this information if I hadn't had a call from the workers. As for knowing each other, you, a colleague, would have to know that one day I kept until the afternoon session of the local parliament, I said you wouldn't start it, because they're Suffocators and that's the day we celebrate. A lot of parents want to take their kids to the cemetery, just like they did on the day they worked on the Palic. You're making it impossible through these little pranks of yours. Don't argue with anything. We have agreed, finally, in the local parliament that for large religious holidays, both Orthodox and Catholic, we will not make appointments, we will not do such a thing. But you don't stick to the deal. It's just, when it's called, when it intervenes, then you say we haven't thought about it. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7639	The word has been made by MP Goran Davidovic. I apologize for having responded that he had given up because he was not in favor of that moment in the O.R., and then the MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, it is quite clear that corruption is the most serious challenge for democracy and it is an honor and a pleasure for me to adopt such a set of anti-corruption regulations we have no step in one long way. The difficulties and certain delays we face do not prevent us from responding to one of these challenges facing our society. If we were to wonder how old corruption is, we'd come up with an answer -- how old is society and civilization. For the first time in 1997, a Dutch team of archaeologists found about 150 tiles in Syria with a cuneiform text indicating that the site was the administrative center of the Assyrian civilization from the 13th century BC. A special archive was then found that might match the modern interior ministry, with data on how employees received bribes, including the names of senior officials and the name of the Assyrian princess. From then on, corruption has been a serious problem, facing all societies. In modern society, any fall in the fight against corruption is attributed to democracy, which occasionally reminds people that these things were better in autocracy, which can be very dangerous for the development and progress of a society. Corruption is devastating by the social and economic health and well-being of society anywhere and at any time, regardless of the state's development rate. This clearly suggests that despite efforts to combat corruption through laws and the application of state institutions, it may be on the rise in some countries. It is paradoxical that corruption exists in the most developed countries despite adequate laws, the state institutions that function. Of course, these are not immune or most developed countries, which sometimes do not have the right to teach moral lessons. That is why democracy and the free market are not an indispensable antidote to corruption. A country that democratisation does not also adopt laws governing conflict of interest, financial wealth and bribery risks the new, young institutions being undermined by the desire to gain private wealth. In our country, in the previous assembly of the Assembly, and now, we have managed to pass a number of anti-corruption laws, I will remind you, and in March 2005, the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which happened for the first time in a country like Serbia at the time Dr Vojislav Kostunica was headed by the government. That's very important, because if they don't show up in the root, they'll eventually transform society into seeing corruption as a normal form of behavior. Simply put, corruption is the abuse of trusted public authority to gain private benefit. It implies requiring, offering, giving or receiving, directly or indirectly, bribes or any other undeserved benefit or putting in the form of the same, which interferes with the proper performance of any duties or behaviour required of the recipient of the bribe, undeserved benefit or benefit to be placed in the form. If we want to look at this problem in general, we can say that corruption is more than just a political authority crisis. It is a crisis of confidence in the representative character and legitimacy of democratic systems, a crisis with serious consequences for public administration, which reflects the loss of respect for institutions and a lack of ethical and judicial role models. That is why I can say that the DSS has the strength to fight with it and will indeed make a major contribution to this problem, which represents and how great social evil, comes down to some acceptable measure, because both much more serious systems and much more serious societies have not been able to root it out. Corruption involves the behaviour of public sector officials, regardless of whether they are politicians or public officials, which allows them to be themselves or those who are in their vicinity unfairly and illegally rich in the abuse of public authority entrusted to them. The law in its members provides that all persons who have suffered damage as a result of corruption have the right to initiate the procedure for compensation for such damages, which may include, in addition to material damage, the loss of profits or the immaterial gain. At the same time, the law stipulates that the state must provide for a way to compensate for damages and procedures to be taken by its competent authorities. Corruption strikes the heart of the market economy by obstructing decision-making and rewarding those who are corrupt and manipulators, instead of those who are efficient and productive. That's what we're up against. There can be no doubt that corruption deepens the levels of extreme poverty. One of the key factors to accelerate private sector development is the increased inflow of foreign direct investment. The question arises as to what is this inflow of foreign direct investment and what is the impact of corruption on it. This Convention therefore provides for the obligation of the State to ensure, under domestic law, effective procedures for obtaining evidence of corruption and court powers to issue provisional measures until the end of the process, provided that all these regulations are complied with. If it were a serious problem, it is the fact that most Europeans, if you asked them if corruption is part of a 'European culture', would say without much thought that it is not part of European culture. However, it is important that corruption exists in Europe and in the countries of the European Union, and it is not necessary to remind you of certain corruption affairs that have almost destabilised Italy and Spain and which have come to light in Germany and France. The abuse of the European Union budget has become a major problem that has led to the Commission trying to establish a network of mutual legal assistance between Member States to prevent corruption in this way. This clearly states that countries that have a longer tradition and which have institutions much older than our country's institutions have this problem and that this problem, in addition to everything that exists, has not yet been reduced to a reasonable and acceptable measure. Some consider corruption to be the root of poverty and say that resolving such a problem will solve the problem of corruption. However, we are sure that poverty has its place and importance in all of this, that without poverty there would be no corruption. If poverty is the primary cause, it cannot be the only one. If poverty is the cause of corruption, then it is difficult to explain why rich and wealthy countries are overwhelmed by scandals, many of which are linked to those who might be called poor or in need. That's why we say for corruption it's a sword with two blades. It can appear in wealth and abundance, but also in poverty. In particular, what is allowed Serbian citizens to adopt a Civil Law Convention on the Corruption of the Council of Europe, and what is it that our country is waiting on the future path of its application? First of all, from the moment we defined corruption, we thus allowed the Convention to be applied in the private and public sectors, as well as on the international agenda. The damage caused by the damaged must certainly be full and can be related to actual damage, loss of profit and immaterial damage. As explained in this Convention, the right to compensation must not be limited by a certain maximum amount, but by a level of damage in a specific case, of course, if the conditions for such a right are met previously. These conditions include: first of all, that the defendant committed or approved an act of corruption or failed to take reasonable measures to prevent the act of corruption, then, that the prosecutor suffered damage, that there was a causal link between the act of corruption and damage. The right to compensation for damages is reduced or denied if damaged by his guilt contributed to its creation or increase. In other words, other than those involved in corruption, responsibility for damage lies on the employer, whose organisation was not good or who did not take appropriate measures of oversight of employees. The responsibility of the perpetrator should be solidarity, giving the injured the right to make full damage to any of them or from all together to the full amount. The responsibility of the State, as an unconscious employer, for the damage caused by the corruption of its officials, is particularly determined by this Convention. On the one hand, it is not necessary to prove that the state has not taken appropriate control measures to prevent corruption. So this is how the state is bound to regulate these things and to stop these things. On the other hand, in the countries signatories of this convention, and we have been signatories of this convention since 2003, and this is the moment when its ratification comes in line at the Republic Assembly, the procedure by which the damage will result in damages. What makes this provision of the Convention different from everything that has been in practice so far is that the state assumes on itself the obligation to have, in addition to that obligation, the need to deal with all types of corruption, at any level, they happen. The issue of compensation may be of particular importance in the area of public procurement, privatisation and other procedures in which the choice between multiple offers is made. The appropriate application of this Convention will ensure that those who have lost their profits due to corruption because another bidder has been selected in the tender will be compensated for the loss in full. The Convention obliges countries to allow the damaged to, for at least three years from the knowledge of the act of corruption and perpetrators, initiate proceedings, with the procedure not being possible if more than ten years have passed since the event. Contracts concluded in such a way as to enable them to corruption or to which the Contracting Party has given consent due to acts of corruption are subject to special attention, which is interpreted by this Convention. In the first category of the contract, they are required to be void, which is a common solution whenever the contract is concluded to achieve something illegal. In situations where a Contracting Party concludes a contract for the sake of an act of corruption, it should be at its disposal the right to request that such a contract be annulled before the court. The Convention does not oblige countries to allow third parties to request the cancellation of such contracts, but it leaves room for such a right to be provided for by internal legislation. The Convention also provides for protection, practically, of employees, who must be protected against any unjustified punishment (announcement, transfer, etc.). If employee information on corruption is forwarded to the media, such protection should not be provided to him, but every country may also go beyond these minimum standards provided for in this Convention. Accounting and audit regulations are also subject to the Convention. Signatories of this Convention are asked to take the necessary steps to make the annual reports of the company clear and contain a precise and fair representation of the financial business. The role of auditors, internal and external, in the fight against corruption is also required for the revision to be such as to confirm that annual reports by companies provide an accurate and fair representation of their financial operations and all aspects of their financial situation. At the same time, the Convention also refers to certain parts of the proceedings before the Court, thus requiring effective procedures for obtaining evidence in the civil proceedings. It is argued that this does not necessarily mean the establishment of a special procedure for obtaining evidence in cases they have for the subject of corruption, or the transfer of the burden of proof to the defendant. Therefore, the fulfilment of this obligation will be assessed in terms of the effectiveness of the system for obtaining evidence in the case at all. The Convention also refers to the use of the existence of provisional measures issued by the court, which are necessary in order to preserve the rights and interests of the parties during the court proceedings. Of course, these measures would aim to ensure that the defendants do not transfer their assets during the course of the proceedings, which could serve as compensation for damages, to some third parties. All together, this Civil Law Convention, which calls for respect and other international documents dealing specifically with the issue of international co-operation, simply asks the Signatory State to join all agreements on international co-operation. Of course, it is the key to assessing the fulfillment of obligations that, above all, predict the fight against corruption in this way. Obviously, it is necessary to fight corruption not only individually in one country, but it is necessary in such conventions to have one synchronised fight against corruption in the world. In this way, I particularly pointed out the responsibility of the state itself. I think this is the way for the state, thanks to one such document, to also its contribution and to allow Serbia, by adopting such conventions in parliament, to do everything it can to keep this poor social phenomenon under control and to draw closer to countries that have more success in fighting corruption. I am sure that the DSS and this government, led by Mr Vojislav Kostunica, will certainly do everything possible to make this fight against corruption and succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7641	I thank the MP Goran Davidovic. We have two complaints from the Rules of Procedure. First, MP of the People, Verica Radet, and second, MP of the people Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it is obvious that we have continued to work on the agenda, Serbian Radical Party MPs will not interrupt the course, but it is necessary, Mr Mrkonjic, to meet the conditions set out in Article 87. Rules of Procedure. Yesterday we talked all day about Ministers Dragan Jocic, Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic sitting here. We've received word from the government that instead of all of them, Mr. Rasim Ljajic will be here. He was yesterday, he was this morning. Please invite Mr. Rasim Ljajic, given that we have continued our work, to at least be present. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to inform the public that currently outside the Serbian Parliament's building there are representatives of the "The Slave House of Belgrade" company and that this morning every MP who entered the Assembly gave a letter and asked to be read in parliament. It is obvious that the other MPs have thrown that letter away, but here on behalf of all MPs of the SRS, I would like to introduce myself to the public with this text. "Why are we here today," the workers of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" wonder. "After the illegal introduction and illegal implementation of bankruptcy in the Company "The Slave House of Belgrade" and after our struggle for six years, starting on 23 January 2007, we have been defined by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for the resolution of our problem. In that sense, we started negotiations with Minister Dinkic, more specifically in July 2007. As they are not officially completed, and by the Ministry a definitive position has been expressed, this is how we express our dissatisfaction. We ask you to help us bring our problem to the public through the Serbian Parliament's pay phone. We note that we remain at our request, which is: 1) the payment of guaranteed earnings according to the decisions of the Trade Court, and with a tight interest on the day of payment; 2) the remuneration on the name of the purchased shares in 1992 and 1994; 3) the settlement of the severances of 20% counting on the initial price i.e. 140m euros until the sales price finally reached, without any restrictions. "Respected citizens and you employees of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", we of the Serbian Radical Party certainly support you in your demands. We were going to talk to Mr Dinkic today and on this topic, because the Serbian government has appointed him as a representative of one of the laws that will be in order around the afternoons. Given that Vojislav Kostunica knew that you, employees of the Slave Houses, would be in front of the Serbian Parliament today, we had just received notice from the government that Mladjan Dinkic would not come to this hall today, but rather the finance minister Mr Cvetkovic. Therefore, you understand, as we understand, that the government has no intention of helping you. We'll talk about it anyway, we'll get the data, and we'll wait for Dinkic, I guess one day he'll come. Today he got away from us looking ourselves in the eye and telling him everything we have to say. He got away thanks to Vojislav Kostunica and Bozidar Djelic who spared him. Here's what's in our power to do, we'll do it. We are convinced, gentlemen, that you are right, that no one has the right in this country to leave you without a job, to leave you without severance, to sell the departments (the way the government intends), which are everywhere in the centres and in the best locations in every city in Serbia, and who knows what one of them is going to do. You, as well as hundreds of thousands of unemployed so far in Serbia as a result of the catastrophic DOS policy, will join the group. The only thing you have left is to fight along with other Serbian citizens for change in the next election, when after the victory, the SRS will certainly be better for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7643	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Miletic Mihajlovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7644	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. First of all, I regret that there are no government representatives here. These issues are very important, just to remind you: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. There should be at least three ministers sitting here. There aren't any. In accordance with Article 198. Rules of Procedure, I ask that my discussion be formulated as a parliamentary matter, and I ask the competent ministers for an answer. The question is this, and it's about the subject I was just talking about. Where are the foreign exchange reserves and the money from Telecom's sale? What is the procedure of the bank where the foreign reserve and the funds are stored? Is that Euroaxis, the former Vexim Bank, based in Moscow? Is the majority owner of the Bank of Vojin Lazarevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7645	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The word, also according to the Rules of Procedure, is People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic, and then let Mr. Stefan Zankov prepare himself. We've taken steps to get the minister to the Assembly Hall, so we expect him at any moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7646	Dear Chairman and Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we do not deviate from what we have said as a parliamentary group of SPS - that we do not want to obstruct and stop work on the agenda. In accordance with Article 225. I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure: we received this letter from employees from the Company "The Slave House of Belgrade". Of course we didn't throw that letter away. Here, on behalf of the SPS, I also express my support for the people of this company. We ask that, in accordance with the law, their demands be met. If the government says this is a legal state, then, of course, the decisions of the judicial authorities must be respected and their guaranteed earnings must be paid in accordance with the decisions of the Trade Court. Also, we're committed to making up for the purchases. If, as the Socialist Party of Serbia, we have done something wrong in the past, we have certainly made a mistake not to arm our privatisation law. Today there wouldn't be much to be taken from people who have been making material good for years and decades of their torment and sweat, so that it would be spoiled. Mistakes are paid. But now, from another position, as an opposition party, we certainly oppose such a way of treating the people of this company and all other people who have lost their jobs in this unfair privatisation that runs headlessly, without any compromise and with no respect for human dignity and the need for people who are left without bread or work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7647	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, and let the MP Dr Vladan Batic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, corruption is a disease that has been destroying our society, especially in the last seven years, so I'm going to talk about this subject more specifically than the MPs who spoke before me. I think the time for a debate on corruption is right, because a few days ago you celebrated October 5th, which, in my opinion, is synonym and corruption, among other things, because it is a defeat of the state and citizens on every agenda and in every respect, in economic, social, national and political terms. On October 5th, young revolutionaries, probably hungry, were tired of the difficult struggles against the previous regime, not to name it now, tired of it all, realized that they could do whatever they wanted and would be in power for life, in the place where they came to an ordinary coup. It's on its way. An affair, scandal after scandal, simply without end. It became a normal thing that was never normal. Today, seven years later, you'd like to forget all of this nicely, to go over it like it wasn't even there, but here I took the right to remind the citizens of Serbia of everything you've done, because we think it has to be obtained at some point in time by a court epilogue. You are free of all the conventions that we have here today on the agenda, and the Civil Law Convention on Corruption and the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption, if you adopt it only pro-forms and, as it says in one explanation here, to satisfy your employers who then, I don't know, blackmail you, and what not. Your problem is that your purpose is politics, so you don't have ideology, division of prey, or wealth. We saw what it looked like the other day on the case of the division of public enterprises, the wealth still left to the state of Serbia, which has not yet been sold for reasons. They were pulled, imagine Serbian citizens, these companies from a drum or from a hat, we don't know exactly how. One Elektroprivreda, one Oil Industry of Serbia, telephony or Telecom, as you will, worth billions of euros, which have been created for 50-60 years, this is how it is divided. Boris Tadic comes in first, drags his hand out, pulls out a company. Yeah, that's what he got in the inheritance. Vojislav Kostunica comes in, drags his hand and gets something again, as if someone had left him an inheritance, and then Mladjan Dinkic. I don't know if Velimir Ilic was pulling his hand or if it's from the part that got Kostunica, they know it. In Serbia, which is tragic, it no longer hides. That's how the newspaper publishes, there's no criticism, there's nothing. The question is, why are the media caressing you so much? You plant them a story about Euro-Atlantic integration, visa-free regimes, I don't know what it is, we go to Europe, you announce it to us every day. Of course, there's nothing there, only you go to Europe, the citizens have nothing to do with it, but you're not ashamed of it anymore. What was always insane has become normal. So Mladjan Dinkic kept repeating the campaign - pre-political expertise. There's no expertise here, there's not even politics, there's lottery, bingo, lottery, and I don't know what game it is, so you share what's left of national wealth. What actually happened in Serbia since 2000? You sold two thousand of the best companies for just over two billion euros. We have two facts here. First, the state was robbed by several billion euros, and the pockets of those in power are fuller by several hundred million euros. This is clear to everyone, all corruption affairs are related to the privatisation process or, possibly, public procurement. I have allowed myself, and you will correct me if I was wrong about the order or if I missed some corruption affair, to make top 10 corruption affairs in Serbia since 2000. There are eight hundred, and a thousand, but the top 10 is due to the citizens of the most interesting, shortest, so that my colleagues have time to work it out afterwards. Number one - Sartid affair, for $21.3 million, you sold half of Smederev and, as my colleague Colic said yesterday, you sold air, life and the future of the citizens of the region, not to mention that the debt was written off to creditors, etc. Number two - the Airport affair, stealing over 18m euros. I have to say this until these affairs are resolved, when this affair is resolved we won't talk about it anymore. Stealing over 18m euros, ficus and spoons at fantastic prices that you have achieved and the ability of your ministers. Number three - Janjuševic affair, Kolesar and Cementar Novi Popovac; this is probably tied up because money was found in his account; what was not on the accounts is certainly most of the money and the question is whether it will ever be found. Number four: the Energy and Financial Mafia, the National Savings Bank, and everything that's related to it. Number five - the suitcase affair and Vice Governor Simic, we believe, only the road to Governor Jelasic. Number six - sugar and sugar, selling and reselling sugar, sugar for three euros. The number seven -- the entry of the National Bank of Serbia building to B92 TV -- I guess that's why they have to work like this, to return these services. The number eight - "locomotive" affair and the purchase of trains, wagons, have not even been established, used, Swedish. Number nine - the "satellite" affair and Prvoslav Davinic. Number ten - villa Jelasic. I've tried to make one top ten affairs that are so obvious and where there's not one word on the other side that anyone would say -- no, people, so here's the proof, here's the tax returns, here's the payroll, here's everything we've earned, we've bought everything fairly. There's no answer. Quiet is on the other side, and then we hear some stories. Yeah, he's defending himself with silence. Here's a colleague, Markovic. So, I'd mention another affair that's not just about money, but I think it's scarier, it's an affair of voting from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki where you stole even votes, election will, etc. Miroljub Labus, who was then Deputy Prime Minister, says - no matter what was voted from Thessaloniki, it is important that the law is pro-European. It was the Labour Act, which has made many citizens of Serbia sick, and it was brought from Thessaloniki. So, as long as these affairs don't get a court epilogue, we're gonna talk about it and we're gonna ask him to get rid of it. How much money was made in all these jobs, in the context of privatisation or public procurement, is the fact that your Mr. Chume of the Pure Crimes has escaped to be a businessman, to deal with asphalting, etc. It's gotten even bigger than in those classic criminal deals. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. What a man not to be a gentleman now, a businessman, etc. Why don't these affairs have any epilogues in court? Because you're all in the balance of fear and you're all changing. DOS has been in several different forms since 2000 on three occasions. Here, we have now had an example, when the Democratic Party and the G17 called Minister Ilic for the Horgos-Požega highway, the answer of New Serbia was – if you continue with this affair, we will say everything about TV B92, how you got to the building (it was directed to G17 plus), we will say that it was sold "Sartid". And it's all quieted down, no more, the balance of fear has done its part. Again, everything is pushed under the carpet to wait for some time that is better for Serbia and that will be able to find a solution to all these problems. Corruption is defended by the state and society by honest people in power, above all. It takes, above all, the political will to eradicate this evil. I'm sure you're not here, and first of all, I won't even say it, they all said these examples I cited. You'll never be able to get rid of it because of yourself. We'll never make peace with the fact that you're trying to misrepresent yourself as normal. It is your right to advocate such a style or such a system of values as I speak, which is the system of values when you have one commissioner who has come up with huge couples, 20 and some years in an against-law way, and now all citizens expect that he is in prison or I don't know where, so I give you just one example, and he's taking part in a magazine that deals with the arrangement of apartments, interiors, designs, says a young, successful man, how well he arranged his apartment. Young people who are honest can't even get to the apartment, and he can have furniture from Italy, Spain and who knows where. It's something we'll never get back together with. It is the obligation of the Serbian Radical Party to remove you from power and to fight for a different system of values, which characterizes honesty, morality, honor and solidarity that have always been a feature of citizens in this country, regardless of what religion or nation they are. Only this system guarantees that Serbia will one day be able to go through full recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7649	I thank the People's MP. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7650	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the current Government and its ministers respect this House and elected MPs or representatives, and therefore the citizens of this country, confirms that there are no ministers here, and given the points of the agenda, there should be several. In Serbia, unfortunately, we have cases where people die of hunger. In Serbia, 400,000 children do not have adequate nutrition. In Serbia, 200,000 children are hungry or on the verge of hunger. In such a Serbia, corruption dominates, it is at the top of the world. In such a Serbia, we have one layer of oligarch, tycoon, your businessmen, newly-compromised rich people, those who are, in fact, true or true Serbian masters. They have their influence on power, have their contractors in government among ministers. That's why we're having conversations like this. In order not to make it seem like I'm biased when it comes to corruption, I'm not going to say anything I think about it all, but just what the reports, the letters, the applications, the emergency, the Council's demand for the fight against corruption. Please listen carefully to what those who, by definition, should be dealing with the fight against corruption... Because the government has set up its own Anti-Corruption Council in time, promising him professional services, qualified staff, staff training, so that he can perform his duties properly and uninterruptedly, uninterrupted from any influence. The council is objectively the only anti-corruption body in this country. Regardless of attempts by the current and previous government to defuse its influence and reputation in society by forming some new or other anti-corruption bodies, regardless of being ignored, suspended, disqualified, the Council is nevertheless the only anti-corruption institution that has been going on since 2001 and, in addition, the only institution that, according to the report "Transparency of Serbia", has an adequate reputation for fighting corruption in this country. So someone who's competent. I'll just give you a few examples. The Anti-Corruption Council addressed Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica on December 1st 2004, via its President, Ms. Verice Barac, with the following letter: "The Anti-Corruption Council is asking you to stop the sale of the business space of the PDO, which has been going on for the third year, under contract with the then-Government of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic, and is free of charge by the National Savings Bank. Today, on 24 November 2004, an ad was published for the sale of business space and related equipment in state property, which we consider to be the continuation of one of the greatest examples of illegal possessions of state property, which you will be fully convinced of in the report on the National Savings Officer that the Council has done and will be delivered to you by Monday. "There was no response from the government or prime minister to this memo by the president of the Council on the fight against corruption. We are going back to something new on the newer date: September 29, 2006, the Anti-Corruption Council is concerned about the country's increase in corruption. This is not only our assessment, but the same conclusion has been reached by relevant international institutions, such as the European Commission and the World Bank. The Council is requesting a meeting with the prime minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. It's a waste of The meeting didn't take place. The Council then addresses the public and citizens of Serbia with a letter and says the government is not responding to a request and a proposal to hold a meeting in order to halt heated corruption, that the Council's appeal for the fight against corruption to establish the rule of law and build new institutions and new rules of conduct appropriate to a democratic society, thus creating an environment for the control of corruption, did not bear fruit. In order not to read everything, the Anti-Corruption Council points to a few phenomena and says - The National Investment Plan is a significant example of bypassing official procedures and giving additional discretionary powers to a group of ministers, which will lead to a significant increase in corruption in the country. The implementation of the plan has already begun, although the legislative authority has not adopted it, neither have institutions and procedures for its implementation been established. This certainly contributes to legal uncertainty, and continues to strengthen the arbitration and excess of the executive authority over legislative and judicial matters, which is a very fertile ground for the development of corruption. Then the second part discusses the way privatisation and the devastating facts and the creation of an environment for the emergence of corruption. The president of the Anti-Corruption Council again informs the public of the following on 17 January 2007. It concerns the reactions and actions of Mladjan Dinkic. They suggest that while attacking the work of the Council, Mladjan Dinkic tried to conceal his role in the next illegal activities. So this is a memo from the Anti-Corruption Council, I think of Mladjan Dinkic much worse. 1. Raising the country's foreign exchange reserves into non-solid foreign banks under the control of domestics - this is the story of "Euroaxis Bank" and Vojin Lazarevic; 2nd concession of business space, equipment and personnel of the former PDO to the National Savings Bank and other banks, without compensation; 3rd sale of the business space of the former PDO to privileged tenants at a minimum price, in fact without public competition; 4th privatisation and sale of the National Savings; 5th rate of payment of the old foreign savings to the National Savings Bank without competition; 6th withdrawal of false statements that 95% of the old foreign savings savings were paid; not stressing whether the number of parties or the amount of debt was involved; 7th payment of false promises of money from Cyprus; 8th collapse of state institutions; pressure on the Commission's work for securities, alleged prosecutions of large aditions, prosecutions and prosecutions. Remember what Mladjan Dinkic was saying about the "pancer" affair, that it was a century-long robbery, in the end we see that the prosecutor gave up, that there is no prosecution. No, I don't. Robbery of the century is what Mladjan Dinkic did and always the folk... ; 9. Conflict of interest and overrule in the sale of the tobacco industry in the Senti company "Japan Tobacco". About the links between Mladjan Dinkic and "Japan of Tobacco" I spoke very extensively and filed a report with the special prosecutor for organised crime. Negotiations on the sale of Mobtel, which should be the subject of serious research; fostering corruption through the National Investment Plan and the use of budget funds for the purpose of the pre-election campaign. Says the president of the Anti-Corruption Council: Mladjan Dinkic, as prime minister in the previous government, opposed the fight against corruption and the establishment of clear rules and standards, in order to avoid control of his work and budget spending. No state audit institution has been established for three years as finance minister, although the law was passed before last year. Dinkic's attacks on the Council began following a report on the National Savings Bank, one of the biggest corruption cases since 2000. The report was delivered to both the government and the prosecution, so we expect Dinkic's responsibility to be established in the court procedure. The Anti-Corruption Council again addresses the prime minister on June 4th of this year and points out what would be necessary in order to stand in the way of galloping corruption – establishing public control of state finances, respecting internationally recognised rules on the budgetary system and respecting the government's legal obligations; problems in the area of public procurement... It then points to the lack of control in the financing of political parties; the monopolisation of the market through poor legal regulations; the harmonisation of regulations and, as a special example, the decision to grant a concession for the construction of the Horgos-Požega road. There's no answer. Then, also to the prime minister, since 20 August 2007, who says that the Anti-Corruption Council has been presented with several performances and extensive documentation concerning the takeover of the company 'C Market', where allegations are made about illegal agreements on small shareholders owned by companies run between potential customers, 'Delta' and 'Laderna B.V', and the director of 'C Market'. Then a report on the 'C Market', which is listed as a typical example of unconventional corruption, is being held by the country's prime minister, where the meeting is attended by former C Market Director Mr Radulovic and future owner of the "C Market" Miroslav Miskovic. It indicates here that the first meeting was held (and this is the Anti-Corruption Council) by Minister Jocic, who promised former C Market Director Mr Radulovic that he would not be prosecuted if an agreement was made with Miskovic. So, in addition to the letter by Slobodan Radulovic, it was sent to the Council for Combating Corruption, etc. The second meeting was under the auspices of the prime minister. The Anti-Corruption Council then explains the adverse effects of monopolisation and suggests that in some civilized countries, more rigorous anti-monopolistic laws are. A three-year prison sentence and an alternative fine are scheduled in America; four years in France and a fine; five years in England and a fine. There is no answer to this either, as it is the government's favorite, master of Serbia. Finally, the Anti-Corruption Council indicated on September 3rd this year the disastrous consequences and the source of corruption came from the conclusion of a concession agreement on the Horgos-Pozega highway and proposed the formation of a government inter-resor commission, etc. But everything the Anti-Corruption Council asked for, demanded, did, insisted, unfortunately, the rest is a dead letter on paper. This best confirms the attitude of the current government or government towards the phenomenon of corruption. Again, it is the most essential condition for entering European integration and in general for the progress of this society. I repeat again, everything I have said is in the reports, memos, texts of the Anti-Corruption Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7651	I thank Mr. Batic. The word has Professor Dragoljub Micunovic, an authorised representative. Here you go. Snow White, just to finish the professor, he won't be long. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7652	I'm going to do something different to approach this problem, only from the point of view of the rule of law and its promotion. Corruption is a great topic, it's an eternal theme. To entertain you, I can tell you that it used to fight corruption. A mad Persian emperor, Kambiz, as Herodotus testified to us, saw that corruption is huge in Persia. Then he gave the Supreme Judge a living robe, and then he left his skin dry and all the armies watching, and then he made that dried skin a tripod and made him the Supreme Judge of the son of this judge to sit on his father's skin and think. I just want to say that corruption, like something that destroys the order, has long been present. One English writer, Oscar Wilde, says I can resist anything but temptation. There's a problem and it's the central root of corruption. It is primarily a temptation, a temptation of every man to play morale, right, for his own grampity. Of course, we are rightly disgusted and condemned, but if we observe history we will see that in this way, only by moral sermons and disdain, not by corruption. For the past 300 years, political theory has dealt with only one problem – how to limit abuse of power. So I'm approaching this problem from that point of view. Empirical is clear, and I've talked about it myself, and I've written some texts about kleptocratia, but I'd like to say, unfortunately, we haven't built strong moral and legal principles in our history that would be a great dam for corruption. From Prince Milos Obrenović and his regime to the Kingdom, we just don't read that newspaper, because it was a long time ago, if you looked, you'd see that there were no days when no corruption affair was opened. So the problem was how to find the means to stop her. The first means, used here, is the existence of an opposition; therefore, the division of the government and the existence of the opposition as controller of the government was one of the first measures, and it was done. Unfortunately, it was quickly seen that when the opposition and the position of change of place, then it continued in some old custom and that only the existence of opposition and replacement in power did not do much to improve the fight against corruption. The other means are the public and the freedom of the press. So we have these two instruments. We have an opposition, very fierce, which, no matter how well established, when or what, but very fiercely and persistently use this right to criticise and attack power. The other means are the public. No matter how much the papers are independent, we have to say that there are so many of them that it doesn't come out in one newspaper will come out in another and that there is also this anti-corruption tool. But there's what's the right place, where the touch of power and rights is. That's the central question. Because corruption destroys the legal order. It's only possible if you break legal standards. When it gets massive, then there's no trust in right and that's the worst that can happen to one country. Why is the world's largest corruption in transition countries right now? It's for the simple reason that such a historical breakdown took place, and that's the change of that titlemaker's greatest ownership. So, from one state economy, you need to make a private one. Then put the state and its property, like on a Swedish table, some fish, and cut off as much as you can. That invitation to morality, and even to the most severe punishments... Because, you see, there are several hundred death sentences in China exclusively because of corruption, and there's still something that's stealing. You can't explain such decomposition and so many tycoons, oligarchs, or whatever they call them, which were created in all these countries without any abuse of power. Of course, there's a new question now. Corruption is possible in several ways: such as silence, as giving consent, as closing eyes, as receiving a direct bribe, but there is also corruption over privilege and it is the most common. Of course, everyone here tends to share both the people and us all here—on the one hand the honest, on the other side the thieves, on the other side the patriot, on the other side the traitor, but that story doesn't work with the people, because the people live, happiness and one and the other, all together. When you come, using your political force, as liberators and revolutionaries, then move to the fairies, to buy them today, of course, because you have committed the first corruption and based on these privileges, you have corrupt everything to invest in the authorities, enter these parties and thus function. Therefore, privileges are one form that is legally legal. You can pass laws, share apartments with ministers, share villas with anyone you want, but that's also more corruption and it's more dangerous, because it's out of direct prosecution of judicial authorities, so the court, and that's where the problem arises. I think we should be promoting our institutions, creating commissions, and these anti-corruption, anti-monopoly. Corruption is, of course, if you buy half of Serbia and make the biggest margin in Europe today. So it's also corruption. You know that very well. So the problem is whether we have enough legal mechanisms, not just to argue here who is, when and more abuse, because I could give that list a long enough list for much more than a century, as far as Serbia is concerned. But that's not the problem. We can't contain that as long as that temptation exists. When is temptation possible? Tempting is only possible if you can abuse the right. Such institutions, such instruments, such reviews of all businesses, such transparency of every agreement and act of not being tempted, because if tempted, in 90% of the cases, it will naturally be on the side of corruption. It is good that we have one convention that will give us one framework to promote all instruments against abuse of power. But by sharing compliments like this, we won't be able to contain much of this phenomenon that's harassing the world, and in these countries in transition, I'd say, and much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7653	I thank Professor Dragoljub Micunovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people is Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. I apologize to her for not getting the word before. Let MP Zoran Despotovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7654	Thank you. I'm actually reporting to the replica, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, because the president of the G17 Plus party has been mentioned. I gave in to the law, Professor. Micunovic from the deepest respect, but you were obliged, of course, to give the word to me. Mr Batic, as for the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Council, I fully agree with you that the Council should be a body that will deal with all corruption issues. However, I must remind you that the Council has been having problems functioning since the moment you were a member of the government. We all remember that there were a number of problems and that several Council presidents resigned, precisely because they had no minimum working conditions or any co-operation with the then government, whose member you were. I'm going to remind you that the Council had reports back then, and that it didn't start writing them in 2004, since you started reading them, because you weren't a minister anymore. As for the numerous charges you made at the expense of Mladjan Dinkic, I can only say one thing. I have met many people in my life who have been fascinated by the energy and power that Mladjan Dinkić has, but to this extent, to be fascinated by his character and work as you have, I have indeed never met any man before. As far as all the charges you've made are concerned, they can be individually answered. I'm ready, if you want, to answer them all day, but I don't think this is the place. Sir, as a kind of lawyer, I suppose you know exactly where to place the charges and answer them. But the problem is that you didn't do it at the time when it was your business obligation, when you were minister of justice. I'll remind you that everything you talked about, and the National Savings Centre, and the PDO, and Cyprus, happened at the time when you were the minister of justice. You had a direct responsibility to all these so-called. The affairs, as you call them, are being driven out into the open. Not that you had an obligation, but it was really your job, which you now admit you weren't doing. If there was a basis for prosecution, why didn't you file charges, why didn't the prosecutor file a case against Mladjan Dinkic? For the simple reason that then, as never now, there was never enough ground to initiate such a single procedure. You are now using for political purposes some stories that have absolutely no basis. Why do you use it for political purposes? For the simple reason, Mr Batić – the only time you went to the elections in 2003 – there were more invalid ballots than there were votes for the party you were leading. Of course now you need someone or something on which you will try to rebuild some of your political ratings that is irrevocably lost, if ever existed. As for trial and evidence in court, you certainly know better than I do how you testified, among other things, in Cyprus. So your testimony is characterized, says - Mr Batic presented his general understanding of the way the money laundering was done and gave absolutely no evidence in favour of the claims he made. So, you, Mr. Batic, not only here in front of us, but in court, you give your understanding of justice and truth. That is not really what is relevant in court, and I must tell you that it is no longer relevant in the public of Serbia. Forget, simply, the ideas and possibilities you're dealing with. Of course, there's one more thing that hurts you, and that's the relationship of the party G17 plus to the tycoons, because we fought against them consistently. We have shown this in the case of Karic, who you supported out of grief that he is not a significant political factor on the Serbian scene; you supported him in the hope that you will continue to have the co-operation you had with him. For G17 plus co-operation with tycoons that damage the state, it's just not something that's part of their program, unlike you. In the end, Mr Batic, you can make all kinds of insinuations at the expense of G17 plus Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, but there is one fact that Serbia is surrounded by a joke that your former party's main board is being held in Central Prison. All the insinuations about our relationships with tycoons or people who have the elements of criminal prosecution are yours, as those in Cyprus have said, free insinuations. What happens to your prominent members and associates is that they are in prison, blamed for the Index affair, blamed for the Genex. These are your highest officials and closest associates, who obviously have things to prosecute them for. Please stay away from G17 plus. Otherwise, we'll still suit you. We wouldn't want to turn this congregation into that, but we invite you to give all the evidence you need in court, Mr. Batic. I will also remind you that Mladjan Dinkic has received a trial against "Kurira" who has published numerous lies about him, as you have written, bewitched by his personality, books about him. All of these are false and all of these trials have so far proved this and will prove it in the future. Now I ask you to let the Assembly do its job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7655	I thank the MP, Mrs. Snezani Stojanovic-Plasic. Replica, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7656	Mrs. Plassic, we're not going to finish, we're just getting started. We'll finish when Mladjan Dinkic finds his place behind bars, and then we'll see who's behind bars because of the fact that one former member, who hasn't been a member of the DHSS since 2003, is currently in custody. But we'll see. As this government and the former justice minister arrested, former public security chief Zoran Djindjic, the district prosecutor, the head of prison in Serbia, and none of the procedures were in place. Some of them were arrested, handcuffed and in front of the cameras. When the president of your party comes into this situation, I will personally insist that it be both handcuffed and cameraless. As for what I said earlier, I said that none of it was my improvisation, my opinion and my position, but my official report by the Council on Combating Corruption. The second thing is that today we have on stage a private judiciary that won't respond to criminal charges. I personally filed multiple criminal charges. Mrs. Plassic, for money laundering at the Segedin HVB bank, therefore Ubospok has done everything. The owner of the company Hayward Company Limited from the Virgin Islands, Zoran Mitrovica, has admitted everything, but it has not been processed. Where is your member and head of the election headquarters of Miroljub Labus Bojan Zecevic? What property did Bojan Zecevic gain in the meantime? You want to talk about it? Would you like me to bring you all the Ubopok reports, headed by Mladen Spasic, a friend of Dinkic's? That's why it wasn't processed. I also asked Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic, who was then a special prosecutor for organised crime, to answer where my two criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic, one since 19 May, were one since September 2005. After two years, they could have been rejected, so I would have taken charge. Why aren't they rejected if there are no elements in them? For shutting down four banks, for the National Savings Bank, for the Cypriot money, it's a robbery of the century. The main screenwriter of the robbery is Mladjan Dinkic. Why wasn't that processed? Not for me, but the Anti-Corruption Council has filed a criminal report for the National Savings Bank. If for some reason they think that my criminal charges are some sort of rematch, then why didn't you act on what one organ, which is the most competent, which is the Anti-Corruption Council, did. As far as alleged affairs are concerned, you have seen from the ex-government's statement that (I do not want to justify anyone for the Bodrum affair, nor the Janjusevic-Kolesar affair) the alleged affairs from the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic compared to the affairs of the government that has been incomparable since March 2004. Here every privatization was an affair, and there is a constant repetition of these several affairs. I repeat, I don't justify them, I'm not defending anyone, but they are completely insignificant compared to these so far. Furthermore, at that time I was the minister of justice, I was not the chief of police, I wasn't the chief of UBOPK, I wasn't the prosecutor, and I never abused my office as minister of justice. Mrs. Plassic, you've mixed up grandmothers and frogs as far as Cyprus is concerned. There's the paperwork crystal clear, and who took the money, and how our billions were being swept away and who and why he didn't pay back. The procedure in which I testified in a Cyprus court referred to the dispute of one individual, our businessman, with the Laiki Bank, or former Cyprus Popular Bank, whose former director, Kikos Lazarides, was the right hand of Tasos Papadopoulos, the current president of Cyprus. There's nothing more persuasive about my testimony. I was talking about the phenomenon, I was talking about how the money was carried out. Now you expect the Cypriot state to judge itself in the fight against an individual from Serbia. Of course not, because people from Serbia are involved in the affair, but also people from Cyprus, who are in the highest state functions. (President: Time.) I'm done. Mrs. Plassic spoke for six and a half minutes. (President: Same as you, believe me. I'm done. So, the DHSS never had any co-operation with the Bogoljub Karic party. I don't know what occasion you said that. Second, you never need to take it out on someone else's misfortune, because the wheel of happiness is turning. In particular, Mladjan Dinkic, whom I have never been, nor am I, nor will I be fascinated. Simply, you can be fascinated by people who have reached some high reach, who are experts in superior values or who are moral gromads. Mladjan Dinkic is neither.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7657	I thank Dr. Vladan Batic. Snow White, no more replicas on this. Do you want to go through the Rules of Procedure? He's replicated you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7658	I have the right to reply every time someone mentions my party as deputy head of Parliament. So, Mr. Batic, we got along just fine, we got along great. You referred to some acts that were allegedly done in 2001, 2002 and 2003. You were the minister of justice, but wait, when was the National Savings? I remind you that the National Savings Bank was formed with the full support of the government of Zoran Djindjic and with his personal participation, as well as yours as a member of that government. P.O.P., when did this happen? It was 2002 and 2003, too, when you were the minister of justice. So, Mr. Batic, we spoke very clearly and I spoke very clearly about that if there were any elements to prosecute, you, as justice minister, had the authority to do something about it. You didn't do it. You do it now, it's an empty story and you can't get away from it. As for your relationship with the PSS, I'm not getting into it. You were a guest in their congregation, and to me it is a significant information that speaks of you being associated with that party or at least supporting the party's functioning. No one is hating anyone's misfortune, but it's simply a man who was trying to take the money of Serbian citizens, which is something we fought against and successfully fought against. As for your members who are in prison, you can't get away from it, because these are some high-ranking officials of your party and I am not going to read their names out of respect for their families, not your party. As for the Council's report on the fight against corruption, Mr Batic, I have some of the Council's report on the fight against corruption, which discusses privatisation in 2002, 2003, etc. For example, there's the Zemun Veterinary Institute, 30. Ten. In 2003, there are really many companies, "Transport" Kragujevac, "September 15th" Valjevo etc. So, the report of that same council you're calling on, if we're going to do it today and we're going to be bothering citizens and the Assembly all day, reading the reports of the Anti-Corruption Council... I don't think we'll get anywhere if we charge each other in any way. What's a fact, it's that you were a minister in that government, that you had all the authority to stop it and I don't think we should talk about it any further. With all due respect to what the Anti-Corruption Council should do, you cannot deny the fact that there are many of their reports concerning the time in which you were the Minister of Justice. All international organisations have seen reforms in Serbia as good and significant, except for reforms achieved in the judiciary. Do we need to talk about the number of out-of-date cases, the bankruptcy mafia, the judges who were working under your patronage at the time? We're not gonna talk about all this. I will no longer report for this, out of respect for the citizens of Serbia and the time the Assembly needs to use to do its job. I say again, we'll talk about this in court, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7659	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladan Batic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me leave from the end. To see what the situation in the judiciary was like when I was the minister of justice today, you can go to every court and every prosecution, every institution for the execution of criminal sanctions, and you'll get an answer from the employees about what the situation was in the judiciary. We did not elect the Constitutional Court judges by party membership, but Slobodan Vučetic was the top critic of government and government. The President of the Supreme Court was not a member of any party, the prosecutor was not a member of any party, etc. As for the National Savings Bank, it is true that Mladjan Dinkic has convinced Zoran Djindjic of the four major state banks that they have atrophied, that these are giants who cannot survive and that they need to form a credible, respectable, serious state bank and that it would, for God's sake, support it, have been named the National Savings Bank. It is true that Zoran Djindjic cheated on Mladjan Dinkic, and we can talk about it all day long, as I was saying earlier, he hired the phantom agency "FIA" - Lord Armstrong, Vukasin Minić, Jessica Divassi - to seek money in Cyprus. Let's see how much money Mladjan Dinkic spent paying for the agency's engagement and what that agency did. Nothing, and why was she hired? She was the Japanese tobacco promoter at the same time. That famous Dinkic sentence, "Laki's a little nervous" refers to it. It's an insult to the late prime minister, and we won't talk about it anymore, because everyone who's been dealing with this matter knows that, so the story of the National Savings Party ends there. Later you saw the connection between Dinkic and tycoon, because people, here's your whole structure, in one sentence, about the National Savings Bank, like Vojin Lazarevic and Vuk Hamovic, have actions at the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, where part of Serbia's foreign reserves lie, which is not even known by the finance minister where Serbia's foreign reserves are. A tender for privatisation of the National Savings Bank is being launched, and those of the Euroaxis Bank are raising loans as shareholders, privileged, buying National Savings Action, and then the National Savings Bank is being sold to Greeks at five or ten times the price. They pay back money and put millions of euros in their pockets. It's a story about the National Savings, but it's in some drawer, it can't see the light of day. I wouldn't mention the people in custody, I said again, that's one former member of the DHSS, and time will show if he's responsible. I'm afraid he'll show he's not responsible. As far as the Justice Ministry is concerned, I am proud of what I did as a minister of justice: from the building, most representative in Europe, the Special Court of Organized Crimes and War Crimes, to the Supreme Court building, to the computerisation of the judiciary, to getting new cars for all courts and prosecutors in Serbia, to salaries that were higher for legal holders on July 1st 2002. Go, ask, and you'll see. As for the ratings, I didn't lie, I didn't deceive people, I didn't do social demagogy, I didn't pay for votes. Rating is a variable category. As far as you're concerned, the weather is showing more and more unsuspectingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7661	Thank you, Dr. Batic. We're finishing the morning session. The first speaker, at 3:00 p.m., will be MP Zoran Despotovic. At the insistence of the MPs, I ask Minister Ljajic to be here at 15 o'clock. If he's not here, we won't continue the session. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] We'll continue the afternoon session. People's MP Zoran Despotovic came to the floor, and let MP Tomislav Ljubenovic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7663	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, there is also a Protocol on Health Insurance, which has regulated that the insurance companies of one country located in the territory of another country do not pay health services in urgent cases. However, there is a completely different picture in the field. A Montenegrin insurance company, if it is found in the territory of the municipality from which I come, which is the border municipality of Prepolje, will be charged every dinar for the health care service provided to it. The second detail, a number of pensioners living in Serbia, in the municipality from which I come, has 120, health care is currently on the basis of the protocol. However, there are so many people living in the area of the municipality, who cannot get medical books, so it happens that a man living on the mentioned territory means a border municipality of Prepolje, in order to achieve health care he must go to Plewva or the White Field, because there is his insurance, not where he lives. That's the case, you won't believe it, and with my parents. In order for the absurd to be larger, with Macedonia, it is not so, with Bosnia and Herzegovina, even with Germany, because with these countries, insurance works impeccably, unlike today's community member, where that is not the case. In the interest of the municipality from which I come, and it certainly is so in other border municipalities, such as Priboj, Sjenica and others, I ask that this issue be regulated as agreed; secondly, to technicalally simplify the way of health insurance in both countries for those living in the territory of one country, while pensions are received from another country. The establishment of pension insurance rights should be arranged so that the weighty internship, the majority, is the basis on which the pensioner will depend. Retirement of pensions should be arranged so that every pensioner should get it where he lives, not as so far, that a pensioner living in Serbia must report a residence in Montenegro or have the authority of another person in that country. Finally, because of the different currencies that are valid in one or another country, it is necessary to arrange for the pensioner to receive a pension in the currency for which he himself is declared. I have an objection to Article 31, paragraph 7, which says, "In the application of this agreement, the Serbian language and language that is officially used in Montenegro and the letters of the Contracting States are equally used." I think the current Serbian language is currently in Montenegro, only I don't know that it won't introduce either Russian.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7664	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian government is fighting corruption only on paper. We can realize that the government in Serbia neither after so-called. democratic changes are not ready to give up unlimited powers and privileges, as the current situation and the chaotic state in which Serbia is presently located. Corruption is the subject of the work of six independent institutions in Serbia: the Anti-Corruption Council, the Committee on Conflict of Interest, the Commissioner for Public Information, the Dolphin or the Protector of Citizens, the Public Procurement Administration and the State Auditing Institution. All these institutions have been in common that the government has not supported them since 2000. The latest data suggests Serbia is in 79th place, out of 180 countries, when it comes to the level of corruption. This data suggests that we belong to the order of states with systemic corruption and that we are a country with very developed corruption. The situation is still far from good, and the root cause of great corruption is the lack of political will of the current government to submit to the institutions of control that would have greater rights to prevent corruption, as mistrust in institutions is a non-compliance, a frightening problem. The issue of corruption broke out first because of the fact that corruption not only prevents foreign investment and significantly inhibits political and economic reforms, but also that tycoons and newly-roasted rich people affect politicians and executive and legislative authorities, judicial and other bodies, in order to adopt regulations that would be in their interest, and obvious examples are the setting up of company sales during the privatisation process. Corruption has, in its essence and forms, the most dangerous form of economic crime, which characterizes coverage, high degree of social danger, many different forms, widespread prevalence, difficult evidence in a criminal and procedural sense, usefulness and a specific object that threatens corruption, which is the legal financing of state institutions and services that protect normal criminal rights. When we talk about the emerging form of corruption in our country, we can say that, according to current criminal and legal practice, criminal acts of corruption are most often revealed in business between public or public sector companies and private enterprises, where, as founders and managers of private enterprises, responsible persons occur in a state-owned enterprise or close relatives and friends, and where a private company through fictitious business with a social or state-owned enterprise, most often through financial transactions, obtains property benefit for the owner of a private enterprise, i.e. for itself. Then, the drastically awareness of state-owned enterprises' assets, when the state-owned enterprise is led to bankruptcy, then purchases in the so-called procedure. property transformations and take over their business; then, illegal arrival to various land building and sale permits and so on. Then, in the case of large-scale procurements in international transactions, as a direct or indirect provision of any material benefit or other value given to a public official who performs his or her legal duties, in order to obtain or retain a job and therefore to obtain a benefit that does not otherwise belong to him under the general rules governing his work. The fight against corruption and its emerging forms is very complex and requires the use of special means and methods, as well as the constant search for new ones. In our country, the big problem is the fact that corruption rarely occurs in pure form, as well as that corruption crimes are difficult to detect. Those who find themselves hard to prove to the material and other evidence needed by the court for complex court proceedings, so in Serbia, a small number of suspects have been convicted for a crime in the area so far. To successfully fight corruption, which is still on the rhetorical level, it is necessary to ensure independence, integrity and depolitisation of the judiciary, as well as to ensure the principle of rule of law, which depends on the success of the fight against corruption. An important way to achieve a society with as little corruption as possible is to create a modern, efficient state, an administrative and executive authority that must be a major defense for corruption, which, with an effective judiciary, will have a crucial role in eradicating corruption. Corruption in Serbia has been so rooted that it has become a common culture and way of surviving under this current power. It becomes normal for someone to bribe and bribe, otherwise nothing can be done. It is hard for one who in Serbia needs to finish a job, such as a lawsuit in court, obtaining some permission, going to a doctor and so on. For several years now, there has been talk of extreme health corruption, and so far there has been no progress in solving this problem. The possibility of abuse in the field of public procurement, opening space and conflict of interest due to the work of doctors in private and state practice and an inadequately regulated institution of protectors of patient rights contributes to corruption in health care. We have a government that has adopted anti-corruption measures as one of its five priorities, but to this day we have no indication of how this fight will be fought, because we have a government that encourages corruption. The first place in corruption is customs, on the second state top, health care, and then state activities, police, municipal and republican services, justice, state and private enterprises. No matter what takes a second place in this order, the public assessment of the corruption of the state summit has the highest weight, because we have corrupt power. When a man turns around, corruption, affairs are everywhere and nothing happens. The bankruptcy mafia, the road mob, the university mafia, the urban mafia, the tycoon issue is not resolved and nothing again. That is why Serbia loses 2 per cent of its national income annually because of the corrupt government. No one to resign, no one to be relieved, no one to be in prison and no one to talk about it. Such reality is in Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7666	Thank you. Dr. Pai Momcilov has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7667	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing a set of laws that have been found in a strange way together. What is interesting, and a general opinion has already been expressed here by us MPs of the SRS, is that these laws are not priority laws for this country and this parliament at the present political moment; not to repeat what laws should have been on the agenda of this Parliament, which are affecting the serious interests of our citizens, so for God's sakes, and this Parliament. What's the characteristic of these laws that we're talking about today is that it's practically not laws, it's a suspension of some laws, it's always some utilitarian benefit for a smaller group of citizens. These laws are not of general interest. We've seen, the tobacco law we bring here when it comes to meeting the tobacco mafia, we bring in a CEFTA agreement that will end, if we get back on this tobacco bill, the tobacco dinar, which the health service has benefited greatly from, and I'm not counting all the other laws now. You can always see that behind those so-called so-called. The law is someone's interest, and it's a partial interest, and it's certainly not the interest of the Serbian citizens. As it is, that's right, we have to work. You see, we have a set of laws where, unfortunately, during the afternoon, we didn't even have an authorised promoter. In this paper that we received, which we discussed a lot yesterday, says this - we are informing you that a representative of the Government in the National Assembly has also been designated by Rasim Ljajic. So the team's getting stronger. There is no Rasim Ljajic in the morning, and the rest of the team is a mirage. It is likely that Mr. Foreign Minister should have explained to us the draft law confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the point of meeting state borders between Serbia and Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania. If the unqualified and incompetent, inexperienced young minister had come, we would have asked him - and what about the other six touch points where we have a meeting of three states? If you look at Serbia's map, it easily falls into the eyes that this is just one point where the borders of the three states meet. We would ask him, so what about the rest of the dots? It's clear that this gentleman wouldn't know how to give us an answer, because a gentleman who ended up abroad with foreign scholarships taught Harvard something from political sciences, something fast, of course, under the Master's Department, probably, when the press asked him, he didn't know how to say Einstein's theory of relativity, what students in high school know. He wouldn't even know how to answer this. Therefore, it is not a great pity that the gentleman is not here and it is not a great pity that we are not discussing such a small matter today. What may be most interesting to the citizens of our country are the conventions on corruption. We have two conventions. One of them is the law confirming the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. We've seen very well that we've passed the law on this convention and, behold, I'll remind you again when it's brought in. We're doing funny things here, doing double jobs and something we've already brought, now we're bringing again; I don't want to bother you with a date, in February the SRJ Parliament passed a law on the ratification of this convention. When it comes to conventions, it's interesting one thing, we got an explanation from the president of the DS parliamentary group that we shouldn't discuss these conventions at all, because they are adopted, they're ratified, so now there's no amendment grooming. In the convention that we are talking about, the MPs of the SRS have shown you that the conventions are subject to amendments by the participating members and that there is a mechanism for how this is done. Corruption is the cancer of this society, we'll all agree. Today when we criticise the work of this government and when we express our critical objections, they attack us and then we hear a return to the ancient past, what we, like, did wrong. If that's true, here's what your friends from abroad tell you where we are by the corruption of 179 countries, we're in 79th place, you can say we're in the endemic corruption zone. That's what the daily papers say, so probably DS MPs know well. It's not this country's problem whether we have regulations or not. We have, in practice, six institutional instruments that address this issue: the Anti-Corruption Council, the Committee on Conflict of Interest, the Commissioner for Public Information, the Public Procurement Administration, the State Audit Committee. But these institutions only exist on paper and figure out, nothing serious can be done and fought against corruption. What the press has already figured out, and the pro-regime, the top of the government is the source of corruption, and that's a fact. So if you just look at the area that I know best, it's health care, in that health corruption flower. This summer, for example, there was an international gathering, the World Bank... I need to talk to you like this, it's not worth it, papers, documents, and you're going to disprove them. Says a World Bank expert, not to read who and who, talking about corruption in countries in transition, look, it's health care, you see, honorary place, fourth in a row, by corruption among undeveloped countries taking over our country. The mechanisms of this corruption are known, now I will not elaborate them because I do not have much time, and my other party comrades, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, should speak as well. I just want to tell you that there is corruption in health care, and that this government has for the third time the man responsible for this corruption. What's scariest, those aunts and aunts, your favorites, from the Helsinki Committee and others have published a safety book this year for 2005 and 2006. You have never been able to hear a worse qualification in this country so far about any health system, and we could see now, this is what Kostunica's government and its health minister are jeopardising the security of Serbian citizens. There is talk of financing reforms and there is talk of heavy corruption and corrupt system laws. It's your government, it's you, you're involved up to your throat in corruption. Why? Mr. Marshall said the money was coming here to the sacks; I'm not going to read you how, you're all corrupt. When we say you're foreign mercenaries, you're angry, and here exactly the amount of 60 million euros has been made, as much as it's invested in you. It was said that when your "retors" went to Budapest to be taught by the U.S. CIA bosses, you always came back with a bunch of sacks of money. Now, that's your heroic battle on barricades -- full pockets of money, interest and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7668	Thank you to the MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov. The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, so let the MP of the people be prepared, the magistrate of Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was obviously the intention of the parliamentary majority in this House to avoid a debate on corruption, a few days ago, by bringing together the incompatible, and by that people's "do not think of Vlasi", I would say the crime that is greater in this country today than ever. But Vlasi does, so these two days we've been listening to stories about corruption and crime in Serbia. Of course, it's an inexhaustible topic, you can talk about it for months, not just a few days, but regardless of what is the dominant theme of this agenda point, I'm going to focus your attention on something else. The 16th item of the agenda bears the name of the bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the point of meeting state borders between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania. Of course I have a serious intention to convince the parliamentary majority not to accept this proposal, to return this to the government, to make a similar agreement again. I have very serious, I think strong arguments about it. That's why I can't accept what Mrs. Kolundjia said yesterday - that this debate is formal, that these are agreements that have already been signed and that we are only discussing the order here, that ministers are not even needed in this debate. I seriously want to challenge this agreement signed on 19 April 2006 in Novi Sad. It was signed before the government of the Republic of Serbia by then by Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic. It is not disputed what he signed, it is controversial that it was signed at that time, and it is about the moment when Montenegro was in the referendum and, I would say, an anti-Serbian campaign to separate Serbia, or to create an independent Montenegro. I don't understand why or who was smart in the government to make such an agreement at all and to go into a job like this if it was already known by then, and it was known that Montenegro would separate from Serbia. From this material that has been delivered to us, it is seen that on this three-way point, this point where three countries are facing each other, one bordermark will be placed. It is a three-sided pyramid that will have on its sides the coat of arms of the three countries that are being touched there. That, of course, is nothing controversial. They are given in this proposal the look, the sketch of the pyramid, the dimensions and everything else that matters. However, the photographs of this pyramid that were given on all three sides of the material that we received are unclear, i.e. it is not clear what is on that pyramid at all. On the site of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I sought this and came to the realization that on the side of this pyramid facing Serbia stands the coat of arms of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I ask you now, as the majority who supports the government, is it normal for us, a year and a half after Montenegro's separation from Serbia, to have at our border the mark of the state that has ceased to exist?- I'm sorry. If that's normal, you vote for it, but you have to tell the people clearly and loud why you're doing it. Why are you doing this? If this is not a matter of vital importance for Serbia, why not wait, why is this not corrected? Article 6(3) states nicely: "This agreement can be amended or supplemented by written means, only by mutual consent by all three parties to the signatories. "That means there's a possibility, regular, correct, to change this. The governments of Romania and Hungary will accept it because it is our internal thing to stand on our side. A year ago, or more than that, we adopted in this country the mark of this state, by consensus, or by the will of everyone in this assembly, and it seems to me that the citizens of Serbia have accepted it; so we have a Serbian coat of arms, we have a state of Serbia, and it is logical that on our side of this pyramid stands the coat of arms of arms of the Republic of Serbia, not the coat of arms of arms of the state that no longer exists. I ask you once again to think about this and not to accept it in the voting day, so that this will return and correct itself, and only then accept it correctly in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7670	I thank the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7671	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just like counterpart Mrkonjic, counterpart Albianic and my smallness have received a delegation of employees at the Belgrade Stock Houses, workers who have been standing in the rain for eight hours and are seeking their rights on the streets of Belgrade, on the street of Serbian rulers. They weren't allowed to, because the police stopped them from coming to the National Assembly building, a few dozen of them managed to break through. I've received a delegation of people who are familiar with the state of the company, with the illegal bankruptcy procedure and the law against them. It is one of the major robberies in Serbia, which has been going on for six years. As I could find out in previous assembly meetings, these new details only confirm that what he says all day, and all these years, the Serbian Radical Party – our judiciary is completely corrupt, ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, both current and former, are directly involved in the robbery of the company of the Robe House "Belgrade". This has just been confirmed to me by people who are asking me to take out a few more information from the congregation pay phone. Otherwise, their request is clear. They're ready to strike hunger in the company's administrative building rooms. They want to continue negotiations with Mladjan Dinkic, no later than two days ago, because a year and a half ago the Anti-Organised Crime Administration provided complete documentation on the involvement of Slobodan Milosavljevic, a member of the Democratic Party, a former minister of trade and tourism, and then the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and now the Minister of Agriculture, in all these illegal proceedings. I've been informed that DOS's government in the past seven years has actually made the appointment of five bankruptcy managers... Especially in the period from 2002 to 2005, when there was no trustee committee, which now cannot make real insight into the state of affairs, as the company's assets stand; they estimate it is a total of about 27 hectares and 20 acres of the country's Bezenian hair. Otherwise, the documentation submitted to the Privatisation Agency, i.e. potential buyers, disappeared 17 hectares of the country. Then you see on only one occasion what a robbery is, that workers don't know, and that trustees and bankruptcy managers, of which this Djurdjevic is already in prison, as one of the players so-called. The bankruptcy mafia and that justice is being carried out selectively, that Prosecutor Radovanovic did not want to act on their request. It is also obvious from the data that two hotels, four department stores, were sold in the meantime, and they were not informed about how the whole property was being pulled up and robbed. Having burned to the nail, they resolved, seeing that neither minister, first Milosavljevic, then Bojan Dimitrijevic, or Djindjic, or Zivkovic, or Kostunica's government wanted to help them, that at the places of bankruptcy managers and trustees and the Privatisation Agency they had set up people who were robbing, who, in turn with those who bought these facilities for boughs, profited from the torture of these poor people, they decided to self-organize and to follow the talks they had with Mladjan Dinkic, who now does not want to receive them, go on their own to promote what is called the Robe House company. I note that it is one of the few companies that has so much property and whose value is still very high today and the total value of the debt circus around 140m euros. Based on their style, and especially after the fact that no one from the government looked at them after 23 January, when many of them strike hunger, they sent a circulatory letter to the addresses of 11 embassies accredited in Belgrade. Mladjan Dinkic spoke to them and offered them a certain scale on which workers will be calmed, according to the graduation, in the case of hypothetically, that the company should be sold for more than 250m euros. Since workers themselves organised and played a role in management and made contact with those 11 countries, or embassies, on the basis of current customer applications (which is still within the domain of business secrets, until the final opening of these offers, therefore, on 29 October o.g.), it is quite evident, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that the company of the Robna house "Belgrade" can reach even a price of half a billion euros. So three times what Mladjan Dinkic estimated. That is why it is clear to the workers why he refuses every conversation with them and why he addresses them through the media, because he told them that, since it is obvious that it is 140m euros, between 140m and 170m euros in revenue goes to the Republic of Serbia budget; from 170m to 200m euros, if the company is sold for that amount, the workers, and eight and a half thousand, will get 10%; from 200m to 250m 20%; and all over 250m euros are 25%. He is now restricting them by how Dinkic calculated it, because he should continue to steal and put him, a criminal and a thief, in his pocket, and to make peace with the others in the Robing Houses system, because it is a whole chain of criminals and mobsters, since it is quite obvious that the company can be sold for a minimum of half a billion euros, you see where workers are now in the whole story. To the poor 100 euros per year of internships. They won't, because based on this bill and the complete documentation that exists for what I'm talking about and which has been in the UBOPK for a year and a half, which Prosecutor Radovanovic did not want to consider, because, as one lady said, if they put him under the scanner, his abuses and how to protect criminals in this country, it wouldn't be pleasant... I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to get serious, to do your job, to call you to the SRS, and to prevent October 29th another big robbery from taking place in our country, to save what we can save, given that all these facilities and that a large part of the property of the Robing House system has gone into the pockets of criminals in this country. It is therefore necessary that both the committees responsible and the MPs who are members of those committees should be published on this issue. We'll have complete documentation on this delivered to our addresses tomorrow. The most work here should be done by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privatisation and the Trade Committee, especially the Committee on Defence and Security, i.e. to ask the UBOPK authorities why these people, who robbed the Robing Houses, have never been heard before, have never been brought in, and why none of the authorities in this country wanted to deal with the question of robbing this company. If you think that this is how you continue to house and sell out everything in Serbia and go unpunished, if Mladjan Dinkic thinks he can talk to workers who are standing in the rain all day and not realize them, that he does not receive them, be sure that they will take even more organised and truly justified methods of their work. In that we will certainly help them as a political party, advertising from this place and elsewhere where it is possible to hear the voice of those people that you did not let come in greater numbers in front of the National Assembly building. What are you afraid of, the truth and the fact that the minister is up to his neck, as well as his predecessors, involved in crime and the sale of state property? Therefore, it is a reminder for you now, since there is still enough time to examine everything and to have the competent state authorities prosecute those who have committed these robberies and to have the prosecutor do his job properly and as appropriate to the state prosecutor. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again I warn you not to go over this just because you all got this paper at the entrance to the Assembly this morning, where it clearly stands on what kind of robbery it is. Or are you going to say that these people are lying and are willing to falsify the data for some of their own good and get it? No, I don't. They want to withdraw from all this, but you know when – the moment when the state gives them what they owe them and when they get 20% of the sale of the property for which they themselves are responsible for being sold at such a high price. Many privatisations have been made in Serbia over the past seven years, when factories have been sold into devastation. Remember the criminals of DS and DOS, when they bought candy and cements for 2-3 euros each. Well, it's not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, These are today enormously wealthy people, people who did not respect the social program. Mrs. Kolundzija, in no company in Serbia where owners have committed to respecting the social programme, he is not respected. The president of the Committee on Business and Privatisation is also very well aware of this; this is you, Mr. Novakovic, who is a member of the party or company G 17. (President: Time, Miss Natasha. Here, I'm done. But, Mr. Mrkonja, it's much more important, and Mrs. Kolundjia, what I'm saying about you right now, and I'm wasting your precious time than 1,500 people standing on the street. If it's you, and if we go from there, I'm going to ask you a question... (President: Don't, Natasha, please.) ) Let's start with you being, say, but that's rare in the Democratic Party, an honest woman and a person; that's really rare, but let's just say that you are. How, then, as an honest person, do you allow such things to be done without investing all your political authority, as president of the ruling parliamentary group, to invite the minister to receive these people, to continue talking to them? So he wrote them off. There's work to be done for you, Mr. Ljajic, and I'm asking you to get serious, it's the fate of a large number of people, and once and for all, to stop the robbery, and that those who did this all end up in prison and where they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7672	Thank you, Natasha. Wait a minute, there are four speakers in the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to beg... I understand, Natasha, that people are standing in the street, in the rain, but well, we're past that now. Free Maras by Business First, then Mr Nikola Novaković, second according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Riza Halimi third, then Mr. Baralić fourth, then Mrs. Nada - fifth. That's the order of speakers in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7673	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've reported in connection with Article 226. As an MP, I have the right to ask for some explanations and some answers. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that Prime Minister Kostunica would in no way come to this assembly and I am deeply interested in the country in which he lives, does he know what's going on in this country and does he know that yesterday, veterans and fighters looking for their remaining diaries protested in front of the government? Does he know that today people who have been in bankruptcy have been protesting in front of the congregation for years? Does he know the police are beating him on mosques and fascists are trying to march the streets? And now, if we should wait here for Mr. Petrovic's Justice Minister, who was announced to be here on behalf of the government, comes Mr. Ljajic, who does not include himself and I can fully understand that. We have some questions for Mr Petrovic, Minister of Justice. Yesterday, an interview with a man currently in prison came out on a daily list. I'd like to ask, if you can, how can a person who's in prison give an interview that's on the daily list? I'm asking a question -- who do they work for in that prison and whether they work for the state or work for a criminal association that already knows which way they're trying to replace the thesis. We've had an opportunity since March 12th to watch a criminal association try to replace the thesis and accuse victims of trying to kill themselves or kill themselves. Yesterday, an interview with one accused of causing peaceful protests, known to be a Nazi, and who brought with him people who welcomed "Zig Hail" and held hands like the Nazis held during World War II. In the interview, he boasted that police inspectors, who detained and interrogated him, supported him, encouraged him. In the same interview, he, taught by this criminal association, tried to replace the the thesis and the most hopeless lie and stupidity he said – that the only one who hailed with "zig hail" and held his hand high, as held by the Nazis, was planted by the LDP and that it was a member of the LDP from Bačka Jark. It's an absolute lie. We here have footage that has been received by media today in Novi Sad and will receive media in Belgrade. It shows that not only did one person raise a high hand and shout "zig hail", but more people. We responsibly claim that since we have 28 members in Bačka Jark and two of them are about the same age as those in the picture, we also have their names, that none of them are in jail and neither of them were at the protest, because the people who did this are currently in custody. Just a little attention, please, because this is very important. The state doesn't do its job. The state authorities don't do what they're supposed to do. They let things get to breaking heads and having blood on the street and only then intervene. The state runs into the mosque and beats the priests. We have a big problem with state authorities. Those ministers who should give us answers... I am deeply convinced that the minister of justice will do his best to give us some explanations. How is it possible that a man in custody is giving an interview, is it true or is it an imaginary interview, and who helped him? We expect answers to these questions, because we cannot live in such a country that those who are convicted and who are awaiting a third sentence for the worst crime give an interview that goes on below. Now we have a case with this Davidovic, who is out of custody giving an interview. Obaška is attacking political opponents of the criminal association there, rather than bringing up such lies that we have to react to. We really expect from the Minister of Justice... As the Secretary of Defense, for whom I have all due respect, for the questions we've asked him about this pay phone, he still answered through the media and said he didn't support any Führer, that he didn't know the man and that it was an faceless lie, and I accept that. I also expect the Minister of Justice to say that it is possible. Someone has to protect the citizens of this country, and they have to... What? If you have anything to say to me, I'd like you to come out here and tell me. (President: Don't, please, communicate, don't do this. I would really like to hear from you the answer to that question. The minister of justice is from the ranks of your party, who withdrew from the protests that were mutually agreed; then through the media he tries to explain that the leaders of the Duke of your party had private obligations, so they were not there, and they were guilty of those who were there. Please answer some questions, or at least let the minister of justice answer those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7674	Please don't communicate with the pay phone. The word is Mr Nikola Novakovic, president of the Privatisation Committee, according to the Rules of Procedure. After that, Mr. Riza Halimi, then Mr. Baralic, then Mrs. Hope Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7675	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know, but it's not burning again, so until the last lady I'm fighting for the right of every MP to stick to the agenda and the subject that's on the agenda from this pay phone is talking nonsense. Because it's not forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. But it is forbidden not to tell the truth (that's Article 104), which offends the reputation of this congregation and insults all of us here to each other, and from here to there, and from there to here. That's not nice. I reported for the presentation of Miss Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, who said a lot in 11.5 minutes. But I don't know why Mladjan Dinkic is guilty because it's raining outside; Mladjan Dinkic is guilty of cheating on a woman, Mladjan Dinkic is, in general, the on-call culprit for everything and everything. The fact is that the big problem, very difficult to solve, has just been the fate of people employed in the Belgrade Robing Houses, who have been in bankruptcy for a long time. It's between seven and eight thousand people. In an extremely correct and reasoned conversation on both sides there was also satisfaction with the solution offered and which is only realistic and possible, which is that, depending on the success of the public tender that has been called up, and it is true that it lasts until the end of this month, workers are compensated in certain percentages. This fulfills another obligation, and that is another part of their sharer's right. Who, when and why seduced this unfortunate group of 200 people to seek over the real possibilities something that no worker in this country got, and that's 20%, I don't know. I'm not going to win, I'm not going to point left or right. My message to them is that they think well before they get a sneeze or flu, because I'm afraid the maximum of what's offered and realistically accepted by, I can't say most, I can say of all, and these unfortunate people, they're seduced, just the exception that confirms that rule. I will now go and talk to them and invite them tomorrow to come again and try to find a reasonable solution to this problem. Also, I promise, one of the next Committee sessions will be dedicated to this particular problem after the bids are opened. It is true about Mladjan Dinkic and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and that will be true and the Privatisation Committee when I schedule it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7676	I would like to thank the president of the Privatisation Committee, Mr. Novakovic. The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic, the People's Messenger of Nada Kolundzija, and the People's Messenger of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7677	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the presence of Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who is also the chairman of the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, under Article 226. Mr. Minister told reporters in the National Assembly yesterday that the leaders of Albanian parties from southern Serbia are trying to draw attention to the situation in southern Serbia at a time when negotiations on Kosovo's status are being held; on the other hand, Albanian parties are preparing for local elections in southern Serbia, and the indictment of Belgrade and seeking to help the international community is always used to score easy political points in front of voters. Since last week, in discussions held in the National Assembly, also in a negative context has been mentioned by the Declaration of the Albanian Council, I feel it is necessary to make this declaration that the legitimate representatives of Albanians in this area have been overly addressed to state institutions, and above all to the Government of the Republic of Serbia (I also addressed Prime Minister Kostunica in writing), to change, so far, inadequate and irrational, the approach to solving very serious and sensitive life problems in this area. Of course, I am looking for answers to important questions, such as -- how did there be a drastic reduction in funds for the Coordination Body in 2007? How is it possible that out of 366 million dinars intended for the Co-ordination Body, only 240 million reach the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and that more than one third, as a fairy tale intended for this area, goes for the costs of an administration in which only one Albanian is employed and translated? If the Co-ordination Body does not include Albanians, how will such a Coordination Body integrate Albanians into state structures in which Albanians only have symbolic numbers and municipalities where they are located, in Bujanovac more than 55% and in Presevo more than 90%? Given that the last reorganisation of the abolished co-ordination committee on education, culture, information, health care, the question is how these sensitive problems from these very important areas of life will be solved. If the astronomical figures that are allegedly invested in these three municipalities, and for this there has never been an analysis and insight, I ask the question how is it possible for this area to remain at a very low level of economic development? Presevo municipality is the most undeveloped municipality in the competition of all other municipalities in the country. How was it possible, despite the expensively paid administration of the Coordination Body, that the privatisation process in the Presevo municipality is performed non-transparently and with a lot of manipulations, so the company "Electrocontact" with 50 workers is sold for ridiculous 270,000 dinars? Due to the collapse of sales of a solid company "July 7th", its workers have been without any means of living for more than a year, while past sales have only enabled customers to be enriched. Companies that used to have 200 and more workers now work at 20, and most of them don't work at all. Gentlemen, if after several years of difficulty this government has found the means to complete a special force base, I ask the question why did it interrupt the reconstruction of the House of Culture facility, the only cultural institution in the municipality with more than 35,000 inhabitants? For years, why hasn't he done anything to create conditions to re-work an outpatient maternity home, or to create minimum conditions for young people in Presevo to be engaged in sports, like their peers in other municipalities? Also, why is there no concrete step to allow for higher education for young Albanians in the area? Finally, I consider it a cynical remark from Minister Ljajic that asking for assistance from the international community means obtaining easy, cheap political points in this area. I would like to remind you that the government of the Republic of Serbia has just addressed the international aid community to address the crisis in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. That's why I think it's incorrect that the material aid provided by the international community in these seven years is spoken in such an offensive way. I don't think it's a pre-election campaign for local elections either, because the elections are not yet scheduled, nor are the attempts to transfer and call for the current Kosovo status issue, nor the charges against Belgrade, but rather the very serious demands that citizens from the area are making to the government and state institutions to resolve them in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7678	I thank Mr. Halimi. Minister Ljajic picked up the words. Here you go. I apologize to the MPs, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7679	I thought I'd pick up at the end on the agenda point, namely the ratification of the Social Security Agreement with Montenegro. I'll see about that later. I had to react to Mr. Halimi's exposure. So my answer is the same as the one I gave the previous days, and it concerns the requirement for NATO troops to reach the south of Serbia. Mr. Halimi knows, as I do, that the request has been made public by one of the Kosovo political leaders and one of the So Bujanovac officials. The fact that this representative of one political party is not in the same party as Mr. Halim does not mean in any case that such requests were not, true, not of his, but of other political parties. So my answer is identical -- the request is completely unrealistic. Too bad, first of all, for people living in southern Serbia. The international community is absolutely not taking this request more seriously and my answer was that. I still argue that it's picking up cheap political points, because everyone knows, every citizen of Presevo and Bujanovac, that it's impossible to happen and realize. As for the investment of funds, Mr. Halimi, you and all 250 MPs can come and see where every dinar in southern Serbia went, at least while I'm president of the Coordination Body. We were literally a "probable water heater" - what you were looking for, we transferred those funds to local self-government; for those projects that you were running for, we were giving. Although I don't think that's the best way, because then it happened that Serbs from Bujanovac rightly say that only 5% of these funds went to Bujanovac, to settlements where Serbs live, and 95% where Albanians live. To make some kind of balance, aside from the 240 million you mentioned here, we're going to set aside another 50 million for the settlements where Serbs live. So, at any time anyone can see where every penny is spent. I am convinced that more has been invested in these three municipalities than in any other three municipalities. I'd be delighted if some of those funds were invested in Sandzak municipalities. If you look at the situation, I think it was sooner to form a coordination body for Sandzak than for southern Serbia, because there is a situation in every sense today worse than the situation in southern Serbia. It is true that there is not yet the economic development that we expected, perhaps you, too, rightly, because we started literally not from scratch, but below zero; that these three municipalities were the poorest, that they were still among the poorest; that they were invested, indeed, by both the state of the Republic of Serbia budget and by international donors, where the international community was more present in these three municipalities than in any other region. I think one big score has been made. Of course, there are still many problems left to solve. I'm going back and I repeat for the tenth time, the reconstruction of the Coordination Body is more administrative-technical than political matter. And none of these areas that you are now mentioning, education or health care have been abolished, they are only involved in this sector of integration. You've had objections, like me, that the existing structure of the Coordination Body, with eight subgroups, is too bureaucratic, too complicated, that it doesn't produce any result; we have reduced this to three large areas, and these areas you mention are crucial to the process of integration: education, justice and health. There are things I totally agree with, that we should do them, but we shouldn't go round and round and repeat the same stories. Repeating those same stories seems to me like picking up political points. If someone is looking for NATO, and knows that NATO will never come to southern Serbia, then it is either completely beyond any reality, or it is real, but that reality brings certain political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7680	I thank Minister Rasim Ljajic. Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered the words. Mr. Halimi, but before him, four more speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7681	Mr. Mr. Mr. Ljajic, it didn't exactly start from scratch, there was a lot of stuff in this country, and then there's the upgrade. That's not why I answered. There was information here that the vice-presidents of the Assembly, MPs, were receiving a delegation of the Robe houses of Belgrade. My colleague Petronijevic and I invited them and I am obliged to say a few things to make it clear what this is all about. We call on fellow Members of Parliament to propose and form a survey committee on the situation in the "Belgrade" Stock Houses system and show how it is possible to make so-called "Belgrade". "Monine" hotel on Zlatibor sells for a lower price than the market price of construction land on Zlatibor or to show a whole series of other things, so I don't take your time now. I call on you to form a survey committee and call all the actors and show that it is not possible for someone who has 500 thousand squares of built business space in glass and marble, who has 25 ha of country, to get 200 euros per year, with an explanation that funds are needed for the budget, which is otherwise true. But from that same budget, from the public enterprises of Serbia, Telekom and others, from the administration, from education and from health care, 600 euros are paid after the missing year of the insurance company's retirement internship, and 250 euros per year is an insurance for the collective's lifetime. To translate that into an understandable language, it's 20,000 euros for someone to do the honors and leave the collective. Are workers of Belgrade Robing Houses who literally have nothing to eat, obliged to finance these 20,000-euro severances? I call on you to together, in order for it to be normal, form a survey committee and determine whether the largest retail and wholesale network in the Balkans can not serve 7,000 employees, 200 euros per year in insurance costs. Once again, six bankruptcy managers. We are particularly interested in the way the "Belgrade" goods houses in BiH were estranged. Let's ask Danica Draskovic, whose nephews, godmothers and uncles sold this, how much money it was, to see how the most expensive staging in Serbia is financed, and to ask many more of those who today claim to live only from the collected works of Vuk Draskovic. So, there's a lot of unspeakable stuff here. A respected colleague, Novakovic, came out. It's not a two-hundred, esteemed colleague. Why this form - 200? It's 200 families, it's 1,000 people, it's one thing from what's left at home. It's 200 fates or 8,000 fates. I'm done. Let's form a survey board, let's not be afraid of anything, let's call all these people and ask why they're V.D. Public prosecutor Radovanovic cheated in his cabinet, why UBOPK does not do what needs to be done, why the state secret is what it comes to in the analysis of all this data. Who does that belong to? Once again, please, it is impossible for 150 euros to be a square meter of Mona's hotel on Zlatibor; try to rent a tent for that money, so you will understand that this is not possible. We'll take the initiative, support it, form a survey board and come up with an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7682	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. I thank Nadia Kolundjia, giving up. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem of Belgrade Robing Houses is nothing new. Mr Baralic was the chairman of the Committee on Trade and Tourism in the previous assembly, I was his deputy and we received delegations of workers on several occasions. But then they couldn't give us this data they gave us today, especially because of the fact that there was no trustee board and that the valuation of the value of the capital was made only in 2006, so that they were finally able to find out how the property was robbed, how these department houses were sold, that is, all of these facilities, and what they have today. Mr. Novakovic escaped from the O.R., left without, as chairman of the Committee, giving the right information. First of all, I have to tell you that, at the address of the president of his party, he has suspended the possibility of getting into the agenda of these problems and robbing privatisations on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privatisation. The matter has already become so obvious throughout Serbia, and you yourselves have witnessed, as you have obtained material from your cities, that the Committee has been overcrowded with documentation on robbery privatisation, disproved workers. Should I perhaps remind you of the fact that our late colleague, who was in the Privatisation Committee, carried his house to Valjevo 150 kilos of material about the robbery of the people and the state to read and study how many people they robbed? Among other things, the documentation related to the Belgrade Robing Houses. This is a very clear thing now, because it's not about being seduced; it's not about these people being seduced, they're honest, they're moral and they're worth it, and if they're going to get it, as he did, and I don't know what he drank, and how he could have said something so rude, or sneezed or coughed, it's not about it, ladies and gentlemen MPs, it's about helping them exercise their rights. You know what the Labour Act was brought to Serbia, and in what way -- it was voted by the Thessaloniki card. Later changes and additions to the law, which returned some rights to workers, were suspended after 15 days, as Minister Slobodan Lalovic appeared, so all of what we, most of whom were created at one point, corrected to the amendments, for the benefit of the workers, returned to the initial state. It's clear here. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic, Minister Cvetkovic, Bozidar Djelic, Vojislav Kostunica, may all have thought until a few days ago that the value of the "Belgrade" goods houses is much lower than this price that will be achieved when these offers are opened. Because, even though five bankruptcy managers have changed (one of them is this Delinka Djurdjevic, only one in prison), and what property has been drawn, without being able to have insight into all this, some happiness has happened for all of them, and now they've found out when they sent that circulatory letter, that most of the property has been preserved and that the Robing Houses may be able to sell, God forbid it is more, but also for half a billion euros. To them personally, Minister Dinkic during the conversation... That's what they told me, it's not something we read in the press, it's not something someone found out in some informal conversation. These people who were here now, so it's the president of the workers' assembly, those who followed the bankruptcy procedure as far as they could track, those who were given an insight into the capital assessment documents, these people went, as they came to us today, to talk to him. Not to say again, he gave them that scale and he told them -- so much goes to the state, and everything that goes beyond that, 25%, that it's distributed to eight and a half thousand workers, and they now want it to be; you got 20% in this memo and it's not unrealistic because of the fact that there's still valuable assets left to sell. I'd understand that they're looking for something that wouldn't be for the state's benefit, but the state is going to get more into the budget of the moment that the Robne house is being sold, and it's obvious it will, for such a high price. Therefore, it is not necessary to mock people in this way. They'll show up here tomorrow, come with the paperwork, and ours is to protect them. Whoever doesn't do it will be punished in the next election and from those people, from their families and all those who follow this and see how the robbery of state property and how the workers are chicanned, like the ones who came today, and who didn't have the opportunity to meet with the resolution minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7684	The word has a folk MP Slavisa Topalovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Srdjan Sajn, Riza Halimi, and Mrs Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7685	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. We just heard Mr. Nikola Novakovic, president of the privatisation committee of the Serbian Parliament. According to him, Mladjan Dinkic is a saint, so he is not guilty of this, so he is not guilty of this, so you mentioned that it is not his fault that it rains, that he is not guilty when someone cheats on his wife. It is Mladjan Dinkić's fault and you know it well; the people say that he saw Mladjan Dinkic, when you mention it, on Ban's hill at night, wearing a wig; to whom he went and hid, he knows best. Everywhere Mladjan Dinkic is, there's a robbery. Where G17 is involved, there's another robbery. Look at the Robe houses, among other things, the country on Bezanjska hair, a good location for investors, and there is a G17 and Mladjan Dinkic accused. Agricultural well-being "13 May" in Zemun, a huge amount of land and location along the Belgrade highway - Novi Sad. Agricultural goods workers "May 13th" poured gasoline on G17 plus and Mladjan Dinkic. Everywhere there's a capital G17 involved his fingers. How you got on the political scene is followed by that bad voice. It's a people's assessment of everyone's and the assessment of the G17 people is to deal with crime and thieving. When it comes to your President, Mladjan Dinkic, Dinkic, the expert on thieving, to continue from a moment ago, I reported to the Rules of Procedure... (President: Slavisha, don't use words like that. I'm just saying what's... So, Mr. Dinkic, an expert on thieving, who has already been Minister for the second time in your governments. The privatisation of the National Savings Bank is one of the biggest robberies in the area that has been carried out, with a lot of details from former police minister Dusan Mihajlovic. What's the role in this privatisation of two companies, a small collective and a "Squadra"? Who are the owners of these companies, where is the headquarters of these companies that bought the National Savings Bank, whose money was it and when it was taken out of the country? I note that these questions should be asked Dusan Mihajlovic what he knows about it and what he would have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7686	The word is from MP Srdjan Shin, who also advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7687	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I am not in favour of the absence of the Serbian or Albanian people being separated and talking about the lack of one or other people. I think that not having every citizen in Serbia is an equally important problem and that the state must equally care about the lack of each citizen. I think it is responsibility for all political parties, when they talk about Bujanovac, not to forget that about 12% of Roma live in Bujanovac and that there are about 5,000-6,000 members of the Roma national community. We cannot remember the president of that national community only in the elections and tell them that we will represent them equally as all other representatives. I think that's what I expected from Mr. Reese Halimi today, and about what kind of situation the Roma live in in Salvatore, because that's where his party runs the power. I also expected Minister Rasim Ljajic to present data and not only to talk about 5% of the total budget directed towards members of the Serbian national community and about 95% of the funds towards members of the Albanian national community. We need to talk either in general about helping solve problems with all the citizens of the Bujanovec, or, if we are already doing an analysis according to nationality, we need to ask the question in which way we will provide 12% of the resources to solve problems in Roma settlements. It is not enough if we are making a transformer at the entrance to the Roma settlement in Bujanovac, to allocate funds because we are motivated by certain programmes of the international community. We need to show responsibility in a very specific way and that we are ready to carry out what we are talking about during the elections consistently for four years, each from that position we received during the election and election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7688	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7689	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'll go back to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I think further explanations are necessary on the issues raised. As for NATO's call, I think it was absolutely not the subject of a declaration by the Albanian committee assembly, which was recently held. I think we've made that very clear to the public. Mr Ljajic made the same statement last week, related directly to the work of the assembly, so that it is now absolutely not an actual statement given a month or two ago by the president of a political party or political entity. It is current these days that the Albanian assembly, which came out with a declaration and there is no such statement in the declaration, but is seeking to continue to help the international community in solving the problem in the area as it has been over the past seven years. The whole point is here, and I don't see why there's confusion around a decadent thought in that congregation. Furthermore, as far as the body's work analysis is concerned, that's what we've been looking for all along. I also addressed the government directly in 2004, but there was no analysis, we were ignored. I would not now enter into an analysis of this or that period, it is necessary to analyse the overall functioning of the Coordination Body from 2000 to today, so that it knows exactly what has been done, what has not been done, where the funds are directed, and that we are then able to reason, rather than through a particular political campaign and without arguments creating the wrong picture of these investments. The minister himself said five percent. People of God, that's absolutely not true, it's just certain political flossules given on the ground, which have been transferred here to the congregation, on several occasions, but without arguments. Let's see, since 2001, in a dinar, in which settlements are what is directed and where what is invested. Then we can talk. Of course, as a result of this logic, we heard the other day that a co-ordination body official reached the 60-40 percent investment formula, which the future Co-ordination Body needs to do, in terms of Albanian and Serbian settlements. Where are the mixed settlements then? Then she's right to wonder - where are the Roma? When it comes to Roma, I think Mr. Shane has an obligation to further say it's a refugee settlement, which is the fate of all the settlements in this country, which are probably looking for a far better treatment than it's ever been. We're speaking with argument. I tend to have every project justified and that there can be no mechanical pattern, some percentage with this much or so, because I wonder who actually came up with that percentage, in which way, by which method. It's important that all the work is transparent. (President: Thank you, Mr. Halimi. I would only like to add that I would ask in this analysis to see if this story is true that there is much more invested in these municipalities than in others. That's not true, gentlemen, I'm responsible for your claim. Take the reports from the Office of Statistics of the Republic of Serbia and you will see that both Tutin and Novi Pazar and Sjenica and a series of other municipalities had far more investment than Presevo. (President: Thank you, Mr. Halimi. ) While Tutin was earlier, Presevo was now convincing in the last place, and in relation to the Shop, Medvedje, Tutin and all other municipalities, even in Razanj (one MP mentioned him a while ago), which has twice the income per capita head rather than the Presevo municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7690	The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7691	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, behold, miracles, may be women. So, I am the folk MP, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. I've reported for breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 104, 105 and 106. I will not give qualifications on the accusations that have been made, because if someone is talking about some kind of wigs, night wanders, etc., it can only be his personal problem, but it is not something that the Assembly seriously needs to discuss. As for the Serbian Radical Party, I would like to remind you that the G17 plus in court has won you for libel. It will happen every time you speak like this. So the SRS MP was convicted of defamation by Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic. So whenever you move words like "hospitals", you can add freely, every time you're ready to prove it in court, because when you're in court for such slanders, then, dear colleagues and colleagues, you call for parliamentary immunity, you stay away from the court, you're inaccessible to court, you don't show up for five or six times at the hearing. Who? Mr. Cvetanović, your MP. (Chairman: Please don't throw the MP away.) Please, I don't throw an MP. (President: I'm not telling you. ) So, let's see you in court for each of these slanders, but you show up at the hearing, say in your defense what you have, and the court will say what it has, as he said and in the case I've been talking about. However, I did not answer for it, I answered, Mr. Chairman, because there is indeed a need to protect the dignity of the Assembly. Please, if an MP who is insultingly expressing himself about other MPs, about ministers or the amount of accusations that are absolutely out of his mind, you say, "I beg you not to do this, I beg you," and he continues, it is something that really threatens the dignity of the National Assembly. No wonder citizens don't trust each other, if the vice president can come out and say that some MP probably had something to drink and that's why he's saying it. As far as I know, Mr. Chairman, MPs don't drink at work. I've never seen a coworker or a coworker drink, drink something, or work in that condition. So, I ask you all to keep together the dignity of the Assembly, so that we can work, so that citizens have confidence in us, and I believe that the vast majority of us deserve it. Therefore, I ask you to use your business opportunities and powers and on such occasions to give notice or punishment to MPs who behave in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7692	I thank Mrs. Plassic. Before I give my word to Nemanja Sarovic, I have to take the opportunity now, not because I'm upset, but very positive. When I accepted this function, on the proposal of my comrades, with the support of Mr Tomislav Nikolic (whom I now congratulate my granddaughter, since I was not here yesterday, this is the most beautiful detail today), I assumed that I was sitting at the head of the 250 most influential and wisest heads in this country, that people should not be constantly told that they are three minutes in question, that people should not be reminded of what difficult words are. I haven't said one word to either of you. Although he knows me a lot, there were times when personal insults were sent to my account, of course, and at the expense of my President Slobodan Milosevic, I did not react. So I think if this high house values itself, and 250 MPs think they should work, then we should all try to protect the dignity of this assembly. One here is in no condition, even if he was Dulic, who is the president, and the four of us, the five vice presidents. We must, please, all work together to protect dignity and respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. I thank you in advance, and I will try to use exactly what you say from now on, but using the Rules of Procedure doesn't give us a solution if we're not aware of it ourselves. Please, and here I always insist on the presidents of the parliamentary groups, who on the night we elected the government showed a high degree of authority and knowledge that this difficult moment was overcome. Before I give my word to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I would like to read just one brief confirmation of the mandate to the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have received a report from the Administrative Board confirming that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal from the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dr Vesni Parezanovic, elected from the DS-Boris Tadic election list. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MP, Dr Vesni Parezanovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election on behalf of the MPs of the Assembly. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7693	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mr. Halimi, you're always talking about some sort of problem solving down there and saying it's necessary to actively involve the international community. What's the problem down there, Mr. Halimi, is that you don't respect the state where you live, you don't respect the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I've cited a few specific examples the last time, and you're out of this room afterwards. I hope you stay this time and answer what I say. First of all, when it comes to the Roma, there are not so many Roma, there are between 2,000 and 3,000, I wouldn't reduce it, but there are about 3,000 Roma. Many of them are members of the Serbian Radical Party. There's no such thing as animosity to the Roma just because of it. A similar problem is also in Serbian villages. Nothing is invested in Serbian villages either. So the best indicator of how Riza Halimi sees democracy is that he just said about this speaker - the Albanian assembly. It's not an Albanian assembly, it's a citizens' assembly, but you're experiencing it one wrong way. The fact that you are experiencing it exclusively as an Albanian assembly is clear from what you have done on the highway to the Great Trnovec, but it has not occurred to you to do something for the Lopardinians, to do something (so, Mr. Rizzo Halimi, I do not know why you are surprised, but clearly, let's say) for the Kleniks, the Serbian village. Have you been there recently? What does the infrastructure look like, and what does it look like in Albanian villages? Did you do something for Krshvica? You're not. Are you for any Serbian village? You're not. That's the situation with Roma settlements. Says Mr. Riza Halimi - the Roma fled from Kosovo and Metohija. He didn't say who they ran away from. Who'd they run away from? What can Roma expect in Bujanovac if, God forbid, and it will not come true, the plans of Riza Halimi and these political ones, to say the political, group he leads? They can expect the same thing they got in Kosovo and Metohija. They can only expect a new exodus. The Serbian Radical Party had great support for Roma in previous elections and, if you remember, you may not know it, but the SRS also had posters in Roma language in the Bujanovac campaign. Not only that, we had a poster and after the Roma elections, I might say it wrong, but it said, "Awn of six checks, where we thanked the many citizens of Roma nationality who voted for the SRS." I am sure that because of this relationship in the next elections, an even greater number of Roma nationalities will vote for us. It would be good to separate themselves from these current coalition partners, because the Roma also have their own representative in the larger with, of course, the Democratic Party, which has been Mr. Riza Halimi's coalition partner for many years, and has warmly approved all these declarations that bring up the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities' congregations. So the problem is not whether it's a Roma or a Serb, the problem is if it's a non-Albanian and the problem is if the village is non-Albanian. Next thing you know, Mr. Riza Halimi, a bomb was dropped a while ago in the house and in the yard, or at the door of Nagip Arifi, the yard to the yard. A normal reaction would be, I guess, in every country in the world, that whoever was dropped a bomb in the yard would call the police. That's not what happened in this case. Let Mr. Riza Halimi explain why they waited 24 hours to pass, to get Nagip Arifi back out of the way, that in the meantime Albanian council members of the Albanian parties from SO Bujanovac are bringing a declaration requesting the withdrawal of Serbian security forces from the Bujanovac municipality due to some threat, and you are silent when it is discovered after a week that the one who dropped the bomb is Albanian, that he is from the village of Konculj and probably a member of that group who, about a month ago, was using automatic rifles and rocket launchers to deal with members of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Which is why Mr. Riza Halimi so much attacks the construction of the company, I guess it's called "Interspid", the construction of gas stations. Why? Because right now, when it comes to gas stations, it is owned by Nedzad Beljulji, who owns both Elhan and private television in Bujanovac, a gentleman who tried to buy some other factories in the Pcinj County, a gentleman who was deputy to Ridvan Qazimi, whom Riza Halimi calls "Captain Lashi". We have here previously determined that he was not killed, as Mr. Riza Halimi wrongly claimed, but that he was liquidated by members... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia is in charge of them because he was a member of a terrorist organisation. Mr. Riza Halimi celebrates this man and he refused last time to plead with him. Here, let's see what he thinks of Nedzad Beljuli, who is his deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7694	The People's MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word Srdjan Sajn, according to the Rules of Procedure. Tom's just now. Is it worth... I'm sorry, please, Natasha, he can't do Tomislav because he's the president of your party. Here in order, the man said nicely, don't make a problem for him. You kept the list. I think we should still be correct. Here you go, Srdjan Shin, then Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7695	I'd just like to make a few points, 'cause apparently my colleagues didn't get me very well. This is related to Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I claim that there is a Salvadore settlement and that there are refugees in it, but I also claim that Serbia must lead a responsible policy towards all refugees and that this policy can only be implemented in conjunction with local authorities, state-level authorities and in co-operation with international community representatives who have to help this Serbia, because Serbia is not economically strong enough to resolve the refugee issue. I don't know why anyone wants to tell the difference between refugees and saying -- these refugees are a little darker colors, these are a little brighter colors, these are blond hair, these are black hair, so these are black roads and they have black hair we won't even create the possibility of going back to Kosovo, and we won't accept them here among the locals, because they don't matter to us for some reason. I only advocate this policy from this pay phone – it is important for us to address the issue of the evasive population. It's not the refugees' fault that they were brought into such a situation. It is not the refugees' fault that several hundred thousand of them had to leave Kosovo, and between that and about 100,000 Roma. I could only tell my colleagues to Germany - Nemanja, Nemanja, Nemanja, Nemanja, so of 7,000 there are 6,000, 5,000, 4,000, and 3,000 Roma in Bujanovac. Believe me, research has been done, but research has been done in line with the freedom of declaration of nationality. All research in Serbia shows that the relationship... (President: Please listen to the speaker a little more carefully. So it's about the next one. Research has been done and in all these studies it has been shown that according to the official list in all environments there are many more Roma than the Roma plead, for well-known reasons -- because history towards them has been ruthless, because there is a certain fear. This is what gives me the right to claim that there are more than 3,500 inhabitants in Bujanovac, which is about the number you spoke of, which have officially declared themselves Roma. I agree with you that the Roma vote for different political parties and that's good. You have managed to speak one sentence in Roma, I speak Serbian in this assembly, although I can, according to the Constitution and by all things, speak in Roma, but it is the best way to show that we are really citizens who respect the customs of this country, the customs of the majority people and the customs of the local population, the people we live with together. Thank you very much. Maybe I got your line wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7696	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been transferred here to the Serbian Radical Party to threaten the dignity of the National Assembly. National Assembly dignity was marred when Vojislav Kostunica allowed the company G17 plus to be in the government again and continue to rob Serbia. If you need to sue someone, here, I tell you he is one of the biggest living criminals in Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic. If you need to sue someone, here I tell you that Ivana Dulic-Markovic supports the constitution and that he is his representative in Serbia. I'm interested in one other thing here. With you, I think I'll calculate myself when there's real, normal authorities in Serbia and when the courts do their job. Now no one can hit you, and the evidence is piling up behind you, evidence of an unprecedented robbery of Serbia involving a company called G17 Plus. I'm interested, Mr. Canak, in what right did you teach Fascism yesterday at the First Kragujean High School? Who invited you there and with what moral dignity are you able to teach Fascism in Kragujevac? When we explained to you here the other day everything about fascism in Serbia has to be said, why do you continue to arlaucate in Serbia, to haranguate and poison our children with ideas that have never had a foothold in Serbia? Is there any money there, Mr. Canak, that can make you do so much dishonest work? Why don't you stop it, and why doesn't this "yellow" director from Kragujeva high school think a little bit about you having a very bad, devastating influence on our children? Even if you were talking about flowers, you would have a devastating impact on our children, Mr. Canak. You are a man who cannot hide his evil, his hatred for everything alive. You're a man who can't be a role model for anything. Your whole life, your friends, your godmothers, your association with drug dealers, can't be a role model for Serbian children. Where is this minister of education, where's the idea of someone at school that MPs, political party representatives, and you're also an American capital agent who makes you accuse us of fascism, where's the idea of allowing you minors to lecture on fascism, about anything, Mr. Canak, and especially Fascism? Why don't you give them a lecture on patriotism, patriotism, love for your country? Where did you graduate from those schools that recognized fascism in Serbia? Mr. Canak, you are a great evil for Serbia. But I don't blame our children who have to listen to you, because they're going to have an unwarranted absence. I resent those who allow you to go to Serbian schools and propagate ideas that make Serbia come to a pillar of shame in Europe. Did she record any Western TVs for you? Did you send a report on how, well, you're the man who's gonna tell us about Fascism? How much does every class of yours cost? Maybe we'd work and raise money to pay you, just so you don't do anything anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7698	I thank Tomislav Nikolic. Mr. Riza Halimi, then Mr. Sarovic, then Mr. Damjanovic, then Mr. Nenad Canak. I haven't restricted time to three minutes yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7699	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. All day they protested and demonstrated here in the rain the workers of Belgrade's Robing Houses. Their protest is in direct correlation with one of the topics that are on the agenda today, which are the proposals for a law on ratification of two conventions on corruption. What's going on or is going to happen to Belgrade Robing Houses also smells of corruption. Why is that happening? Because the capital of Belgrade's shopping houses, according to estimates of experts, but not fakes, from one parliamentary group, but true experts, is worth about a billion euros. Perhaps more than a billion euros, in terms of land, cargo, warehouses and the sale facilities of the "Belgrade" stores, which are in many cities, even in most cities, at a strict centre and have enormous value. Because it should belong again and to the small door owner... These chiefs of Parliament clubs...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7700	I'd like the heads of Parliament's clubs to leave the discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7701	To be polite, Mr. Aligruditch, and not to talk as the speakers speak. It doesn't matter what it is that I happen to be me, when anyone's talking, you do well to listen to it, not chat. You're supposed to be seeing people from the Belgrade Robing Houses, it's not the opposition's job, it's the government's business, and you know it, but well, that's what it says about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7702	Please don't throw it out of the MPs' benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7703	This rude creature...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7704	Please don't make a circus out of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7705	He told me twice - shame on you. Mr. Aligrudic, I can't deal with you, you have some other institutions in charge who could give their judgment and your judgment of your conduct and of your manners. So, it's not a topic, and it's not a subject, it's a subject that's dissuaded and unhappy people that this government turns into second-class citizens, and it's making them fuck from disgrace to unloved and knock on every door, with all MPs and MPs, with the President of the Republic, in the office of the President of the Court, because someone wants to sell the Robing House at a small door. That's the point. I don't know if you've received them and who has received them, I know it's not right and it's not fair that such a company, which could be a national brand, could be the subject of some kind of trade, of what we've witnessed on many occasions lately, and that it goes to a small door in vain. I hope you're fighting it, too. Another question I wanted to ask – from which funds are large fees paid to some of the "Politicals" columnists? For all I know, Politics is part of the property of the state of Serbia, or some public enterprises, and that's the state of Serbia again. From what means and resources of taxpayers are some of the columnists financed? People who have been employed in Politics for years claim to be astronomical fees. To make things worse, some of these columnists, honor the exceptions, are court columnists. If I were to be incorrect, I'd say the court's crazy or court fools, who slander and insult all the opponents of the current government, or its prime minister, and receive huge fees for it. Just read the text in today's politics. The third question -- why was the auction sale of NIN delayed, when everyone was employed, with the exception of a few, which is the protagonists of the story of the third bullet, of the ice bullet, of the second street and the second assassin, of the photo robot... Why the auction sale of NIN was cancelled, when people who wanted to buy NIN came forward, which was accepted by most of the NIN employees, except for those who were promoters of stories about some kryptonationalism and stories of false legalism. So I'm looking for an answer to those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7706	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is from Mr. Riza Halimi, then the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarović, then the People's Messenger Damjanović Jovanovic, the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, and then the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last time I broke the lines or talked to Ambassador Sarovic, because there was really inaccuracy, insinuation, and it was beneath all the honor to continue this debate. He went too far today, so I had to react. It's not true that Mr. Beljuli owns some gas station. I know him, then the man suffered unjustly for your misinformation; in some of the places where he decides, and he legally bought the company, it's analized, probably because of this kind of incorrect information. The man doesn't own a gas station. He's not the owner of that pump, he owns an Albanian again. As far as my reaction to "Interspid" is concerned, I have provided data very accurate and precise, because it is a monopoly that the state provides not only to the company "Interspid", but also to a number of other firms that come from Belgrade and other environments. Domestic companies don't get a chance to get a job, and the job they have is lost, and people simply don't have a chance to get a job in state authorities. I ask the question, there is the President of the Co-ordination Body, when it would take into account the presentation of MP Sarovic should not have the Co-ordination Body at all exist and work on the integration of Albanians, because it turns out that it should integrate 90% of Serbs into state bodies, so it should be 100%. In all state authorities in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji Albanians, there is currently not even 10%. That's why the government has made its own plan in time to finally integrate Albanians. However, such insinuations are back in order; that this Mr. Beljuli was Deputy Ridvan Qazimi, that's insinuation again. I repeat, and last time I said precisely, Ridvan Qazimi was the president of a delegation that, after negotiations with representatives of the federal and republican governments and the international community, signed a declaration of demilitarisation, followed by a relaxation of the land security zone. Then he was killed on fraud, just at the time that relaxation was carried out and the agreement was to be implemented. I've heard from Mr. Sarovic for the first time, then I was interested in state authorities and no one has ever come out with a statement that Ridvan Qazimi was liquidated. I ask the authorities to make that clear, that such a statement, incorrect, is given for this speaker. That's why the authorities should say their word. (President: Thank you, Mr. Riza Halimi.) Please report back to Mr. Sarovic and return three minutes. Just let me... (President: Then Sarovic has 10 minutes. I'm here accused of disrespecting state authorities. I refer to state authorities' data, Albanians in Presevo have 54.69% or 23.681, Serbs 14.782 or 34.4%, Roma 3.867 or 8.9% and 2% remain. This is official data from state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7708	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and I ask Mr. Sarovic to stick to it for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Riza Halimi, you have shown not only by now that you have not respected the state of Serbia, but you have shown before and that you do not respect the parliament of the Serbian state, you have said that it is beneath you to debate with me. Of course to me, Mr. Riza Halimi, it is not under the honor of discussing with you, I appreciate the citizens of the Republic of Serbia's choice. I'm not looking at what nationalities are. You're saying I made some mistakes, which is not true. You said again that Ridvan Qazimi was the head of the delegation and you're asking for state authorities to react. But the state authorities have already responded. For him, the last word was said, as regards the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, when it was liquidated in an anti-terrorist action. The fact that you are defending terrorists, Mr. Riza Halimi, is your position, and because of that attitude, you would have to react to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The other thing is, you haven't made it clear whether Mr. Nejad Beljuli was a financier so-called. The Preshev Liberation Army, the Bujanovac and the Bear. He's, like I said, the owner of local television. He bought in Vlad's Han a brick company called Brikroud. I wish I was the one who stopped that sale. Unfortunately, I did not, but it was done by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, not because of it, Mr Halimi, which is Nedzad Beljulji Albanian. Since I see you're well-advised, because you're obviously a great friend of Mr. Beljuli's and you're obviously well-advised to what it is in his property, which it isn't, then tell us how he acquired so much property. Where did he get so much money that he buys companies in Serbia, Mr. Halimi? How can you say it's such an undeveloped area? Some say that only these drug routes and drug trafficking raise certain funds. You yourself have repeatedly said that no factory in Bujanovac works. So how does Mr. Beljuli get rich enough to buy factories all over Serbia? Mr. Halimi, you explain for the citizens of Albanian nationality, and I ask you a question. You requested the withdrawal of the army and the police from Presevo. Colonel Simovic, Colonel of Serbia's Army, has arranged for military vehicles, military sanity doctors to tour, to provide medical assistance and examinations, the most distant Albanian villages, for free of charge. Instead of going out for this pay phone and saying that Serbia is a democratic country, which takes care of all its citizens, and even in Presevo and Bujanovac and more than in some other municipalities in Serbia that are also poor, you are coming out looking for an army to withdraw from that territory. You're asking for it at the expense of your countrymen not having adequate medical attention tomorrow. That, Mr. Halimi, is what he's talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7710	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. We wrote it down, Rizzo, just to move on now. The People's Messenger, Jovan Damjanović, and Nenad Canak, the Messenger of the people, Milos Aligrudić, the Messenger of the people, Peter Jojic, and the messenger of the people, Riza Halimi, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7711	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the presentations of individuals and Mr. Halimi made me go out and say a few words. Mr. Halimi, while the military, police and Serb people were in Kosovo, the Roma did not experience an exodus. When after the military-technical agreement in Kuman's army, police and the Serb people withdrew a large exodus and the most difficult cleanup towards the Roma by Albanian separatists. You are now in power in Presevo and Bujanovac; what have you done for displaced persons in the Salvatore settlement and what have you done for the Roma in Kosovo Mitrovica, where is also the ruling coalition of Albanians? In Kosovo, Mitrovica, you brought down all the houses of the Roma who had large houses and were situated, so you moved the Roma to the dump, where the lead dust, all the Roma there were ghettoized; a large number of children got sick and died of that lead that was carcinogenic. Many Roma families have become ill. That's proof of how much you take care of the Roma. Secondly, when it comes to Roma in Bujanovac and Presevo, I have information about how the coalition that is in power in Presevo behaves, while in Bujanovac you have done nothing for displaced and exiled persons by Albanian separatists. In return, what does Serbia do for the Albanian national minority in Bujanovac? That's what we all need to know. The municipality finances the work of the next libraries, whose funds contain books in Albanian language and in which members of the Albanian national community work. That's true. It is the library "14th November", the municipality library "Petar Petrovic", the City Library Presevo etc. In addition to funding the work of public libraries from the municipality's budget, whose founder is the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia, the Regional Secretariat for Education is co-financed by the purchase of books in the language of minorities for libraries in multilingual communities. I have to say this, Mr. Halimi Rizzo. When it comes to culture, the Albanian-language performances are performed by the amateur theatre that works within the Cultural and Artistic Society "Abdulah Krasniqi" from Presevo, where the theatre festival "The Days of Albanian Comedy" is held in Albanian. Also, amateur theatre creation in Albanian is supported and promoted through funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, from municipal budgets, for theatres whose founder is municipalities. I'm asking if you have this kind of funding for the Roma where you're in power. You don't. We all know how Roma live. They're the most endangered people there, and you're propagating some democracy. As far as Albanians are concerned, Serbia allows everything, and as for you Albanians who are in the municipalities of power, you give nothing to the Roma. Now, that's your democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few words to say. I'd be very happy and happy if that's how Mr. Srdjan Shane defends the Roma people here, indeed. Mr. Shine has made the biggest scam here in this House, I'll tell you how. This isn't a circus, Mr. Shane. If you were out in the circus, this is the National Assembly, and you said this was a circus, there are MPs here, and we do what is the interest of the people and the state. (President: Thank you, sir.) Here, I'm done. You asked for an extraordinary assembly of the National Council of Roma. Now I ask you, who submitted the request and the electricians to the National Assembly. It was only you who submitted it, while Mr Ljajic was the minister of national minorities and human rights, and we who have far more than you were able to hand it over. You have 18,400, and I have 45,000 electricians, but they wouldn't let us in. Now you're making an appointment for the Assembly. Where's our time to hand over our electric ballots, do you know how long it takes to process the electric ballots? So you're going out, your electricians at that National Council of Roma assembly. That's terrible. You can't do that. (President: Thank you, Mr Damjanovic.) That's not what you should have done. You were supposed to be looking for a vacuum, so we could all hand it over. I've been contacted by over 50 cities of Roma who accuse you of grand fraud and deception. Secondly, at least you have the right to seek... Mr. Shane, just laugh, at least you have the right to look at the National Council... You know you were a representative... (President: Thank you, Mr Damjanovic.) Please, you have to pick up again. Here, it's six minutes. Well, if you say so, Mr. Chairman, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7712	Excuse me, please. Thank you very much. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak then Milos Aligrudić, then Petar Jojic, then Riza Halimi, Srdjan Sajn, then Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Nikolic, you asked me what I would do in Kragujevac yesterday. I was in Kragujevac at the call of the First Kragujevac High School's student parliament. The student parliament has been an institution that has existed and has been functioning for a long time. They were visiting the AP Vojvodina Assembly, this was a return visit to their call. They asked me to give a lecture in a class called the Constitution and the right of citizens and I spoke only and exclusively about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, I don't understand why you're uninformed about Kragujevac, the town where you're in. Since you're there, it would be convenient to know what's going on in Kragujevac. It would be convenient to know that before me were Mr. Tadic, and Mr. Micunović, and Mr. Dinkic, and Mr. Jelasic, and Ceda Jovanovic and many other people who were called by the same student parliament. You have to ask the students of Kragueva High School why they didn't call you. You have to ask them, because they're the ones who invited me, no director and no professors. So, it's more than just an unintelligence, Mr. Nikolic. You say I'm evil for children. For more than 2,000 years, the charges of people who, behold, spoil the youth, do not respect the gods, and should end up drinking the hip juice on their own. Mr. Nikolic, how am I to spoil those children when you're all fixing them; how am I to be the one to be so dangerous to the health of our youth, so look how many of you who know exactly what's good for that youth. Your good for this youth is to remain isolated from the rest of the world. It is good for you to remain entangled in your coordinates that do not move beyond the most embarrassing pages of the history of Serbia and the Serbian people. What right do you have to call me this way at all when you don't have an elementary awareness of what's going on around you or even in your town? Don't say that, Mr. Nikolic. You'll be ashamed of your grandchildren. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7714	Dear People's MPs, as you well know, this morning we started a working day on these points of the agenda with nine speakers, the MPs, who were left to finish the act; now we have two speakers to finish the agenda. I don't think it's appropriate that we report to the Rules of Procedure for more than two hours without allowing the agenda to end. This applies to all speakers who appear in the Rules of Procedure. I'm really asking you to let this agenda end tonight. Mr. Aligrudic, you have a word with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7715	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I appreciate your argument and I'd like it to go from this moment on. I'll see that my answer, which I've been forced to, is as short as possible. I would only ask, it is no longer the same as the chairman, but in any case, if the MPs do happen to interfere with the other MP in the presentation, it is quite enough reason to chair the warnings of the MPs, in order to enable him who speaks to speak. I think it's the only way to communicate here, because you know the position of the chairman, who must, among other things, do what you just did and I don't blame you for it, it's quite right. The problem, however, is that we cannot communicate in the relationship between the MP sitting in the bench and the MP who speaks for the speaker. In that sense, I apologize to both the National Assembly and Vladan Batic because, truth be told, I threw it to the MP during his speech. I hope this doesn't happen often on my side, that, if possible, it won't happen again. But I have to warn you of one thing, I did it because I was provoked by something else. In fact, there's no one who can speak to force the MPs to pay attention, there's no such thing as anywhere in the world. If someone thinks it's interesting to themselves, they don't have to live in illusion or burden us with their own illusion that it's interesting to everyone, it just doesn't work. We can't talk that way. Therefore, if the head of the parliamentary club of one political party, at the moment of the speaker's speech, spoke to another, the only way to address the problem is to warn the chairman of those who speak in the hall not to interfere with the speaker, if he assesses from his place, and he can very well assess it, whether the noise heard from the bench is such a nature to interfere with speakers. Indeed, make all those present in the hall with due attention listen to the people's messenger who speaks, for you have no example in the world. And finally, if there's one lack of attention to what's said, maybe that's what it says about the very content of the exposure of the one who's talking. We can't all be smart and interesting, of course, I'm not denying the possibility of you assessing that what I'm saying isn't very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7716	National MP Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure. No, thank you. National MP Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this topic interesting now. A single Albanian called to buy a company, not in Bujanovac, where there's no way, because there's no one who's managed to buy a company... Because when Simpo was sold, you had the opportunity to find out in the means of information that it was sold on an agreed basis, no auction or any other way of selling it, because, he says, there would be a danger for Albanians to buy a store house in the centre of Bujanovac. I read this in our paper, gentlemen. The only Albanian entered the process, got the procedure, started charging, came out one of the radicals and prevented it. What is it now that MP Sarovic adds? So the Albanian has to be a smuggler, he has to do drugs, because he says - how does an Albanian get money? They also deal with drugs, they deal with both Serbs and Albanians, it's international, so let's leave the stories behind. Anyway, how does that logic make sense that if one, any, a businessman, an Albanian, gets into that field to deal with this activity, that he has to deal with drugs automatically? I think this logic has led this country to all the tragedies we've experienced here. It's time to get rid of it. As for what Roma representatives have brought out here, Zulficar Bajramovic's association receives 10% of the funds for culture in the Bujanovac municipality's budget, 40% of the Kolo -- the Serb association and 50% of the Jehon -- the Albanian association. It's the budget distribution of the Bujanovac municipality. With about eight million dinars, the municipal company covers all the costs for refugees that have failed so far by UNHCR, and not only them, but the refugee-related association. When I mentioned refugees, I mentioned all refugees: Albanians, Serbs and Roma alike. So, the refugee has all the ethnic colors, and as far as that goes, it absolutely takes a common approach. A few weeks ago, the question was whether there was an investment in villages with Serb population. Klinovac, school - 11.5 million, Trejak, water supply - 7.5 million, Spančevac, water supply - 3 million, 5 million and so on. I think this is where the flat, unconfirmed grades are made. I am automatically asked why someone is questioning my knowledge of Bujanovac, which is 25km away, and it is reportedly necessary for someone from Belgrade, 400km away, to know better. Come on, explain that fact to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7718	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7719	I don't have one thing left, Mr. Halimi. You're saying that I said something negative about this Mr. Nedzad Beljuli, and yet you claim Ridhan Qazimi that he is not a terrorist, that he is qualified officially by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, but you say -- the leader of the delegation. Excuse me, is it something ugly to be deputy head of delegation? I don't think so. Mr. Riza Halimi, what's the problem here, you know what's true, so when I say he's a terrorist, you know he is, but you still claim he's the head of some delegation. When Ciglan was sold in Vladica's Han, and you must know that in Vladica's Han there is much less employment than in Presevo, it has caused great unrest for the citizens, Mr Halimi, not because Nejad Beljuli is an Albanian, but because of the way he came to that money. Another thing, you say, one Albanian showed up. It's not one Albanian. You yourself claimed, Mr. Riza Halimi, that in Presevo and Bujanovac, nothing works. Statistically, Preshevo is the city with the most millionaires per capita. How is that possible, Mr. Halimi? Is that Las Vegas or is that Presevo? So, you have to find a middle, because you're saying that nothing works, you have millions of hours and you're complaining that you can't buy factories all over Serbia. Secondly, it's not true, Mr. Riza Halimi, or that information you gave about the number of Serbs. You know that the number of Serbs in Bujanovac from year to year is getting smaller, such as, unfortunately, Mr. Shane, the smaller and the number of Roma from year to year. It has nothing to do with us. It has nothing to do with Serbia. The Roma have always been loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Please, I'd like you, Mr. Halimi, to give at least one opposite example and say, one village was a mixed, Serbian-Albanian village, and now it's only Albanian. You know how many villages are slowly buying Serbian property, one by one, and there are fewer Serbs in Bujanovac, I don't think there are more than 10,000. Mr. Halimi, that's funny and nice to you. When you go out for this pay phone then you tell one story, and when you go back to the bench, then you show one different face. Obviously, you have two or more faces. In the end, I'd say something about Mr. Shane. It is true that the Roma are suffering and that they suffered great pressures during the Bujanovac elections and I know what teams, black threes, were going through this settlement and waiting for Roma national voters in the polling stations themselves. Mr. Shane, be so honest, come out and tell me who did it. Were they Serbian radicals? No, they're not. For us, members of Roma nationality voted voluntarily, but one's other members, those who won, they were the ones who were making huge pressures, threats to everyone and everything, and beatings and worse things. If you know all that, and I'm sure you know, because it's no secret for anyone who's been to Bujanovac, then come out and tell me. Go out and say whose policy it is and who it is that treats the citizens of Roma nationality, because they treat Serbs the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7720	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7721	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS rightly point to a major state problem, in the way the bankruptcy and sale of the properties of the "Belgrade" store takes place, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the following questions and ask the answers: 1. How much is the area of business space and building land? 2. What is the value of these properties, both in relation to the business space and in relation to the building land, should therefore be separated and their locations? 3. When has that value been established? 4. How many years does the bankruptcy process take, that is, when the bankruptcy is open and is the bankruptcy over? 5. Who was the bankruptcy judge and who were the judges in the bankruptcy council, and who was this Zumbul, the bankruptcy director? For him, the public of Serbia is very interested. Let's see these "zumbules", which are these "zumbuls", six of them who have been redecorating and changing and taking money in a bankruptcy procedure in the name of the workers of the Robe houses and the property of the Republic of Serbia. Give these judges, let's get these bankruptcy managers to see them and find out who these people were and how they were doing and how much they took in relation to their skills and their participation in the bankruptcy process. Six. What are the debts of the Robing Houses, when they are determined and who has established them, because it does not matter whether those debts were fixed six years ago or are established today. According to the Law on Liabilities - given the changed circumstances, the real price must be determined on the date on which a certain decision is executed. Seven. Who was an expert, one or more court-laws, and whether the art was performed by a physical person or performed by an institution authorized to perform an art, so that we can compare their findings. 8. If bankruptcy judges have changed, we ask names and last names, that the public and workers of the Robing Houses find out who the bankruptcy judges were in the bankruptcy council, especially who was president of the bankruptcy council. According to our findings, the value of the Robing Houses exceeds a billion euros, and that is a huge fortune. Take a square meter in Knez Mikhail Street worth two and a half thousand euros, so 500 thousand square meters, and if you count two thousand euros, that's a billion. What do we say, where's the building land? This is where the state and the government have to mix up and someone has to roll up their sleeves, do a review and determine what the real price is on today. It is especially necessary to determine when the bankruptcy started. Why does bankruptcy last six or ten years? Do you know why? Because individuals who fail to participate take money and no one controls it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7722	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Mr. Shain, I really ask that we be brief and that we allow the agenda to end and that we do not challenge other MPs to replicas. Please do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7723	I wouldn't say anything if a man didn't say I was lying. Dear Mr. Damjanovic, I've told you a hundred times that they want to fight us, that they want to fight us. However, it takes two to argue. Anyway, I don't want to fight, but I'm going to ask you something. The Serbian Radical Party has very good lawyers, has a very good legal service, and you persistently use the lawyers of the Roma Association of Serbia, and do not use the lawyers of the Serbian Radical Party. If you had consulted the SRS lawyers, they would have told you this, and this is what those who want to fight you, but to help each other: there is a law that defines the existence of national councils. There are rules that define the choice of national councils. In the election rule, which, under the circumstances, was signed by Mr. Rasim Ljajic while he was a state-level minister, said the snap elections are being discussed within 30 to 90 days. For these elections you have time from today, not from the day of the call, another 40 and a few days, Mr Damjanovic. Therefore, you have time for 40 days and a few days to submit your electoral applications. I cared not only about you when I suggested it, I cared about everyone else who needed time to collect signatures, because they needed it more than we needed. Of course, we're more organized, we have better contact with people in the mahales, we've made it faster to collect signatures, but we wanted to create conditions and those who can't do it so quickly. Secondly, I would ask you to make it clear in this assembly that I was never a member of the Roma National Minority Council. The last sentence that got away from me. This is why a trial is being conducted and Mr. Vitomir Mihajlovic is due to be heard in court in Novi Sad for slander. I was president of the Executive Board because they asked me and I had the support of 18 members of the National Council to do it, but after three months, when the first budget came and when they were causing problems, I resigned. I said I was preparing new electoral elections, we're going to the elections to join the republican parliament, we've prepared new elections, and with 18,000 signatures, we've proven that we have the support of the Roma national community. (President: Thank you, Mr. Shane. ) In the elections, you are there, but people voted for the politics of the Serbian Radical Party, not the Roma Association of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7724	I thank Parliamentarian Milan Nikolic for giving up the discussion. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7725	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, no one, Mr. Shane, can argue with us, but we must look into the truth and work in the interest of the Roma national community, not our own interests. Mr. Ljajic is here. I don't need lawyers. I know, when it was Ljajic, his commission or board, they gathered us together and gave us suggestions and gave us time to collect, because they couldn't process the electric leaves so quickly. Here, there's Mr. Ljajic. Avi's scheduled and we're due to hand over the ballots by the 17th of this month. First of all, you're not the only Roma in this country, but that's your problem, I won't interfere, Mr. Shane. You can't demagogue here; you can do it outside, but here you don't. Now, let me ask you, what about the chickens you got for the Roma national minority, so you gave certain families, so when they got the weight, you picked up and sold? What about the "Them" list you sell for five Swiss francs in Switzerland, what about that money? What about the Union of Roma Vojvodina Associations; you took projects, you set the office on fire and you can't justify it. What about the other shops you've been doing? You get the money, then they steal your computers. It's a circus outside, and you say you went from an outside circus to an internal circus. This is the National Assembly. And now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just read you something that's true. I'm not making this up, this is a document I received from the National Council of Roma Serbia, and it says, "Without the decision of the National Council of Roma Serbia's executive board, computers were purchased, totalling 728 thousand dinars. We do not know how many computers have been purchased, nor do we know who has been delivered to and given to use." The persons responsible for this are, Mr. Shine, Vitomir Mihajlovic, who is indeed a criminal and a thief, and Mr. Srdjan Shine. Let us, Mr. Srdjane Shine, let us tell you how you used the National Council and took the money, and it says this: "Employment of individual associations and certain personalities: Srdjan Shin - 25 May 2004 20 thousand; 4 June 20 thousand; 15 June 60 thousand; 17 June 30 thousand; 18 June 60 thousand; 23 June 60 thousand; 29 June 38 thousand; 19 July 135 thousand; 15 July 50 thousand; 29 July 28 thousand; 13 August 64 thousand; 16 August 57 thousand; 28 August 43 thousand and 1 September 40,000". (President: I really ask you to finish. Time's up. ) "On 7 September 2004, 40,000; September 15, 45,000; September 27, 60,000; October 7, 30,000; October 10, 12, and 29, 66,000", Srdjan Shayn, named "Them", was given 200,000. In total, Mr. Shane took 1,189,000 that he didn't justify. You're talking about honesty! That's your honesty in the National Council. At least you have the right to speak of the National Council and the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7726	Mr. Shane, I'm asking you again to finish the agenda, and we'll continue the debate tomorrow morning. People's MP Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure. Still, you won't let us finish the agenda we've been discussing for two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7727	The proposal is very short and very clear. I accept that I give up my parliamentary immunity, and you accept it, so that we may stand before the court for what they have done. Whether you took the money or not, you're going to be passing the bills to the SRS. The Roma told you very clearly several times, when there was a choice for the first National Council, when you failed to gather and be an electrician. So much for how much Roma appreciate and respect your work, how much they appreciate and respect my work. On the other hand, Mr. Damjanovic, I know that you've only learned one thing - to put fuel in the car, to go to the settlement, to tell them that you're going to do water, electricity, etc., and that there's nothing. As far as the National Council is concerned, for those three months and for those funds you're talking about, I'm telling you it's true that the Executive Board spent that money. It's nothing new. However, something else is true, at the time the first institution in which Roma are employed was formed, the first institution to fund ten students each year. There are Vojvodina MPs, for the first time it happened that in one assembly, a province or assembly of a state community or of Serbia, a Roma would be appointed president of a board of directors or directors of a public institution. Those are the results. But those who are used to criticizing together and not going out to say... We've brought a newspaper publishing facility. What did you bring? Give the results of what you've done with a group that wants to participate... Or I understand somehow differently, that you have spoken to Minister Ljajic and everyone about how the National Council is wrong, and now you may be defending that same National Council. Come on, define yourself once. I've got three minutes. (President: Mr. Shane, please, you do, but please lower your voice. ) Identify yourself once, or you are for policy change and show results, or you are for politics that we only need to criticize someone, and that will make us popular. It's been so long, Mr. Damjanovic. Roma in Serbia ask if anyone helped them make the way, if anyone helped them... As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Nikolic, the money, I'll tell you right away. The much larger Vojvodina had just helped Mr Damjanovic travel to Poland and return, when the radicals were anatemised, at a time when we from the Roma Party were in the Council for Integration in the Executive Council of Vojvodina. At that very time we helped him, regardless of party membership, so he could go to Poland and he knows it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7728	Time's up, Mr. Shane. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shane, I'm not asking for money, the Roma people in this Serbia are asking where is the money from the National Council. I know you're being prosecuted. I know there's a criminal case against Mihajlovic, and Juan Koka is where he is, and he's doing what he's doing, and we all know what he's doing, because I think it's gonna come to an end. As for me and the electoral assembly, I didn't come to the electoral assembly. My respect for Mr. Rasim Ljajic, but it is known to be said - you must do everything possible to keep Jovan Damjanovic out of the National Council. Please, my ballot and my biography are gone. They're gone, I wasn't on the list, and I was the strongest electrician, you know that. Now we'll see who's the strongest electrician and who the people will give it to. What we did, what I did and what the Serbian Radical Party was doing, that the Serbian people know well. Let me ask you, Mr. Shane, how long will you, just be so funny, how long will you lie to this congregation and this people? He can't take it anymore. She says it like this - hit by a car, because it's a Roma woman. They said - Grujica Šaponjic cried out - trampled by gypsies, trampled by gypsies. That was, Mr. Shane, in Panchev on August 3rd. Here's a picture of you and your newspaper, painting yourself defending the Roma people. Now I'll tell you, you know she's not a Roma woman. Do you know she's Romanian? Do you know that Šaponjic got the stress when you were saying... Because a man claims, and I talked to him, that he didn't say at all, nor did anyone say that gypsies are being trampled. It's terrible what you insinuations make and look for points on lies. It can't be like that. You want to show that there is a dictatorship towards the Roma in Serbia. There is no dictatorship, as far as I know, and I was born in Serbia. You came to Serbia in 2000. You've been out of this country. Do you know why you were? When DOS came, you came. I've known you since 2000. I've been in the Roma movement for 25 years. Let me ask you, as far as the Kovac case is concerned, what happened in Kovac? A Slovak hit your cousin, banged on the gate. You're calling General Kuribak. What's the general gonna do when he gets here? You want to demonstrate force... (President: Mr Damjanović, I really ask you... )......................................................................................................... You're as strong as the MP, please, it's an abuse of parliamentary immunity and status. I am now asking a parliamentary question and asking for an answer for two cases where MP Shane stepped out in public, misleading the public, misusing the status of the MP: 10. 6. in Kovavica and 3. 8th in Panchev. I ask to be delivered to me officially, as a People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7730	The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then a National MP named Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see many are in a hurry, but it seems to me that you and October 5th were in a hurry when you swore before the Serbian citizens for honesty and transparency. It seems to me that this has been spent very quickly in these seven years of your rule, which shows this book written by the Democratic Party's father in 2001, and then described in this preface the state of corruption in Serbia. It's Dragoljub Micunovic. Therefore, he tried to justify, as your parent, all the evil you have done to Serbia for the past seven years. Ladies and gentlemen, $6.5 billion was supposed to be donated in 2000 when you came to power, and you received only five million from that money, and that was when you handed over to The Hague Slobodan Milosevic, when individuals such as Cedomir Jovanovic, Bane Ivkovic, bled their hands. Ladies and gentlemen, from all that has been happening in Serbia and what previous speakers have made for this speaker, and these are a lot of mafia acts, not to mention them, in the electricity industry, in traffic, in the tobacco mafia, in the bankruptcy mafia, in the construction mafia, in the agricultural mafia, in the health mafia, as you can see, in no case has your authority functioned without crime and the mafia. You tried that, probably, in your mutual accounts, which is in the "Sabbe" action when you wanted to deal with individuals, because many have already acquired that dirty capital, that is, with that dirty money, there has been a purchase of many businesses today in Serbia. I see that the man responsible for this criminal business in Serbia, Vlahovic, no one mentions or is very little mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, many speakers have said that the great giants are privatized in Serbia, but I have to tell you what happened in the Sabbath community. Otherwise, as a representative of the government, Mr Dusan Petrovic should sit here, listen to us, and answer our questions in this area of crime, and he is not here. He's not on purpose, because he boasts that privatisation was done in the Sabacan municipality, with the largest number of companies sold, I have to say, with the largest number of criminally sold companies. Only three or four companies are somehow privatized legally, and this is all illegal. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what's been adoring you for the past seven years. These days, pedestals from Lithuania, infected with TB, have been imported. Understand, they are in quarantine today, I think somewhere in Kragujevac, which again shows that criminal act towards agriculture, that is to say, the peasant. What is also very interesting to mention is the first privatisation and first theft in the Sabagic municipality, which is the abduction of the Mepritlastics company, which was kidnapped by the current owner of Galeb. It's Radosav Vesenovic, a man who spent a lot of time in Central Prison because of the big thieving and crime he committed in certain companies; he served there and later appeared as a political dissident. Ladies and gentlemen, this man was a member of the JUL, later a member of the Democratic Party, and now he is a member of the Democratic Party, and because of his conduct, this criminal operation, he became president of the Chamber of Commerce. That's what's important to mention. Also, Mr. Vlahovic brought out, when he arrived in Sabac, when he was a minister, to many objections from the workers of the catering company "Sava", on television, where the privatisation of the company was misused... Until today, the privatisation has not been restored, nor has another auction been performed, the sale of the company. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what adorns you all this time - the destruction of industry, the destruction of the economy. The Sabbath is a city with 25,000 unemployed. I don't know how this lady who spoke today talked about pensions... Here in my pocket is a pension of 7,500, so not a hundred euros, but imagine how much tax that person needs... No, this is Tadic Milene's pension from Capco. So you can see what a lie has been told today for this congregation speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I'd like to say, on October 5th, when Dusan Petrovic left Zapco, he, ladies and gentlemen... You see this card that reads -- the Democratic opposition to Serbia, head of security Milan Destanovic. Later, in the action "Sabla", the man was arrested because he knew a lot about Dusan Petrovic; probably Dusan Petrovic did not do everything he promised Mr. Milan. That's what the minister of injustice, Dusan Petrovic, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-10-0.u7732	The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. You don't want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Still, from the speaker, Jorganka Tabakovic for tomorrow. So there are 12 minutes left for the Serbian Radical Party, and we continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
