ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u93	Madam Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in Article 90, which establishes the agenda of the session. On 14 February, after the consultation of representatives of the parliamentary clubs and then by decision of all MPs, we established the agenda of the current session. The first item of the agenda is to confirm the mandate of the MPs and this point has been completed by verification of the mandate. However, the second item of the agenda, which referred to the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo and the Metohija Special Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari and the continuation of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, is not over. Therefore, we cannot move on to the debate on the third item of the agenda, because, as Parliament, the Resolution, we have committed ourselves to the debate on the outcome of the Vienna negotiations, in an unequivocal and clear way. The National Assembly particularly obliges the Negotiating Team to continue negotiating the position of the Republic of Serbia on the whole of the United Nations Special Envoy proposal, formulating, in accordance with the Resolution, its concrete proposals and solutions, and to submit a report to the National Assembly immediately upon its return to the negotiations, which decides on a further course of negotiations. We have not received the report, and the 2nd item of the agenda cannot be completed without debate on the State Negotiation Team's report. The move to the 3rd item of the agenda – the election of the President of Parliament, and then the other points of the agenda, implies a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which sets out very precisely the possibility of withdrawing certain items of the agenda or amending the agenda. That possibility no longer exists, since something like this is allowed at the beginning of the session. So we could have done that on February 14th before we voted on the agenda. It is unacceptable for us as a parliamentary group to move so harshly from a very important issue, on which parliament should plead, secondly, no less important, but to a question directly conditioned by the negotiation team's report. This should also be made clear by representatives of other parliamentary groups, given that we have heard from the consultations that Kosovo and the negotiation process in which our country is, among other things, the reason for the way this session is organised and the parliamentary majority that is being set up at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u94	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The agenda is voted and we move to the 3rd item of the agenda. We had a meeting of parliamentary groups and the agenda was established. We can't change it. Therefore, we move to the 3rd item of the agenda, which reads – Selecting the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Batic is looking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u95	Mrs. Vucic, you, as chairman, do not have to know the Rules of Procedure to the extent that this session involves, but we insist on that Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure cannot be broken. The second item of the agenda is not completed and Parliament should be declared. If we don't need a report from the Negotiating Team right now, when are we going to discuss this report? If we change the agenda, then someone should suggest that we change the agenda. We insist on the completion of the 2nd agenda, therefore, at the debate on the negotiating team's report. If parliamentary groups do not feel that such a thing should be done, they should propose a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but we insist on the continuation of the session, in the place where the session is interrupted. The second point is not finished, and to such a thing we have committed to the resolution and votes of the Assembly. If the resolution doesn't bind us in that part, does it bind us in any other part?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u96	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on what Cedomir Jovanovic was talking about, it was not only the Rules of Procedure but also the Constitution that began the Constitution, the preamble to which you all swore when you adopted this forged constitution, then the provision in Article 97(1) and Article 99(7). And one more thing, Madam Chairman, I would not speak of the very act of your presidency of this House, which is a kind of insult to democratically-oriented citizens in Serbia, but by Article 100. Your Rules of Procedure are required to provide an explanation for the matter you have asked. We expect your explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u98	Thank you. Hansel Dacic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not going to talk about what Cedomir Jovanovic and Mr Batic were talking about, because, as you know, Borka Vukic is just chairing this session. We too asked to discuss the report on Kosovo and Metohija, but the Democratic Party cited it as a reason not to elect a president, namely, to discuss the report. Borka Vukic has no authority to schedule a new session, and let's not turn out here to be a bigger patriot than it could be based on the vote. This was well seen by who voted in favour of the text of the resolution that we adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it doesn't matter at all. Please take care of whose choice of insults, and for whom, for which citizens. The people of the Republic of Serbia voted for each of us. You are not insulting here or Borko Vukic, or anyone personally, you are insulting those citizens who voted in favour of the Socialist Party of Serbia. You may not like it, but just because you don't like it, people voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u100	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u101	Mrs. Vukic, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, well, at our consultations, we said we would not allow the election of the President of Parliament to come with our consent, nor our resistance. This is a legitimate form of parliamentary struggle. We didn't ask for a new session. We do not believe that until now the chairman has violated his powers, but we believe that at this point it is necessary to continue the suspended agenda and to focus the debate on the report of the Negotiating Team, because we are bound by the Resolution. We have voted against this resolution and we will vote against the negotiating team's report, but we want to discuss it. If Kosovo is a justification for Serbia's return in the 1990s, then give the basis for such a debate on the negotiating team's report. That's what we have to do because that's what the resolution that we voted for obliges us to do. I have read to you the views behind which this Parliament stands. It's not about calling a new session. It's about finishing the second agenda. There is no debate on the election of Parliament's president until the debate on the second item of the agenda is over, until we receive a report, or until Parliament votes against itself and against its decision that it has previously taken, but we insist on voting on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u102	Thank you. Based on our insight into the stenographic notes, I can say that we're done with the second point, and we're expecting a report. Is there anything else to say? Here you go. Mr. Shin Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u103	I'm not sure, because it doesn't say that in my name or last name. I think the chairman seriously violated the Rules of Procedure and that it seriously questioned the fulfillment of the Constitution. I'll just remind you of article 101. The constitution, which says the first session of the National Assembly, is scheduled by the president of the National Assembly of the previous assembly, so that the session is held no later than 30 days after the final results are announced. It's been 30 days since the record was announced. A long time ago when serious political parties in the Serbian Parliament had to agree. As an MP, all I want to do is fence myself in front of Parliament and the public from such behaviour, because the people of Serbia have been brought into a difficult situation. Although the people of Serbia have authorised people, so, MPs, have been given the opportunity to answer certain questions here in the Assembly, this was done on the basis of an agreement that you organised, Mrs Borka Vukic, on the basis of meetings of representatives of parliamentary groups, and I don't think it is in line with the Constitution. I also believe that this is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, which gives me the opportunity to interrupt the session only if there is no quorum or if you need to obtain a certain opinion. Since you've obtained an opinion, that's not the case now. Your answer was that the Assembly was not scheduled for the reason that the majority was not needed, which seriously denied the rights of MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u104	Thank you. The session is scheduled with the agenda set up by the previous president, and I believe, as a lawyer, that I have not broken anything. If there are no more speakers, we might be able to conclude the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u105	I don't know why they're nervous radicals, this is a serious point and a serious topic is being discussed. Madam Chairman, according to the agenda set out by this parliament, was indeed the first point – Confirming the mandate or verifying the mandate, and the second item should be the report on the work of the negotiating state team, while the third point is the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The truth is that you say that this agenda, as the Constitution has prescribed, has been established by the president of the previous parliament, which we have no objection to. But there is obviously a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the Assembly would have to work on the established agenda. At this point, we must present all the dilemmas, and this is the capacity of the chairman, i.e. you are the oldest MP and chair of this session until the new President of Parliament is elected. There is a legal problem – what the chairman has the right to do and what he does not have the right to do, but I think it is the place and time to resolve all dilemmas as soon as we have established this. Until the agenda is changed, properly, legally, on the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, the functioning of this Parliament should be in line with the established agenda and that, at this time, or when circumstances arise, the debate on the State Negotiation Team's report on the negotiations that were, unfortunately, so long ago. The Democratic Party asked for a debate like this on March 30th. Since then, to this day, we have been insisting daily that Parliament is in session. The Democratic Party submitted Milena Milosevic to the President of Parliament on 30 March. There are a lot of questions that we need to open up a debate here. I will not talk about the budget and about the state financing in an unconstitutional way, nor about the fact that many of the rules that represent the elemental rules of organised parliamentary democratic life have been violated. This is about a state issue of a few excellencies and I don't see any reason to be nervous and hasty. We have enough time to break the established agenda and not discuss the State Negotiation Team report and Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say, speaking of moods, I've never seen any more smiles and good moods on the side of Serbian radicals than it is today. It seems to me that it is the same for the citizens of Serbia and for most of our people, Mr Petrovic. [[Applause]] You're the only person I see sad faces, worried faces, and pretty scared. I don't know what they were doing, and I don't know who's got tens of millions of euros in one bank in shares, but I hear it'll come out, and we can discuss it later. I am obliged to tell the next citizens of Serbia today. Citizens of Serbia, we do not have a report on the agenda because, respected citizens, there is no report and there is nothing to talk about today. There are no reports of the Negotiating Team, and we are sure that when it comes, we assume, Mr Leon Cohen, will find out what Boris Tadic was doing behind the back of our country and our people, so we will have a very serious debate about it. That's what he's already told the public. I am quite confident that we will have a thorough and very serious debate in this high house. So, Mrs. Vukic, I recommend that you do not act as undemocraticly as they did, when they say that the Rules of Procedure was injured, and they throw 50 MPs out; when they expelled from the Assembly of those who were not even in the congregation that day; when they did all kinds of abuses and rights of barbarism, like, for God's sake, come to vote in 15 days on whether the Rules of Procedure was injured or not. Don't wait 15, not a month, as it was in their time, but show that new Serbia is coming and that things are changing in Serbia, that change in Serbia Serbia's citizens are delighted to welcome these changes, because today we will declare their demands and citizens of Serbia to show that Serbia is going into the future and not in Ceku's past. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u108	He has the word Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u109	Of course, I report to the Rules of Procedure, given how he was advertised and why he was advertised, and especially because of what Ceda Jovanovic of the LDP, who has been involved in all this since earlier. I understand that, but I don't understand Mr. Petrovic, here, very simply, for the following reasons. So, I have with me a meeting of the First Session of the National Assembly in which it stands as a second point, it is important for the public to say this, which follows this event – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal for a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status as UN Secretary-General Martti Ahtisaari and a continuation of negotiations on Kosovo's future status and Metohija. The agenda was a motion for a resolution. About that name of the agenda point, we agreed, except for the one who disagreed, February 15th, and we knew exactly that day that we would bring a resolution to this topic. The content of this resolution speaks of some of the obligations of the Negotiating Team and of this House. As these obligations of the Negotiating Team will be realised, the question is, and it is answered that they will be realised within the same agenda, the same session, which is absolutely impossible. Therefore, the public should not be deceived about what has been decided in this congregation, as well as about the extent and importance of decisions arising from the resolution itself. I read your agenda here and the agenda point was closed. It is possible always and at any time to open a new agenda item at a session of the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, when a report of the Negotiating Team is found before us. That report would have been here before, this is what I answer to Mr. Alexander Vukic, if there were the political will that we have sought so much over the past month and a half or two days, that this assembly could find an opportunity or way to open such a debate in these two months. That's why we suggested establishing the Assembly before, but there was no political will. And the truth is, what we heard here was that there was an interpretation that the current chairman couldn't open a session like this and such a part of the agenda, because capacities wouldn't allow it. But, okay. We agreed to that, and I don't see what the problem is. That is why I see no reason to advertise in this way the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to claim something that is essentially impossible – that the second item of the agenda, which ended with the adoption of the Resolution, is also spoken of, while the obligations arising from the Resolution are linked by the Negotiating Team and the Assembly and the order to hold a session with one such debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u110	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u111	Mrs. Wolfich, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was very clear. The second item of the agenda is not finished, because the resolution we voted for, among other things, has obliged the Negotiating Team to introduce us immediately upon its return to the negotiations, through a report submitted to the National Assembly, on the course of the negotiations. Since we do not have any dilemma about honesty in representing the policy that this parliament has established and committed to this policy by the Negotiating Team, we expect the negotiating team to introduce us to the negotiations. If there is no report, then that's what the members of the Negotiating Team should tell us. This should be shown to us by the Proposer of Resolution, but that is all of us, i.e. our parliamentary groups. The agenda cannot be changed and the agenda cannot be voted on. The agenda has been adopted. The only way to get out of this situation is to consult with the Negotiating Team and demand that they appear here and discuss the course of negotiations, in accordance with the resolution that binds them to such a thing. If the argument is that there is no report, then we cannot agree with that argument because as head of the parliamentary groups we are familiar with, at internal consultations, with ourselves during the negotiations and that Serbian citizens have the right to know. I repeat once again, we insist on continuing the second item of the agenda, and then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can move on to the third point. As for the interpretation of the previous three months and the relationship to Parliament, it is not true that the representatives of the parties were ready for Parliament to be established in the way you have said here. We've been very clear. Parliament had to be established on February 14th. He has not been established because, like Kosovo, he is part of the party trade. Today you want to plant that account on Serbian citizens. Take it yourself, go out for a pay phone and tell us – we don't care what we voted on on February 14th, it is only important that we confirm that in Serbia we created Milosevic's system of values, which is realised by Milosevic's closest associates. There's no problem, but it has to be said here. Otherwise, we'll do this a thousand more times. There is no change in the agenda, because it is impossible according to the Rules of Procedure, and there is no giving in to violence because you are 40, and we are 11 or 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u112	Mr. Jovanovic, you will get the word, I would only ask that when you study this problem, you read the stenographic notes, in which it says exactly that point number two is adopted and also completed. It also says that the commitment that you are talking about, and I believe that, the future President of Parliament will end. After all, I'm just the chairman of the constitutional session, and that's what I end up with. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u113	There are circumstances that lead to political decisions to determine the order of steps that can not even be rules in civilised countries, but can be interpreted in a broader way. When Predrag Markovic scheduled a session – the constitutional parliament, he did just that. It was necessary after parliamentary elections that this assembly should have the legitimacy of the State Negotiation Team, because the National Negotiating Team for Kosovo and Metohija gave its legitimacy, its political powers, its legal powers drained from the authority given to it by the previous assembly of Parliament, as the previous assembly of Parliament gave the government of the Republic of Serbia the right, by voting for it more than 126 MPs, to be power in this country, and in that authority was Mr Dinkic, the party of Mr Aligrudic, which was supported by the Socialists. We know all that, what it looked like and what it was like, but there are processes that don't depend on us alone. Unfortunately for me, and unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, it is not only a process that depends on Serbia. There is a serious, significant, perhaps decisive international aspect of the process. When we found ourselves all together in the situation that it is necessary for those who represent Serbia, which is the State Negotiating Team, to get new political strength and new powers, then Predrag Markovic made a good decision. I have great regrets about how the President of Parliament, the former, was doing his job, but it was his good decision to, not against the Constitution, but creatively interpreting the Constitution, insert into the agenda a constitutional session just as it was read here, which is – a motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. Then what happened? Of course, a resolution has been adopted, but there is a clear obligation in that resolution, which is that this parliament should be pictured what happened in Vienna and in which there are now state-of-the-art interests in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the Democratic Party asked and insisted on March 30th that Mrs. Vukic schedule this session and we wrote it clearly in the explanation. We have proposed Milena Milosevic to the president of Parliament for at least two reasons. The first is the State Negotiating Team's report on Kosovo and Metohija. The second reason is to amend the Budgetary System Act, because at this point the state is funding itself against the constitution. So nothing against the constitution would have happened and nothing against the Rules of Procedure would have happened before the election of Parliament's President to this Parliament on the agenda was submitted to this Parliament a report on what happened at the negotiations in Vienna and on how things were related to the state policy on Kosovo and Metohija. I believe the Democratic Party believes that today is a priority issue to be discussed by this parliament in the report by the State Negotiating Team on Kosovo and Metohija, and I argue that it is not unconstitutional, that it is not against the Rules of Procedure and that it is in the interest of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u114	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad the citizens of Serbia can see who's nervous, and why, you'll see something later. Dear friends, we are asking a key question. On January 21st, at 22 hours and 30 minutes, when the election results were known, and then every day since January 21st 2007, we have called on all parliamentary groups to move towards the full constitution of the authorities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's a well-known fact. Every day we asked all of you to do that. Whether Mrs. Milosevic or someone else is going to be president, so that the committees are made, in one way or another, you could have arranged that. Three months you've been making deals, three months you've been building a Parliament, a government, and I don't know what you haven't agreed on. Now you're upset that you didn't make a deal and it's our fault that you didn't make the deal. We don't want it to be our fault, it won't be the citizens of Serbia's fault that you can't get around, I don't know, the transge france or some policy to make a deal. Serbian citizens want to have the Assembly, they want to have their own parliament, the one they chose. They want a report on the work of the negotiating team and will have it as soon as we elect the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. We pick the president, he schedules a new session, and we have a report from the Negotiating Team, so let's see what one member of that team did, what the other one was doing, what Guzenbauer was doing, what I don't know who was doing, what was being discussed, what were people doing, what were doing, what were they doing, what were doing, what were they doing? One more thing, when some here want to say they don't care about Kosovo and Metohija, I have to ask one question. Excuse me, who are you talking to? Are you saying that yesterday, which Agim Ceku on Croatian television praised as his allies and future comrades on the Balkan Peninsula? Is that what you say – yes, Kosovo should gain independence? That's what you're telling us who we're saying that, regardless of the violence of these helpers and sponsors of yours, we will always treat Kosovo and Metohija as Serbia. That's what we won't let you do. You who are the worst in Serbia cannot hold lessons more than you have ten times. You'll never be able to do that. One more thing. I hear someone talking about some kind of violence here. Here, as I have noticed, Mrs. Vukic, no one has voted from either Antalia or Sicily, or Bodrum, or Thessaloniki, or anywhere else. At least I haven't noticed that by now. I ask you that those who threaten and say: We will not endure it, ask if they will beat us if we behave in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm alive with fear when I see how dangerous they are. I'm just asking you to warn them that the fact that they're beating us up isn't exactly according to the Rules of Procedure, so tell them they're not doing it, that it doesn't make sense, that the citizens didn't vote for it. Please show them how broad, democratically oriented we are, put it to a vote, see what it looks like, and let Agim Ceku and those who serve Agim Ceku do what they want, but in the Serbian Parliament and in Serbia, servants of Agim Ceku will never boss.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u116	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u117	All of us can be witnesses that the DSS has sought to reach a consensus on the election of the president, regardless of the course of negotiations on the government. Let's leave it for later when the agenda's over, because then we'll get tired of talking about what it was and what it's gonna be like. I've heard some amazing things here from Mr. Jovanovic. He says – we should have built everything up and chosen all the bodies of the Assembly on February 14th. How, Mr. Jovanovic, when you put forward the thesis for a moment that the second item of the agenda could not be completed until the report of the Negotiating Team was submitted on the basis of the resolution decision? If the condition for moving to the third item of the agenda is to submit a report under Resolution adopted at the second item of the agenda, then that report should have been submitted on the same day after the adoption of the Resolution, because it is the only way to fulfill the structure that you have brought to us here. You can explain it by evening, you just said it, there's a stenogram, 100%, that the session was supposed to be over on February 14th, the day the resolution was made, on the basis of which the obligation was made to report to the National Assembly, and cannot be moved to the third point, to the election of the president, until the report is received. In your opinion, the Negotiating Team should have submitted a report on the same day that it was obliged to this resolution, in order to discuss it or not to know what had already been brought forward, so that then, on the same day, the President of Parliament was elected and the Vice-President of Parliament, the Assembly Committees and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you have a problem with the cognitive process, don't bother us with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u118	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the advertised violation of the Rules of Procedure. What is read is in the stenographic notes of the previous meeting of the Assembly. It is clear, by any interpretation, for those who have just passed the Faculty of Law, both grammatical and logical, both linguistic and objective, that a report must be submitted on what was the subject of the previous session of Parliament, which is the resolution on the status of Kosovo and Metohija. This advertising of the Rules of Procedure today turned into a re-competition in patriotism, false patriotism. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's not deceive the citizens of Serbia. I have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. You mentioned Cheku. Who collected evidence of the crimes of Ceku, Haradinaj and others? On the other hand, let's not lie to the citizens of Serbia and, above all, people of non-Albanian ethnicity from Kosovo and Metohija, so as not to again follow tractor processes, factory and sports halls. I know that here today is the establishment and reconstruction of the former government of the SPS coalition, JUL and the SRS. We have, though, instead of JUL's, some JUL mix, or JUL Light, but anyway. It doesn't matter, you keep it up, but Serbia will go backwards. Madam Chairman, you have two options. There's been an adjudication of the Rules of Procedure. You can answer that. You responded, or denied that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The MP who advertised it disagreed. Put it to a vote, determine when to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's clear to the payee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u120	The word is Mr. Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure is not the opening of a debate, it is not the beginning of an open debate and I know that you do. Madam Chairman, I invite you to apply article 100. Rules of Procedure. Those who just advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure know she's gone. I remind - the MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Assembly, gives the word immediately, as it was. The president of the assembly, in this case the chairman, is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. Mrs. Wolf, you've given an explanation. The final position - if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. Please don't break the Rules of Procedure here. Otherwise, this would turn into some kind of debate, and there's a chance for that. The bigger problem is this paper that has arrived, that is, the reason to open up a lot of discussions. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure and conclude that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u122	The word is Mr. Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u123	The replica of the exhibition Mr. Aligrudić had, but also what Mr. Vukic said. Mr. Aligruditch, that you and I don't understand each other is a well-known thing. We haven't understood each other since 2003, we haven't understood each other since the Socialists voted for you, we're getting less and less understood, and we won't, as far as I can see, in the months that come we can't understand each other. It's your political decision, you spread the circle of your friends, it's your right. Of course, it is your right to extend your friendship with the Serbian Radical Party, which you chose in 2003 after the elections and in early 2004, all of this is your right. Those who have given you the mandate will think about it, and when the new elections come they will decide whether your decisions are good or not. If and when you vote for the SRS, and it will be people, there are about 600,000 who voted for you, know that they recognize, evaluate, and the next time they go to the polls they'll give their judgment on it. I know what's gonna happen. I know what's gonna happen. So, it's no problem that you and I don't understand, I'm used to it, the citizens of Serbia are used to it, and we're going to come out of this as one normal, civilized European state, and I'm sure some of those who contributed very much to it in 2000 will no longer be in politics, will not deal with politics. Now something about this other thing. Yes, Mr. Vucic, I am concerned, I am concerned that today we cannot open a debate on the State Negotiation Team report, I am concerned that the opportunities in which Serbia is located are far from good, I am concerned that the DS asked for this session of Parliament on 30 March, and it is only today. We've lost a lot of time. I'm worried about the loss of that time, just the things you were talking about, about Wolf Jeremic and about Guzenbauer. That is why a report by the State Negotiating Team should be discussed, that we should show these lies, falsely, that farce made by some who create public opinion in Serbia, which is why it is important that the State Negotiating Team submits its report here. You, Mr. Vukic, if you are happy and happy, it is your right, but I don't know if anyone in Serbia who deals with politics today can be happy and happy. I'm worried. (President: Time) And, let me finish. Otherwise, Mr. Wolf, there were more dangerous people than you, who I wasn't afraid of, who were involved in politics, because you said I was afraid of something. Well, neither the late Slobodan Milosevic, who ruled this country, nor I was afraid of myself, nor these people who make up today's Parliament Club DS. We are not afraid, Mr. Vukic, there will be a great fight, I am aware of it, it should be aware of the citizens of Serbia, there will be a great fight, but, Mr. Vukic, in history we sent Slobodan Milosevic when you helped him. We will send you into history when those who are for Slobodan Milosevic help you to do nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u124	The word has Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u125	I am also concerned that today we are not discussing the report of the Kosovo and Metohija Negotiating Team, but I am concerned that you have raised your voice too much and you are attacking the Assembly. It is the easiest thing to have a co-chair on the Negotiating Team, so to say, there is no session of the National Assembly until the Negotiating Team submits a report, and Mr Boris Tadic, as president, does not submit a report. Now, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will wait for Mr Tadic and Kostunica to have mercy to submit a report, and in all that time, until these great people have shown mercy to file a report, we will wait in their homes. It's a illogical story, it's not a defence of Parliament. Parliament must work, it must exist. This agenda item is over. The report, even if it had arrived at the National Assembly, could have been on the agenda when that new session was scheduled for someone to be elected, and you know it very well. There's one other thing about all this, it's that you take in the mouth of the SRS. Take some gum, take something, Mr. Petrovic, which can give you pleasure. I never speak ill of voters who voted for you and who chose you, and you here dare to speak ill of the largest group of voters in Serbia. I was in prison at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's rule and, frankly, I wasn't afraid. During your rule and during the rule of Zoran Djindjic, many honest people in Serbia were afraid. Crime came through the big door when you came to power, and that's the crime we need to clear up. I'm embarrassed to hear you disagree at all with other members of the democratic bloc. Now the language of communication is also a problem. I guess they'd like a little more Russian-Chinese combination, and you'd like an American version of English. Probably the translators didn't translate well and it's stuck somewhere, but three months at a time, I'm listening to you agreeing, and I'm asking God to make a deal with anyone in Serbia about anything. But we've been telling you for three and a half months -- don't play with the Assembly, it's not the government, it's nothing to do with the establishment of the Assembly. We were both involved in making the Constitution. Did we imagine a pointless situation that Serbia had no government after the elections for four months? Well, that doesn't occur to anyone who writes the constitution of any democratic country in the world, it is understood that in five days people will agree and make a government, but you don't understand. Tell your president where he is lucky that he immediately entrusted his mandate, not to hold it in his pocket and wait for his party's negotiations with another party. Who gave him that right? Why didn't he trust the strongest party after seven days, which he didn't trust after 15 days to the other party in strength, and it would be over? There's no government, there's no choice. No, he's waiting to see if his party can make a deal, so he can give a mandate. He has not yet entrusted the mandate and what, on May 14th, he will entrust a mandate to someone, and then he will say – since no one has formed a government, I am disbanding the Assembly. Think about everything when speaking to voters in the congregation. It's okay, you can tell us whatever you want, but you've started talking to voters, and I see what this is all about. There's no shame in being with the DSS in the coalition, because you've been with her for three years in the coalition, and I can say it's a shame, because I wasn't, and I'm not going to be, but you're saying it's wrong for the DSS, and you've been negotiating for three months, and it's just the ministry that you're working, it's sarcasm, it's just a completely illiterate politician can say it. So, you trust the voter's will, and so will we. We said everything about Kosovo and Metohija, and I hope you will support our amendments to the draft budget. The budget must boost publishing for the military, and the finance minister can no longer say – I can only fund 5,000 troops, but Serbia will say how much it will finance. Trust in the voters, and so will we. Get ready for the election, and so will we. And don't accuse the SRS of any unprincipledness. Here, now I'm telling you in front of everyone, I'm a serious man and you know it well, today there's no coalition made, today it's created, I have to explain, it's obvious you don't understand anything, a congregation majority was created for the establishment of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm guessing you're all patriots. Don't put yourself into each other right away. I think everyone who's been elected by the citizens is a patriot. So, from today on, probably, when you allow it, and I really have time to go, from now on, we will have a built-up National Assembly and you will open up a front for political conflicts and for representing voters, but don't use Kosovo and Metohija at the point that's over, the point that when it's on the agenda will be very painful for your party, very painful for the secret negotiations your party is having around Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u126	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u127	Mrs. Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it wasn't the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure that was motivated by the need to argue here on this issue, especially given the fact that all of you, past LDP, are truly bound by the resolution. You voted for that resolution together. We voted against that resolution. You wrote the Constitution together, voted together for the Constitution, campaigned for that constitution. It all obliges you to formulate a clear answer. It is true that we have scheduled the Assembly very soon after the election was over, it is true that, at that time, by consensus of most parliamentary groups, the Rules of Procedure were violated. (President: Which member? ) Article 90. Rules of Procedure. It is true that even then we insisted on establishing the Assembly, just as it is clear that the DSS does not want and cannot, but has no interest in understanding. On February 14th, the order of moves had to be different – the election of Parliament's president, the election of vice presidents, the establishment of assembly committees. You, because of the political calculations in which your partners from the Democratic Party and the G17 plus spent the previous months, assured us that there was no election by the President of the Assembly without agreement on the establishment of a clear parliamentary majority that would stand behind the President of Parliament and behind the Prime Minister. It's a debate for another agenda point. We're not done with each other. You can't vote on that. The aim of the objection and advertising of the Rules of Procedure was our desire to point to your hypocrisy. You are not interested in Kosovo or the constitution of Parliament, you are interested in survival in power, and you are ready to do anything, to argue with those with whom you have been in co-habitation for the previous three years, to support the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party, and to tell us that it is temporary and that it is not binding on anyone. You can't do that. The honeymoon's over. We are the opposition in this House, far from any kind of support. Every kind of support has its own high price. The price is at least paid by the parties, and the most paid by the citizens. That is why we oppose the agreement you have made, the constitution of Parliament in the way it is intended and I point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it is a form of democratic parliamentary obstruction, and the lessons from parliamentaryism cannot be held by other DSS heads of parliament, neither can you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u128	Thank you. Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this kind of thing already makes sense when it comes to politics, when it comes to someone's ideas, whether they agree or disagree. Regardless of all the disagreements, one can say something, whether he has the right or whether it makes sense to represent such ideas. But I was delighted with Mr Petrovic's recent advance. Mr. Petrovic, every time I look forward to seeing your intention to go out for this pay phone. You take out your eyes a little bit, you start yelling, and then you're pretty sure everyone in Serbia will hear you. Just because they hear you doesn't mean they'll approve of what you're saying. Mr Petrovic, people in Serbia today, at least one day, 24 hours, will rejoice because 24 hours of your back will see, and your authorities, because 24 hours of freedom they will feel that they do not feel for seven years, 24 hours will feel like people, 24 hours will say – there are no thieves and villains after us, 24 hours will say – there are no robbers and bastards who stole all the factories in Serbia, privatised everything possible and put them in their pockets. There are no 24 hours in power of those who have 11m euros in one bank in Serbia; 11m euros in one of your thieves has, and you will hear today during the debate who has. Elevenm euros, dear Serbian citizens, is worth 10 per cent of the stock in one bank, 11m euros, Serbian citizens, has one MP here, a senior official, in his name, 11m, not a dinar. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's why I'm looking forward to it today. I know that a great fight awaits us, not against you, no one would ever vote for you, but against Cobel, against the money, against all those who destroy Serbia, we will fight them in the elections, and that is why a great fight awaits us, and that is why our victory is important, Mr Petrovic. That's why we're going to beat you. I have another sentence to say. These people that you sat down with yesterday and talked to and talked to, these people that you made government with yesterday and said it would be the best government in the world, now they're bothering you. Did you lie to the people all the time when you said it would be the best government? You didn't seem to be telling the truth. I guess you didn't really talk about it quite honestly. What's the problem? The problem is that it is not respected, and now I quote Mr Petrovic, "the will of the Serbian citizens". Some parties in this country do not understand who the citizens have shown the highest confidence, so although they have received fewer votes, to gain some greater power, to gain wider authority. Let me remind you, Mr Petrovic, if you are uninformed, the SRS has received more votes than your coalition with the Rasim Ljajic coalition and the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina. Your three parties together received 300,000 votes less than Serbian radicals. It is the will of the citizens of Serbia, Mr Petrovic. That is why Serbia is looking forward today, and it will especially rejoice when the right freedom comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u131	Dear Madam Chairman, Mrs Borka Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the people, one of our fellow citizens wrote on a building in Resava Street in Belgrade, with the reputation of the famous Decart: "I am ashamed, therefore I am". I entered this building with a question first to myself, but to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, are we still, if we don't know we're ashamed? Are we even if we've completely forgotten what shame is? From Mitrovdan to Djurdjevdan, this country and the lives of millions of people in it covered November, just as it teaches and teaches us the etymology of words, the all-slave words: "stud", of which the Serbian word "fad". But here, they don't see each other today, here and now, on the cheek of some, no traces of frost, no traces of shame. One Spanish saying is, I quote: "The powerful without shame on the face, on the cheek, are ready to create a wound in the heart of the people." Ladies and gentlemen, we have not begun to fulfill a letter, nor is it stuck with what we have promised voters, citizens of Serbia, the people of Serbia. Without an apology, without a shred of conscience, without shame and shame, the people stick to the days in suspense, for weeks, for months, the people are in desperate shape. A mouth filled with once-promised promises to the people has been turned to torment, and today the question of guilt arises from the lips of some. Well, I'm sorry, we read the point a long time ago. Will anyone bring this people to judgment and grant him the role of Joseph Ka? Those who still have a healthy sense of hearing can hear more and more loudly and clearly the people’s question. That question, I agree with you, Mr. Tomo, says, "Who are you?" If I gave you my vote, you don't think I gave you right to my life. We did not vote in favour of the "Cursed Ave" for "Stradi Land", we voted in favour of Serbia in which to live better, richer, in which the benchmark of success will be established by how many euros per capita will be, not for Serbia, in which it will threaten the people to lose their heads. I confess, these questions are bothering me, and for these reasons, I am speaking to you, Mrs Vukic, asking you to answer the question why Parliament has not been sitting for so long. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking and proposing that the Assembly make up an unforgivable press release in which the public will be openly presented who is responsible for the fact that no meetings of Parliament have been convened so far. Otherwise, Mrs. Vukic, we become followers of political philosophy, which Mrs. Mirjana Markovic exhibited in a lapidar way, saying, "Parliamentarism is suitable for England, not Serbia." My colleague Slava Djukic has just exposed it to the critic and the scariest mockery. And we'll deserve a laugh if we don't make a public statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u132	Mr. Dusan Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u133	It's a lot of bile spills. It is clear to the people who are watching this assembly today and it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that we have only considered it, and I am speaking here on behalf of the Democratic Party Parliamentary Group, that it is good for the state of Serbia and for every citizen of this country that we agree today to, above all, debate the report of the State Negotiating Team on Kosovo and Metohija. I don't see why anyone would say anything against it unless there are MPs here, MP clubs, who are very eager to reach some state functions, and I can understand that as a man. I can understand as a man that desire is great and that at some point you can assume state interests. I took the replica because I wanted to say here that it was completely false what Mr. Nikolic said. I didn't say a single word to the voters of the Serbian Radical Party. I respect every voter of the Serbian Radical Party and respect every Democratic Party of Serbia voter, I respect every citizen of this country. We are all representatives of Serbian citizens here, we make decisions that affect the fate of people who live here, and I respect my country and people who live in it and have political rights. I'm not going to explain to you, Mr. Nikolic, whether someone is speaking Chinese, Russian or whatever, but the truth is that, all this time, they are very complex and very difficult negotiations on the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia regarding who the ministry is going to take. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, it's a lie. We fight all the time for the politics we believe in. The policy became the country's ruling policy on 5 October 2000. We have been fighting all this time, since January 21st, for but Serbia continues to lead the policy it led since October 5th, 2000. I know you're against it, well, we beat you. As things stand, there is no agreement on the establishment of the majority in this parliament, for Serbia to continue the course it took on October 5th, 2000. That's the topic, not the ministry's topic for the Democratic Party. Mr. Nikolic, there's one very important thing here, and you've taken the word a few times and you haven't told the truth. You also spoke a lie when you said that the President of the Republic had not entrusted you with the mandate to form a government. It's a lie. He couldn't trust you with his mandate. After the January 21st elections, consultations were held. The president of the Republic of Serbia called on representatives of all parliamentary clubs, the Serbian Radical Party's MP club had its own delegation and all the members, as far as I can see, are here, in this building of Parliament. When asked whether, ladies and gentlemen, you from the Serbian Radical Party have a candidate for Prime Minister, they said – no. You didn't have a candidate for Prime Minister. Do you, Mr. Nikolic, manage to maintain order in your party or not, I don't know. I see that several times through the papers you asked for that mandate, but the people you sent, I count that you sent them to the President of the Republic, did not pass on that request to Boris Tadic and did not meet the conditions for you or anyone else to be proposed as a candidate for Prime Minister. The Democratic Party has proposed Bozidar Djelic and consulted on whether there are 126 MPs or not. So it's important to be absolutely clear all the facts about what you're talking about. Mr. Wolf, you are mistaken, but I don't know where your delusions come from and what causes them, however the vote ends in this assembly. It may be over by Aligrudić and the people behind him, whom I am looking at right now and seeing that they are very difficult and uncomfortable, means that Mr Aligrudić and his MP club are voting for you today, as well as Mr Markicevic. It's all parliamentaryism. Anyone sitting in this assembly has the right to make a decision he considers to be in the interest of Serbian citizens. I think it's a very bad decision for Serbia and that's why it's going to be a big fight. It is your delusion, Mr. Wolfie, that the result of that vote will lead to you seeing our backs. Mr. Vukic, the Democratic Party is an opposition, and I'm not going to tell you that, because you know that, but you're here trying to achieve some effect on the public. So, since March, I don't know exactly the date, in 2004, the Democratic Party was an opposition and was an opposition for three years. The Democratic Party won twice as many votes in the January 21st 2007 elections as in the 2003 elections. The Democratic Party will win twice as many votes as it is now in the next elections, and I believe they will be very soon, and then we will be able to lead a policy that will make Serbia a modern, well-organised and good country, a country where the voters of the Serbian Radical Party, as well as all citizens of this country, will be much better than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u135	This is like when you turn off the lights and the child says: I'm not afraid, I'm not afraid! I've been listening to these autosuggesties – we're going to beat 'em up, we're going to crush 'em. [[Applause]] Well, once the election's over, you shrink like mice. Let's not be heroic. [[Applause]] If you are indeed an opposition, today let Boris Tadic resign as president to finish the job, Mr Petrovic. If I'm really elected president, you'll have the right to use all the time in this world for a campaign. You'll see what democratic leadership of the Assembly looks like. Even today, you can work on building your campaign and building your courage. You are not an opposition party, and you spend about 40% of the budget, all the budgets in Serbia, and perhaps more. Whoever spends the budget is the authority, the one who negotiates on behalf of Serbia, is the authority. He who commands the army, he is the power and he is not the opposition. I've never heard of the opposition commanding the army in a country in the world, and maybe it'll be a democratic rule. You called yourself the five-eyed men. You beat us on October 5th, and since then we've always beat you, and since then, Serbia, afraid of what you've done, has been directing its course and trying to get back to the direction it went until October 5th. Perhaps today Serbia will, with this vote, challenge your sponsors to begin to praise you, threaten us. It may give you new money to use in the campaign, but I can no longer imagine the rally of the Democratic Party on which a German would appear to tell Serbia how to vote. Now, you won't be able to do it anymore, because your Germans have made it clear and loud that it's not enough for them to separate us from Montenegro, what they take from us from Kosovo and Metohija and it won't be much for them to take from us Vojvodina, Rasko – no, they're looking for our soul. If you sold it, here we are today counting patriots who don't sell their souls. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u136	Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u137	I thought we were gonna talk about all this stuff later, on the third agenda, not now. But, Mr. Petrovic, you challenged me for the exact thing you said, which I must confirm. Unfortunately, everything else you've said is incorrect. The exact thing you said, and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, it is here to be confirmed, is that everything that we haven't agreed on in the last six months, with our common guilt, was built as an impression that it was about ministries, about personalities, and that this is why we didn't agree -- it's not true and it has nothing to do with it. Today, I have to confirm and publicly state one other thing, in order to finally know what this is about. I see that you're going to a pre-election campaign and that's what it says about one clear thing, about your attitude that you've brought -- that you're not thinking about making a coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia. But people don't know that you knew yesterday, and the day before yesterday, also, last week, and three weeks ago, the only thing we probably didn't know. The difference between you and us in what we didn't agree on is obviously at a serious political level. It is certainly reflected in a small sector that has personal coverage, which is a security sector, but it is obvious that the difference is not in personal approach, but in the extreme outcome, because obviously someone among you, I can't blame all of you for it because I don't have the basis to do it, has the intention of conducting dictatorships outside of this country, someone who thinks that outside of this country is being arranged by the ministries and the composition of our ministries, the composition of our government and our system of security. When you realize that we have recognized such an approach, you are now no longer comfortable with having talks with the DSS about forming a new government, even though we have been loyal to these talks and negotiations all this time, regardless of how these meetings were not held at that pace, the extent, and the number that should have been in case they wanted to be honest. We've been waiting for you for the last two weeks to sit down and talk seriously about this. All your conversations with us, which I know best, were briefings in a very short time, short phone conversations, and all led to rounding up a system that should be provided for someone else, not for the interest of Serbian citizens. That's the problem. Gentlemen, I want you to return to your sincere conversations, within the framework of that compromise proposal offered by the DSS. Of course, you're laughing, because honestly you never wanted to, and that's your problem, and for this speaker you've never heard of, until this moment, anyone by the DSS has tried, as I have personally, to run a campaign for new elections and so forth. [[Laughter in O.R.]] You were the first to say that today, Mr. Petrovic, and you were the first to launch a story today regarding a new election campaign. You're the ones who are looking for a new election, because I guess you think someone from the West or the one where you're taking orders isn't responsible for the DSS being in power at all. That's what your political stance is, which you're definitely using today. Today you had a chance to hear, as the public heard through the media, that the DSS once again called DS and G17 plus for a sincere and serious deal, to accept the proposal that we made. We can also open a story about the correction of these proposals, if it's personal solutions, but I'm afraid and I can clearly see it's not about that and it's about something else. It would be good for you to open it here, so that we know to the end whose orders whoever gets and who you think has the right to regulate our personal relations and solutions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If that's the problem, then let's open it to the end and see what it is. If that's not the problem, Mr Petrovic, then how do we convince the people that we really didn't agree and that what you said earlier is true – that it doesn't matter who's going to take some place in the government. How do we convince the people that it's not true? What are you talking about here, Mr. Petrovich? Then what are you talking about today, because you've launched the entire campaign today, please explain. We tried to tell you that we would invite you to say something especially under that agenda point, but now we can't, because we simply didn't believe that we could open this discussion. We need to vote for a single proposal, all of us, due to the democratic procedure in the assembly, regarding the election of the speaker. If it is someone who can represent us, then the largest number of MPs in the Assembly, and if it is a candidate by Serbian radicals, will vote. If, Mr. Petrovic, it were you, or if the Democratic Party had 81 mandates and they were 64, without a moment of reflection, we would vote for your candidate and any candidate in this assembly. So you're making fun of something that we're trying to set up as a principle of further work and trying to replace the thesis to cover up real intentions. That's what you showed today in your presentation, and that's what we have to point out, to get it out in the light of day. It must be heard today by the citizens of Serbia and then to see who has been distracting who here for three months and why we do not vote here for both the Serbian government and the president of the assembly, because to vote together for the government, today the president of the Assembly would reflect that majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u138	Replica, Mr. Petrovic, and Mr. Jovanovic, then Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u139	Mr. Aligrudic, it is clear that you are entering a very clear way of speaking, which shows which side you are going irrevocably. You're trying to be more Catholic than the Pope, but that doesn't work. [[Applause]] You'll hardly be worse than the radicals, you'll just fail, but that's none of my business. Your decisions are your responsibility. I want to say something here that can't leave me without an answer. Mr. Aligrudic, are you aware that you are accusing us of treason? (Responsible by MP Aligrudic, from the post: Yes) So, Mr Aligrudic confirms today that we, therefore, are the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is its authorised representative in Parliament, has declared the Democratic Party a traitor party. (Repeats by the Radicals – yes!) Of course, it's not the first time, Mr. Aligrudic. It's not the first time you've accused us for no reason at all. No evidence has ever been given that anything that was addressed against state interest by the DS, neither in 1990 nor 1993, nor when the DS president was Dragoljub Micunovic, nor when the party president was Zoran Djindjic, and they accused him from all sides, not today when Serbian President Boris Tadic was DS President. So, Mr. Aligrudic, you're on your way, it's clear now, in an election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u141	I have to, Mrs. Wolfie, he said the hard words. So it's clear to me now that, in fact, you didn't end up getting consent from the SRS that you'd be building the government together. We do not understand whether you will be in the government with them or are preparing for new parliamentary elections, and in these new parliamentary elections, DS betrayal should be a topic. So in 2000, when we happened to be together in some coalition, the theme was that we were all traitors, and here, you now found it appropriate to accuse DS of dishonest things and dishonest deeds, and it had nothing to do with reason, with facts. The Democratic Party will not, nor can form a government unless it is clear that the government is leading Serbia to create a modern, normal European country, that it is a government that will defend its national interests, which will defend the integrity of the state in Kosovo and Metohija, the sovereignty of the state in Kosovo and Metohija. Yeah, whatever anyone wants to say, we're used to it, ladies and gentlemen. You can do whatever lies you want to speak. If you're going into a pre-election campaign, once again, I urge you that before this pre-election campaign, if there is a new election, it goes, which the DS doesn't want, that we do what we talked about at the beginning of this debate, which could have been missed, to talk about the State's negotiating team's report, because I think it's the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the interest of this state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u142	Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't take the floor before Mr. Jovanovic. I've also reported several times for Mr Petrovic's first presentation, for a personal replica, but you didn't give it to me. Just to make things clear, otherwise, I'm sure that in a parliament that doesn't run the DS, everyone has the right to a free word and their opinion. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Petrovic, a representative of a group of Democratic Party MPs, the Sandzak Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Croats in Vojvodina today told one truth. Otherwise, he made it all up. Our people said it in another dictionary, and I won't today, because of the high house we're in. I thought he cut his eyes at some point, but he cut them out. Mr. Petrovic said one thing about what Mr. Aligrudić was talking about, he said – it's not our first time. That's right, Mr. Petrovic. It's not your first time. You've been like this since you were founded. You've been like this since the beginning. From the beginning, some Cobel or Carla del Ponte have been giving you orders. You've been working for everyone else since the beginning, against your country, and of course it's not your first time. I am sure that most voters in Serbia, when voting for the DS list, a list of the party Rasim Ljajic and the HDZ branch in Vojvodina, know that they vote for people who should take care of Serbia's interests, not Cobel's interests or anyone else. I know that you serve only their interests and most Serbian citizens know that, but that's not the problem. The problem is that you have dared to say at some point today – did Tommy Nikolic care about coming to a state office for 7 or 10 days. How can you not be ashamed? From no board of directors, none of your so-called thieves have gone all the time to government, for God's sake, the DSS, the SPS, and I don't know who. I'm watching the Olympic Committee of this country. It's a set of worst bandits and thieves. It's the Democratic Party's main committee. Whatever forum we look at, from the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and beyond, everyone from the DS. What kind of opposition are you in? Where are you? What are you talking about? It bothers you when we accept your words. Well, we respect you because you said - citizens' will must be respected. The one who received the most votes must be in the constitution of the Assembly, as you speak for the constitution of the government, to get those votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u144	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u145	Our time, as you know, dear Mrs. Wolfie, is just coming. So, Mr Petrovic, Mr Nikolic certainly does not long for functions, but for responsibility, to show that in Serbia there is much better and more to be done for people and citizens, not to be done as you have done – against people and against citizens. Let me tell you something. People from all over Serbia report, they can't stop it, the enthusiasm is in all cities, because people already see your back, people hope they'll never see you again in so many cities. You can't stop the joy of people. One more thing, I, Mr. Petrovic, have great respect for you. Every once in a while, I feel like you're making something up for me when you're passing through, and I'm getting chilly right now. Maybe I misread it, I apologize if that's the case. I have some advice for you. Don't go out for this pay phone again. Ever since Gilas Grola slapped there in 1945, so the Democratic Party joined the Communists, they've always worked for someone else, never for their people and their citizens, ever since. For you, a little bit, Mr. Petrovic, cut your eyes backwards, think, both of you and your children, your children of Serbia will be much better when the radicals rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u146	Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to ask you a question. The question is, are you aware that what we're talking about right now, the way we're talking and everything that's going on, millions of people are watching, expecting a solution from us, expecting something to happen and to stop the agony that's going on. This agony has put all people in Serbia in a position to directly suffer and suffer from it. It's a thing you can't take anymore. We simply have no right to do this to people in Serbia. Of course it is necessary to discuss and debate the report of the Negotiating Team, but, on the other hand, as far as I understand the assembly procedure, when something was voted on, that point was over. There is no reason for all of us here to waste time, looking at how to postpone, through endlessly offensive arguments and words that we refer to each other, what needs to happen, which is the election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president needs to be elected and based on that, we need to see what happens next. The basis of every democracy is an institution. Institutions must be kept and maintained. The fact that I personally think the SRS must be banned, it is something quite different, for the simple reason it tells of that very many people vote for the party, most in Serbia, can be compared to the next. I remind you that the most savings had Dafiment Bank, and yet it did not become a state bank of Serbia, for the simple reason -- that it spread lies and seduced people, promising lightly things that are not real. But that's part of the story. The other part of the story is that I am absolutely in favour of immediately joining the election of the president of this high house, for the simple reason that the government in one country does not stick to the police or the repression. Serbia is a state made by Milo Djukanovic, and the population in it is held by Olli Rehn. This is the situation of Serbia today, and don't, please, let the difference between this home and the ordinary circus do what we have a building built, and they have to crucify the tent. The matter is simple, the president of the National Assembly is elected under Article 104. Serbia's constitution, with 126 votes of MPs. That means the absolute majority. With just as many votes, the Prime Minister is elected. So whoever chooses, in 15 minutes, five minutes, or five hours, the president of the National Assembly, that is, quite logical, has a mandate, a possibility and most of it to form a government. Let's not lie to each other anymore, let's stop lying about some kind of democratic block, the patriotic block, see who's on which side, look ourselves in the eye and see what we're gonna do with all of that. With this approach, we will come to ask ourselves in a few months whether we are involved in being part of something that we are not naturally part of, a block or a block that we are not part of and which we are not going to be part of. I would have ended with words that were wiser than me, which, due to similar debates in this high house, 60 or 70 years ago, between the two wars, spoke – save me, God, Serbian heroism and Croatian culture. I will now say – save me, God, radical patriotism and DSS legalism.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u148	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u149	Madam Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is the last moment to return the seriousness to Parliament. Those who sincerely wanted to discuss the State Negotiation Team's report, should have suggested that. The aim of our initiative is very clear and we are behind it at this point. We believe that the precondition for the debate on the election of Parliament's president is to take clear political positions. This is where we heard the call to patriotic consciousness. Here we also heard the explanation of the absence of patriotic consciousness and the accusations of some kind of betrayal. It is not the language of parliament and it must not be politics in Serbia in 2007. Therefore, Parliament needs a very clear way out of this situation, by simple voting. But this vote obliges those who will then, in an open debate on the election of Parliament's president, build their argument, among other things, on the alleged defence of Kosovo and the national interests of Serbia, because it is impossible to do something like this, without being interested in the State's negotiating team's report. As far as the charges of treason are concerned, this is the last topic we can discuss and which we need to agree to. In particular, it does not agree with the LDP, since we are faced with accusations coming from two political parties – one that has destroyed Serbian society, during a period of government through a coalition with Slobodan Milosevic, and another that the response to treason should be sought in its ranks, which should be the answer to ask BIA director, because it is the only person who has undoubtedly committed an act of high treason during the past few years, and this should be a topic for the Assembly Security Committee. I mean BIA director Radet Bulatovic and his illegal and anti-constitutional behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u150	Mr. Gavrilovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u151	Dear MPs, I am obliged before I say a few words about this debate... Unlike you, yes, Tomislav Nikolic. You don't have to throw it that way, it's not right. Historical facts, Vukic, show that in August 1945, a Democratic Party MP in parliament submitted a proposal for a law on freedom of fear. You call such a messenger a traitor and that he served the Communists. Shame on you! Dragic Joksimovic defended all free-minded young people in court proceedings, including the trial against Draža Mihailovic, and therefore ended up in Sremska Mitrovica and ended his life there. These were representatives of the Democratic Party between the two wars, that's what they are today. There's that truth, though. Yours was a pre-election steam – where Serbian countries are, there are Serbian radicals. Now, let's all look together where these are Serbian countries and where there's radicals. Are there, perhaps, in Republika Srpska, in Republika Srpska, Montenegro? They're nowhere to be found. What has no radicals is small damage, but there are now no Serbs and there are fewer. That's the policy this party's been running. We heard, too, that a new Serbia is being born today. I don't mean Velje Ilic, but some new Serbia. Is that Serbia that supported the SPS authorities, with the world's largest inflation in 1992 and 1993? Is this the new Serbia whose time was formed by Dafina and Jad, and the funds taken back to the citizens by the new democratic power? Is that the new Serbia where Vucic will be the minister of information, that we send people back to prisons and that journalists are killed? Is this the new Serbia in which we will have 1,000 dollars per capita again, and Slovenia today has 17,000? It's gentlemen, the result of the political decisions you've made in the 1990s. If that's the new Serbia, I'm just asking the DSS gentlemen to take care of it, to decide today or tomorrow on something, where Serbia will go for a long time. It's not just a personal question. This is a major political issue and therefore it is important to understand these messages, that they are more of a need for something Serbia should have overcome. Let's take a look at our environment. Whoever co-operated with the world in the right way managed to provide their citizens with a better standard, more work, a better life, and no one in those countries was considered a particularly traitor, especially a patriot. Did any of you think, when you were so many years in power with the Socialists, that Hungarians, Romanians, Bulgarians, with all due respect for those countries, would be ahead of Serbia? That's exactly what happened because of the policy that you've been running, because of the policy that you want back here today. This is why it is important for you to understand that you can no longer sell the horn for the candle in Serbia and that neither Tomislav Nikolic nor Aleksandr Vukic will succeed, no matter what they call themselves and what demagogue abilities they have. It's all very limited and it's all fleeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u152	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u153	Mr. Gavrilovic, like every Democrats, escaped as a mouse, left the hall, was afraid, as every Democrats always fear everything. He ran off to the last bench, I apologize. Don't throw it at him, I'll never tell him he's an asshole or anything. Don't throw that at him. I'm not going down to his level. What the citizens of Užica think of him - we know, but I won't talk about it right now. I'm just saying, even if it's worse than that, I have to say, in Serbian it's a liar, and I don't know how to say it in a nice way. Mr. Gavrilovic, you were in power at the time of hyperinflation, ashamed to be you; Zoran Djindjic has appointed Miodrag Perisic as minister in the federal government when we were in opposition, persecuted. You're ashamed of anything you're lying to the nation here. Zoran Djindjic took 300,000 marks from the Dafiment Bank, not us, Serbian radicals. That's why you need to tell the truth, talk about it, steal everything from people and citizens of Serbia. You took Daniel Boyer's money, Mr. Gavrilovic, and that's when it started, so it's not the first time, but who knows which time, Mr. Gavrilovic. That's why it's who knows which way, because you guys smoke your eyes out, like everybody in the DS today has a hard chair, you think someone should be afraid of you. A time of fear has passed, and from you, Mr. Gavrilovic, Serbia is free from fear of the worst frauds, thieves and criminals, and that is you from the DS, the worst bandits who have ever ruled Serbia, the worst scum that has ever been in power in Serbia. I tell you, Serbia will no longer suffer your senses, anywhere or in any way, anywhere at any moment. You're the one who wants to ban parties. You're the one who'd like to arrest a little bit, a little bit of fighting, a lot of things to do. We, Mr. Gavrilovich, will not forbid you. We will not ban even the jobs of one who boasts that you are traitors, thieves, criminals and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u154	Mr. Wolfie, you promised you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u155	But I know, Mrs. Vukic, that you too feel how true this is and how much this is the right thing for Serbia to hear, so you'll allow me for another second. So, hey, you thieves, you got one here with 11 million euros! Shame on you, that you're saying something to someone, 11 million euros is on the bill. Did he run away? No smaller people, no more money in one place. How much, 10% "Meridian Bank" - 11m euros. I have to tell you one thing, cut your eyes, because you didn't scare us, don't scare the citizens of Serbia. Fortunately for them, you will not decide Serbia's future anytime soon, fortunately for our children, above all, on our future, Serbia's future, not Cobel's future and any union or anything else. Serbia looks at you with contempt. Thank you too, Mrs. Vucic, you have indeed shown how in a different, real democratic way can be managed by the Assembly, much better and much different from how dictators, along with Mr. Gavrilovic and others, have done in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u156	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. I think the replica was enough. I'll keep you posted. Well, don't. Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u157	You see, about today or these days, when final negotiations are being held that a new majority will be formed, only here, in the Serbian Parliament, we hear that there is one parliamentary majority for the president of the Assembly and for its bodies, and the other parliamentary majority for the government. To see such an example, it will be clear to the citizens of Serbia. But there's no such example. Nor does he have what he wants now, we now have a technical government, so now we have a technical assembly, so maybe we have a technical state. That's about the ultimate political goal. And when it comes to millions, to remind only the citizens of Serbia that, together with the presidency and some parties at the time, Cyprus from this country, in the 1990s, was brought between six and 11 billion dollars and that today in Serbia, the richest people who had drawn and brought that money from Cyprus. At the time, there was a Serbian Radical Party, or an aide to the Socialist Party of Serbia. These are the facts, and it is always that: hold the thief, when you hear a man shouting like a wolf. What's the reason for that? He's got no arguments, he's telling the truth, so he thinks he's gonna use a stronger tone to replace the lies he's telling, and he's not gonna be able to do it today or tomorrow. As for fear of you, I wouldn't be afraid of you being more powerful than you are, and you're essentially more afraid of rabbits. You ran whenever it was hard. Then one story can be made about how we're going to get into new combinations. Now that Serbia has moved a little bit, they would like to come to power again, so they can take back the money they own. Well, it won't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Gabrielovich. Mr. Wolfie, but very short.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u159	Just for a little while, I'll make some new arguments, you'll be happy, believe me. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Gavrilovic made me laugh sweetly, I don't know if it's still a problem with the chair or what it is, but cut them a little bit backwards. As for fear, of course you don't need to be afraid of us, of course, we're democratically oriented, we won't ban you, we won't beat you, because we can't, because you're the strongest, and you have Cobel to beat us. What are you guys going to do, not at that level? But there is one thing I want to tell you - we will arrest thieves for Cyprus as well, and it seems to you for Cyprus that all of yours are involved, because you do not say the name of any radical. I don't know that there were any of us in Cyprus, and of you, I know many of you, from your authority in 2000, so I fully agree and accept Mr. Gavrilovic's initiative. Mrs. Vukic, you know Cyprus, as a great expert, as a true expert, a true expert, unlike these ignorants, but you know how much they stole. Because of the general danger of these major crimes that this gang has committed, please agree with the future president, he will, I'm sure, accept, put it on the agenda of the Assembly and discuss who stole the Cypriot money. Again, like when you look at Dafina, like when you look at cements, like when you look at everything in Serbia, you will find these "yellows". That's enough! That's enough! Enough of your robberies and your thieving and enough of your intimidation! We're not afraid of you at all. No matter how many of you there are, you can't do something to me once, not with radicals like this, to do something. There's nothing you can do. You're the worst in the globe. We're going to beat you, and it's not because of us, but because of you, and because of your children, because it's going to be much better for your children when you step back a little bit, and some of the better ones come to your place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u160	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Since many MPs are obviously not familiar with this, I will read it in full: “The MPs of the people are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. “ I’m sorry, I obviously don’t speak your language, I was ashamed to listen to this, and I believe that many Serbian citizens who watch this were ashamed to see who represented them. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u162	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u163	So, I'll just take a minute. Whoever is in this House longer, those who follow it, know that they are false and offensive, false accusations, slanders, so strong if it is necessary to explain things that are more inconsistencies. I understand the mental unrest of all those who want to vote today for the President of Parliament, because it is one terrible political inconsistencies, but I will also use it as an end to this address for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't even know what it's going to look like to those who get the votes, what it's going to be like today, when the light of day in Serbia, two or three months ago, saw a book that was the subject of traffic here, so they sold it in Parliament. It was a good price. Dr Vojislav Seselj is the president of the Serbian Radical Party, as you all know, and he wrote a book, which is quite large and thick. I'll tell you what political inconsistency is, and you'll see when there's a vote for the President of Parliament. The book is called "The Political Partner of the Whore del Ponte and the Whores of del Kostunica". I'm asking the cameras to show the book and its title. When it comes to such severe political inconsistencies, when it comes to getting to know the public, of course it's the easiest to lie, to accuse without any evidence, you're making false claims, because you're trying to cover a huge deviation from the policy that represents a good thing for this country. We will see how today's Parliament session will end, but it is very important that the whole of Serbia knows that a book is being sold in this assembly that talks about the current relationship between the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia. We'll see, maybe things have changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u165	Mr Petrovic, I will give you another book from Dr Vojislav Seselj – "The Murder of Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u167	Mrs. Vucic, you, as chairman, must react to what the candidate for the President of the Assembly has said and the MP for the Republic of Parliament. I ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you place a measure of distance from the session of MP Tomislav Nikolic, I expect you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u168	That's what we'll decide in the voting day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u169	Mr. Nikolic, you're just proving what I said. The greater your inconsistency, the rougher, the harder words, the greater the untruth, the greater the evil comes out. I don't need to study this work. I only warned those who would vote for you. The Democratic Party will do everything possible to make you the shortest president of Parliament and to go to a permanent and historic opposition in the next parliamentary elections, and some will disappear from the political scene. There's no need for me to study the works you've brought here now. I'm sorry, Mr. Wolfie, you were mistaken. I had no intention of telling you anything wrong. You got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u170	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to notice that they sometimes like the title of the book, and sometimes they don't like the title of the book. It's just the title of the book. You're not going to ban books, are you?- I'm sorry. I know that you sent people to ban books, Life of Ivanovic and Nikola Milosevic were reviewers, which has not happened since Tito's period, because you would forbid a different thought, because you would forbid anyone who would otherwise say anything about your authority. Don't threaten and throw, I know you're very strong and brave. There's no point in people hearing you swear from a pay phone, and you're not exactly the kind of Democrats you represent yourself in public, when you mention your mother to me, and to let you know that I don't have a sister, I have a brother, that I don't hear you by any chance that you tried to swear something. So, let me inform you that only evil comes out of your sight. According to Foril-Broz's theory, exactly when they look at you, they see evil for you and see how and what you can do to Serbia. This is the truth, Mrs. Wolfie, you know. I know you understand this, too. I'm finishing up, and I'm asking you to go to the polls, because when you go into voting, no one can interrupt you, to help you with that. As for the Serbian Radical Party and what you will do or do not try, try, do not try, the future is ours, and you are left with an infamous past, so let history judge who did what in the past, and for our children they must vote much better than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u172	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, I would like to say that during today's day, the Rules of Procedure, first and foremost, has been severely violated, on your part, because you did not allow all MPs to represent the citizens' interests equally for this speaker. Some people are allowed multiple times to come out for this pay phone, and some of you do not allow them to make their first appearance with objections because of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to appoint a member of 85. The Rules of Procedure and that only the President of the National Assembly can schedule a session of the National Assembly outside the day as set out in the Rules of Procedure. The chairman doesn't have a right to do that. This is a constitutive session, scheduled by the previous president of the National Assembly, and you have no right to schedule Monday's assembly, as you did today. On the other hand, you are required to put to the vote today all proposals which raise doubts about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because there are no voting days at the constitutional session; only the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure may set a voting day, but when it comes to sessions that are not constitutional. Therefore, if you do not act on the suggestions of the MPs, you will in a rough way violate the Rules of Procedure and thus undo any decisions that this congregation has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u174	I think it's time to return to the dignity of the National Assembly and leave it to be considered by the one whose jurisdiction these are. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I would like to inform you that we are in accordance with Article 10. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly received proposals from candidates for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, two proposals. As you have obtained in the material, the first candidate is Milosevic Milena, a member of the Democratic Party. The second candidate is Tomislav Nikolic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party. I remind you that according to Article 10(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly may explain the proposal. Do the rapporteurs want to explain candidates' proposals for National Assembly President? The first is Mr. Dusan Petrovic. Before you begin, Mr Petrovic, I would say that, in the spirit of Article 85, I will do everything that stands here and extend the work of the Assembly if necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, more than a month ago, the Democratic Party proposed Milena Milosevic to the president of the assembly on March 30th. That proposal was made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We have proposed to Ms Milena Milosevic, and I would like to remind you that, in order to create circumstances in which it is possible to make very important decisions in the situation in which Serbia is. On March 30th, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the deadline was up until the state had to be in the temporary financing regime. It was very important to pass a law on changing the budget system. On the other hand, here is more than three hours of debate before the debate began on this issue, and we talked about the fact that it is very important to reopen the debate on the Kosovo and Metohija issue and on the State's negotiating team's report. I think it's very important that I highlight all the facts that led us to make this proposal on 30 March. Ms Milena Milosevic is an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the third term already. Ms Milena Milosevic has done very responsible and important jobs during her political engagement and operation. She was eight and a half years president of Vračar Municipality, the Belgrade Assembly, and before that she was vice-president of Vračar Municipality for more than two years. The Democratic Party has a very clear policy on how people representing citizens of Serbia, citizens who voted for the Democratic Party, so MPs, councilors and municipal presidents should devote themselves to the jobs they are doing and show them their full attention, to do everything they can to make these jobs as best possible. So, Ms Milena Milosevic has, for seven years in Parliament, been in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Democratic Party considers that all the conditions are met regarding her personality, her democracy and the ability to do the job of the president of the National Assembly of Serbia in a responsible and good way. I want to say something that represents, as far as I can see, the dilemma today, which refers to the election of the President of the Assembly. The election of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a political issue of first order. It can never be either, will it ever be, or in Serbia, or in any other country in which there is a regime of parliamentary democracy, the election of parliament's president to resolve technical situations in which one assembly can be found. To elect the speaker of the assembly, it is necessary to establish a majority in parliament. The majority cannot be technical, the majority are political. The majority of MPs in this assembly, therefore, need 126 parliamentary votes to elect the speaker of the assembly, determines the policy or policy framework for which the majority in one country exists at a time, for which the majority in Serbia exists. We today, and we will talk about it when the debate opens, we have two very clear proposals in the National Assembly. The Democratic Party has highlighted Ms Milena Milosevic as its candidate. Milena Milosevic is a person who can be an extraordinary president of the National Assembly, but the proposal to be the speaker of the Assembly is a proposal for a single policy, a policy proposed by the Democratic Party, a policy, and I have said it several times here, which became the majority in Serbia after the elections in September 2000 and after the violent events that followed the elections and led to the constitution of democratic power. So, the proposal for Ms Milena Milosevic to be the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a proposal to establish in this assembly the majority that will preserve the main policy direction Serbia has had since 2000, is a proposal to form the majority that will allow Serbia to become a democratic European society as soon as possible. It is clear that an important and large political decision will be made today. Today we will get a clear understanding of which policy is the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I want to say the elements of this policy, the elements of the policy proposed by the Democratic Party. We had confidence that in a wide range of parties there was an agreement that this country was leading such a policy, a policy that needed to continue Serbia's accession to the European Union as soon as possible. A policy that should lead very quickly to the continuation of Stabilisation and Association negotiations, a policy that should bring Serbia candidate status for membership to the European Union in 2008, a policy that should remove all obstacles the country has due to failure to meet international obligations. A policy that will have the strength and ability to truly defend Serbia's vital state interests, to truly defend the interests of the country in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, in terms of preserving the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state, a policy that will be able to strongly fight crime, corruption, above all, a policy that will be able to form a strong and capable government of the Republic of Serbia after the election. Then it's here in the end, but far from being the least important, on the contrary. If we were a country and a society with at least a little less problems than we have today, problems with preserving our territory, problems with the heavy heritage of the 1990s, which, in fact, opened up the existence of our international obligations, that, therefore, such a country, is what is the last element of which I am going to talk about, the last element of that policy, would be the most important, because it is the most important thing in every country that has no such pain as Serbia has. It's an economy. So our belief is that the formation of a majority for the election of Parliament president here today and for the election of Milena Milosevic is also an assumption of the formation of a majority that will establish a government that can enter fast economic development. This will help us to enter fast economic development, which will lead to reduced unemployment and inflows of foreign investment to activate the domestic investment potentials Serbia has. I believe that without it, we will enter a time that will be very difficult for the citizens of Serbia. But it's courage to deal with politics in difficult times, because it's the only way to get out of these difficult times. We dealt with politics as opposition, while Slobodan Milosevic was in power, and we managed to give Serbia a chance. Today, this assembly and MPs sitting in it need to make their decision on whether they will give their vote to Milena Milosevic and start the process of establishing a new government, which will strongly lead Serbia where it will safely end, sooner or later, in the European Union, or we will decide to pass some more years, such as last year between 1990 and 2000. The Democratic Party votes for a normal life, for normal Serbia. Democratic Party Proposes Milena Milosevic [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u176	He has the word rapporteur for the Serbian Radical Party, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward as a reporter. I have today, based on Articles 9 and 10. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, an exceptional honor to propose for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a man who runs the largest parliamentary group in Serbia, a man who led that political party that received the most convincing trust of Serbian citizens. The first sentence I would like to make, which will show what we are different from each other, without wanting to say a single bad word about other proposals, is the essential thing that our proposal will win – Tomislav Nikolic to be the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am making this proposal because Tomislav Nikolic, of the seat of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will not lead such a policy towards these or those, but will do his job in the most democratic way. [[Applause]] They won't forbid anyone from expressing their opinion. It will be He who will show what freedom of speech means in the right sense. It will be the same for Dusan Petrovic, until election campaigns, like Aleksandar Vukic, Natasa Jovanovic or anyone else. He will be the same Mr. Aligrudic, as Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic will be. And that's what I can say today. It will be his job in the coming period, I can say it today, and it will be seen how our parliament, as a real democratic one -- will not be voted from distant places across Europe and Asia, where there will be no kidnapping of parliamentary mandates, and where anyone who thinks it is necessary to talk, about any proposal, will get their chance. I'll read something, and then I'll give myself the freedom to say a few words about Tomislav Nikolic. Tomislav Nikolic was born at the 1952 meeting in Kragujevac. According to his profession, he is a construction technician, and he started his rich work career at the Gegrap Construction Company. He was head of construction on the Belgrade-Bar track, and worked in Majdanpek, Priboj, Trebinj, Belgrade and other places across the former Yugoslavia. In the company "December 22nd", he was head of 12-year investment, and for two years he was the technical director of the public utility company in Kragujevac. Since 23 January 1991, he has been a member of the Serbian Radical Party, in which he was first elected its vice president, and at three of the latest Serb Radicals congresses, by a secret vote, he was elected vice president. Since 1992 Tomislav Nikolic has been the only MP, the only man who has been an MP in every assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is today the man who has the greatest experience in the Republika Srpska Assembly. We, his political associates, friends and associates, as well as his political opponents, know that Tomislav Nikolic is a man who knows best the Rules of Procedure of the People's Assembly and all that you can consider to be ordinary parliamentary law, that he has the most experience, that he is always quite calm and patient towards his political opponents, and I believe that this represents his great quality in relation to all others who would like to come to such a post. I would just like to say that Tomislav Nikolic, although this is not agreed to be said, but I will take my liberty and tell myself, one of the people who suffered the most difficult possible verbal attacks in the previous period. I'll remind you, by the way, that it was a man who, thanks to a personal accident, had a very difficult way of life, who had built and educated himself, and he had to support himself and his family. His progress in personal and professional life is truly remarkable and that anyone who wants to be objective, in any way, could and had to notice. I must say, it was a man who had managed to keep a smile on his face in the past and when he was accused of the most brutal lies of the most terrible things. I'll remind you of the terrible lies in a campaign run by one media house in Belgrade, accusing him of godless crimes and others. Then they said, "Puj dots don't work, we made a mistake, I'm sorry, when they confused four months that they didn't like in lies. They're the same ones who got him an apartment, and then it turned out to be an eight-year-old boy's apartment on St. Sava Street. These are the ones who run the worst and dirtiest campaigns every day, and have not heard a word worse than Tomislav Nikolic himself, a word harder on his own. Don't even imagine how hard it is to survive and how hard it is to endure, stay big and show everyone that, regardless, you are able to forgive. I know that Tomislav Nikolic has great experience from the previous period in the National Assembly. We were together in 1995, when he fell under the chair and, literally, no matter how funny it sounds or looks today, he barely pulled his head out. But it was much harder after 2000, when every day he had to look at how he would behave, not political opponents, but those who wanted to crush us in every way. After Vojislav Seselj left for The Hague, Tomislav Nikolic was correct after writing the indictment here in Belgrade. Five years after his departure to The Hague, there is no trial because the prosecution is unprepared, because the indictment was written in a hurry here in Belgrade. After that, Tomislav Nikolic succeeded, by his state-owned relationship (probably caused by a mobile phone, so you heard a beep) to raise the Serbian Radical Party and to restore hope for Serbian citizens that change in this country is possible. This time I want to point out one thing. This is not a vote for the Serbian Radical Party's political programme. This is a vote for the establishment of the National Assembly and it is normal and logical for all political parties to vote for whoever received the most votes in the elections. It is perfectly normal for one who receives the greatest support to receive this kind of responsibility, even in the national representation, that all the bodies, in accordance with our ordinary law, be made proportionate to the number of MPs, or proportionate to the people's will. I am quite confident that this parliament, at least working a day, two, seven days or three months, until a new one is established, or I don't know how long, until you've done most of it, would work in an absolutely legal and perfect way if Tomislav Nikolic led it. I call on all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to vote on their conscience, of course, but I call on them, at the same time, that citizens who await today's decision of the National Assembly, we think that the majority of them are waiting for it with some small hope that something in Serbia can change and that it can be different than before, who are waiting for Tomislav Nikolic's election, to take part in this election and to vote for Tomislav Nikolic for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to vote for our Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u178	Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u179	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament... You've broken Article 100 again. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because you did not give me an explanation, and you were obliged to do so in article 100. You have announced another violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is that the Assembly will work after the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. That, again, can only be determined by the President of the National Assembly. You're not the president of the National Assembly. Therefore, you do not have that authority. If you represent your position as National Assembly President, then you will also have to schedule a vote on the future president of the National Assembly in the voting day. Either you will respect the Rules of Procedure consistently, and you will make the difference between the constitutional session and the regular session or you will continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, as you have begun. I am waiting for this speaker to give an explanation as to whether you respect my objections to the breach of the Rules of Procedure made during the previous reporting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u180	We're talking about the 3rd agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u181	You are required to give me an explanation, in accordance with Article 100. If I'm not satisfied with your explanation, I can ask for a vote. That's what article 100 says. If it joins the vote for the National Assembly president, if any of the candidates who have appeared under the Rules of Procedure are elected, it will not be possible, due to conflicts of interest, to set a day on its own to vote on the objections I have made. Therefore, I ask you to give an explanation regarding the objections and decide whether any voting proposals will be decided now, before the election of the National Assembly president.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u182	Since I'm not the president of the assembly, I can't give you an explanation and I'm asking you to go to your place. Prior to the opening of the search, pursuant to Article 94, I remind the MPs of the National Assembly that the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary groups. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 10(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u183	It was finally time to talk about the subject, even though we moved it to the earlier part, when we talked about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Now's the time to clear up what we're doing here. We have two proposals ahead of us to elect the president of the National Assembly. Otherwise, in political practice, everyone knows that, when elected by the President of the Assembly, it usually reflects the will of the assembly majority, which is manifested in such a way that, before or at the same time, the policy that the assembly majority will represent and that policy is reflected in all states that I know that democratic states are manifested through the elected government. So, the government's choice defines the policy represented by the assembly majority by defending the government and by the rule, although there are exceptions in certain countries' offices, but by the rule of business it is envisaged, and that is political practice, that also the president of the assembly be elected to reflect that will, that assembly majority. So, for us from the DSS at no time would be a problem to vote for any candidate proposed by any of our coalition partners in the event of an agreement on the formation of a new government. And in that sense, I don't want to discuss personal solutions, but for us, the solution of our coalition partners that we would be presented would be absolutely acceptable, if it's part of our agreement. What I can safely say today, and for which I regret, is that today we do not have an agreement on a clearly defined parliamentary majority that would support a policy expressed through the Government of the Republic of Serbia elected by this House. It is therefore automatically related to whether there is an agreement on the position of the president of the National Assembly, because in our system, and that history has shown, it is practically unbreakable. Unfortunately, today we have no agreement on the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I will return to say why not. We're in a position to have two proposed candidates. One candidate is a political party that has 64 seats in this parliament. It is a political party, under the circumstances with which the Democratic Party of Serbia has negotiated; I do not know if it is still negotiating, but we have certainly negotiated three months to form a new government. The other political party is the political party with which my political party has not held talks at any time on forming a parliamentary majority, supporting a government in this parliament, and I do not know that at this point it is at all, which has proposed its candidate for National Assembly President. The political party has 81 seats in the National Assembly. We have tried several times to reach an agreement on this matter. First I heard it from Tomislav Nikolic, about two and a half months ago, maybe there's more to it. The proposal was reasonable – to form the Assembly until the end, and to leave it to those who continue to negotiate matters when it comes to forming a government to do so. That deal didn't come to date. There was an initiative by the Democratic Party a few weeks ago, and I think there is already so much, when she proposed to Milena Milosevic, and then she gave the motives that she explained, as I recall, and besides, there will be people who will give that explanation better than I, by the Democratic Party, by having to first select a president who can respond to new challenges that Mrs Borka Vukic cannot and, secondly, in order to pass a law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, and for the sake of a clearer way of financing the Republic in the period in which we are. That was an explanation at the time. We had a second explanation when we spoke with our potential partners, including those who were not, and they represent newsgroups in the Assembly, but our motives were different. We wanted the president of the assembly to get over the situation as soon as possible, because we were all agreed that the chairman of the first session could not open a new debate, or a new session with a possible report on Kosovo. Today we heard something incredible – that the chairman could have done it. That kind of attitude, that kind of reasoning I've never heard in our consultations, until today. Today I first learned it from our friend in this House. It's just that there's a question that's the answer. We suggested then and then, in our conversations that we had, not once, it could be heard that this solution could be before it was a well - known congregational majority. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the assembly majority who support the government's government's policy, because the government is leading the country's policy, according to the letter of the Constitution, and that is the only thing that is relevant when it comes to determining politics through the congregation's majority. That's not agreed. So at this point it's not agreed. One possibility was that we could all agree on one candidate. The option was even that it might, paradoxically, be the smallest parliamentary club in the assembly, that maybe he gave the candidate for National Assembly President, so of course the biggest club refused. There were other solutions. The only thing that makes sense at this point, and I really mean to invite you all to think about it one more time, if we don't have an agreement on a defined parliamentary majority through government support, which was the aim of the election, and the whole process ends with the government's election, if we don't have it today, the only thing that makes sense is that we all vote for something that makes sense -- it's logical to vote for the candidate of that group that has the most MPs in parliament. In this case, it's the SRS. The question arises whether it defines some policy by those who would vote so. If everyone voted for it, it wouldn't be possible to ask that question. But someone wants to make a double, someone wants to push the proposal. I appreciate, it is also possible to make a proposal by a smaller parliamentary group for Parliament's president, but then it is indeed, as some of my predecessors have said, specifically related to forming a parliamentary majority, supporting the government and indeed forming a political direction. That's what we agree on. In another case, it's an artificial division and an artificial duplication. We need to find a way out of this situation. One way to find a way out is to really get the strength to support something that's logical, not what we're politically agreeing with. It's not necessary, it's something that makes sense. The issue of political harmony seems to have been left behind. I'll tell you one thing, what I think is actually happening here. Those who were not ready or for certain political reasons at no cost want to make an agreement on the government with the DSS, or because they really don't want to or because someone ordered them to or because they have a new party president sitting on this side and his name is Cedomir Jovanovic, simply do not want to make a coalition agreement with the DSS. Then they put the political party in a position to define itself in front of the ultimate requirement that, my God, we now declare ourselves Serbian politics, a political democratic candidate who would lead the National Assembly, because, my God, that is the only way to determine the state's policy at the moment. People, that's not true, it's simply not true, because that's true and that there are political reasons here on your part to define the political majority, why we don't vote on the government today. Which is why the president of the Democratic Party has informed the Democratic Party of Serbia that none of the compromise solutions, in the past three days on our part, has been offered, is not responding. I'll tell you why. Because every solution offered to us by the Democratic Party meant the only, exclusively and absolute control over everything called the Ministry of Power, over everything called the intelligence service of this state, so that none of the partners could influence that area and that field. Even when it seemed on Saturday that these arrangements would be reached, on Saturday afternoon, as far as everything we had agreed with our then potential political partners, perhaps still potential, we were informed that everything we talked about was no longer drinking water. A completely new proposal has been made that brings the whole negotiations back to its starting position. I know these people sitting here who were involved in the negotiations can't deny what I said. If they deny it, they'll say nothing but a disgusting lie, and this is what's true. After all, we need to agree to an ultimate request to elect the President of the Assembly, my God, which defines the policy of this state and this Parliament through that election. Gentlemen, you've heard from us before in our presentations, while we had a debate this afternoon, that it's simply not true. There is a very simple question: whether there is a political will for those who have negotiated to form a new government, or not. If there is no and if it is expressed through the position of the president of the state and through what we heard from him as president of the party yesterday and the day before and through what can be heard today from the head of the DS parliamentary group, who declared war to the DSS today during his first presentation (naturally, not the real war, but the pre-election war, by talking about how elections are taking place, how it is all over), sorry, gentlemen, it is not defining the political direction of the country, it is not defining the political majority, and that is not what we were talking about. I did raise one doubt today as to why the negotiations were interrupted, because I don't think I would, and I think I can speak on your behalf, although we may not agree on much, that the citizens of this country think that the government didn't do it because someone didn't want to give up their principal or ministerial post. Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens and fellow citizens you're listening to can't really be true. If there's a reason, he's a fundamental political nature and I'd like to ask that fundamental reason to be presented. Yesterday, the reason for the fundamental political nature was suggested by Democratic Party president and state president Boris Tadic, which is why DSS proposals are not acceptable, and has just explained it with politics. He didn't explain that he didn't like someone's sniff, that they didn't like someone's name or someone's proposal for a position. He explained it in politics and said there are political reasons. It would be good for these political reasons to be heard, because if they come down to what we heard from the president of the DS MP's club in parliament today, it is, firstly, incorrect and extremely hypocritical, because there is no goal, Mr Petrovic, against whom we would be, from those whom you said when you spoke about what the government would advocate, what the government would advocate, what your party would stand for, and that it would be controversial at the moment when we should reach agreement on a new government. There was just a little bit left on Saturday, and that kid made a whole lot of it on that same Saturday night and Sunday, and I'm just wondering if it's possible that it happened. You, gentlemen, although you don't all know it, perhaps Mr. Petrovic himself doesn't know it, and if he knows it, then it's a great honor for him to be instructed by someone that any presence of the DSS in the government or any interference in the security or intelligence sector in Serbia is inadmissible. Who could decide that? Surely the Democratic Party is not alone, and I believe a good number of members of the Democratic Party that I personally know would not have thought of it that way. Therefore, today's election by the President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, do not plant and confuse with any political solution or by imposing an attitude that is about defining the parliamentary majority that determines the country's policy. The country's policies, gentlemen, are determined by those who have been tortured in negotiations for three months, and have tortured this people to watch it, should sit down and define that policy through the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is fortunate, this Parliament should have come forward today, not to do what we are doing today. But if that's not the case, and if your will is such that it's not the case, we think it's our duty to stick to some principles. This principle is to invite you to do what is reasonable, not what is politically close to us, and it is reasonable to support the candidate of the largest parliamentary group, and this does not exclude any possibility of either being an election or forming a defined parliamentary majority. But, gentlemen, if you insist on the proposal to be Milena Milosevic, believe that in the current circumstances, the DSS certainly cannot, nor has the basis to support this proposal, nor do we view it as a proposal that defines any policy, in that sense, this Parliament. Therefore, in order for all the debates on this troubled topic to end, I believe that one-hearted support should be given to the candidate for whom it, my people, is logical. Then, if there's any need and if there's any luck and there's any sense in this country, we'll discuss political solutions for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u184	Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u185	I'll use my time at the end of this discussion, I have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. Today, the same situations are simply repeated, when it is impossible for a speaker from this honorary payphone to say really how things are and what the truth is and then the hard words and the heavy insults begin. Again, Mr. Aligrudic has brought the untrues here, said an insult to the Democratic Party, but well, that's his business. Since he opened the question here about how negotiations were under way to form a government, I just want to say what's true. When you say the DS has the intention to control the entire security system in this country, then let's, Mr. Aligrudic, that you, me, MPs in this Parliament and the people watching this transmission decide how logically sustainable what you say is. The Democratic Party's proposal was for the interior minister to be from the Democratic Party, and for the director of the police to be a man who is currently the director of police and who is appointed by the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose President Vojislav Kostunica is; for the BIA director, please, this is very important, to be the man proposed by the DSS. We agreed, at one point there is an open question here in these negotiations, that it should be an expert, and we immediately support this, to be a non-partisan person, someone who is truly competent and enjoys the trust of professional circles and citizenship, to be BIA director. We have proposed that the army minister, the defence minister be from the DSS, and that people who, professionally, with great responsibility, carry out their work, such as the Chief of Staff and the people who are at the head of security, so intelligence and counterintelligence military protection, be where they are. And let's see what that means in the security system. Of course, it's not a monopoly, it's a matter of mutual control, and that's what the Democratic Party has proposed and asked for for the security system, because it's a way for the government to be stable, for the state to be stable and that we can do serious and difficult jobs and that with this great pain that the state has, we can handle how we can, we know and know, with the potentials that the state has. When you tell the truth, the easiest thing to do is to take out some very big lie, even bigger than that, and to say that, on the one hand, someone wants a monopoly, and then it's a traitor, because they won't agree to continue to run politics the way you've led it so far. So, Mr. Aligrudic, the problem is that the DS won't enter a government that will continue to run the kind of policy you've led so far. One year ago, negotiations with the European Union were interrupted – we will not agree to this, we want to fight to make this a normal and civilized country – and for this you will not have the support of the DS, and for normal politics you will have the government and the support of the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u186	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u187	I'm sorry, I had to answer the Rules of Procedure, because it's just an incredible ease with which you say the truth, Mr. Petrovic. You said the exact following: that you offered each other control. First of all, I don't think we should bother this house with all the details, but because of the public, since we started the discussion... So, you first wanted complete control for yourself, and what you offered us, which is a piece of paper that came from your party black on white and we can give it to the public and publish in the paper if you want... It says that what you offer to your other coalition partners consists of protocol duties, you offer the post of Director of Police in exchange, but gentlemen, this place is not a political place, it is not for political agreement. The post of Minister of the Interior is the place of deputy, i.e. Secretary of State, yes, but it can't be a police director's place, gentlemen, you've messed things up. Secondly, if you are talking about the Ministry of Defence and if that is what you mentioned, you have strictly and explicitly stated there that the General Staff has nothing to do with it and that it must remain under strict control of the Democratic Party, or the President of the State. When everything was collected and taken away, all you had to suggest was nothing, and everything we came up with with the rough negotiations on Saturday was hit in an hour. That's what this is about. So, you've trampled everything, you've returned Saturday night's negotiations back two months in an hour, and that's what you need to tell the citizens of Serbia. So then you decided to insinuate an incompetent Democratic Party of Serbia, which I guess has no way to confront you media, to tell you what's true and what's what you're trying to do. Mr. Petrovic, you're pretty messed up about this. We will also tell you what happened, and how we will represent it, and if there are honest among those who have negotiated, since not only the DSS and DS, but someone else has been involved a little bit in this process, they should be able to tell what is true and what is not. Therefore, this is not how the government is made, and in particular it is not made in such a way that there is a reasonable doubt that someone outside of us and outside this Parliament does not want any of our political parties, specifically the DSS, to have any effective influence on what is called the Ministry of Forces or the management of the security system. Gentlemen, that's the living truth. There's no other way. Anything you say about this speaker can only be reduced to one simple word, since I am a decent man, that is, false. It's true when what is not true is spoken unconsciously for some time, and the lie is deliberately false. I'm not going to accuse anyone of lying, but what you've listed here is simply not true. Therefore, it has nothing to do with today's session, nor with the election of the president of the assembly, nor with the election of the president of the assembly in the way you tried it three weeks ago. This problem can only be understood in one way, as malicious, and as a wish, in whose motives I can't get through to the end, to simply agree on what has been trying to achieve three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u188	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u189	I apologize, sir, for not only did he not participate in the negotiations and who said in all the media that he did not participate in the negotiations and that he did not know what was going on there, but that he was a man who was incompetent to talk about security structures. Mr. Aligrudic, the defence minister in each country is a very serious position, the interior minister also, the police director is the first police professional, chief of staff -- also. We offered you the position of BIA director, the man who was soon your party official. You say we wanted to take everything from you; so you, Mr. Aligruditch, have won a bit. With what capacity, Mr. Aligrudic, are you talking here about the security sector control when your government received 16% support from Serbian citizens? There is no logic with which you dictate the pace of negotiations, you explain the negotiations here, and you have not participated in any of these negotiations. That can confirm, as you said, the third party sitting here. Please, next time you're talking -- you're telling the truth, that you're not beating the citizens of Serbia, that you're not running into the back row, that you're ashamed like you're sitting in the front row right now. We will still meet and talk about what you plan to do in Serbia and on which and whose account you are doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u191	I went to the back row to get a better run. Whether I took part in the negotiations or not, I don't know. If it's the fact that you participated in them, Mr. Sutanovac, then no wonder where your negotiations came from. That's what's here, unfortunately, exactly what can be determined. That's what you're avoiding saying. I think we're slowly entering a sector that bothers those who are watching this and who are present here on the other side, who have not negotiated and who perhaps we don't want to make a coalition, maybe so many should be respected. But what should be said is that the proposal submitted to us by the Democratic Party as the last one was ultimate, that it contained solutions that were important and fundamentally different from the solutions agreed on during the previous day, on Saturday, that the disputed place was overcome by, like, something offered to change everything else, and that this change was such that one of the partners, certainly not you but someone else, made it impossible to have any effect on these sectors that I was talking about. He is Chief of General Staff, a professional soldier, but everywhere in the world, the Department of Defense has a direct influence from the Secretary of Defense. If the proposal were as you gave it, it would start from the President of the Republic to the potential Milena Milosevic, president of the Assembly, which is probably not going to happen, and to everything else, you would have, with 64 mandates of 250, complete control in the state. I accept that my list has received 47 terms; you have 64, but that is barely half of the MPs in parliament, gentlemen. In any case, what you've said, apart from the offensive tone and the way you talk to the MPs that the people have chosen in this House, which serves you honor, nothing to do, Mr. Dear, with politics, and unfortunately neither with the brain, is there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u193	Mr. Aligrudic, next time you say I have nothing to do with your brain, please take off your tights before that, so get ready to get your ears out, as you deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u194	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really can't believe what's going on here in the Assembly. We have Mrs. Borko Vukic, who holds the presidency, Tomislav Nikolic is elected president of the assembly, and the two largest democratic parties -- the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia are arguing. Is that normal? Do both parties know how long it took for those who made the Democratic opposition to Serbia, particularly Mr Djindjic, Kostunica and others, to agree and bring down the Radical regime and Milosevic on October 5th, and now, because of the BIA, police and defence issues, to play with Nikolic's power. Where's the wisdom in that? What's the point? Is it the party interests or interests of the citizens who voted for your party because it has democratically on its behalf? For G17 plus there's no dilemma. The G17 plus will vote for the Democratic Party candidate. We have no dilemma, we want Serbia to go towards the European Union, we want to continue economic reforms, we want to solve citizens' problems. However, the message is quite clear: if this parliament votes Tomislav Nikolic to the president of parliament (this is a message both sides), G17 plus comes out of the negotiations on this government. It's impossible to make a technical president of the Assembly. If the President of the Assembly is now elected, and there is no government deal behind it, then what is the choice? According to the Constitution, in seven days the congregation is disbanded. Why are we even talking about the president today if the assembly majority for the government isn't made? That's the basic question. You gave no answer to that, no one who supports Nikolic as a candidate. Why is G17 plus against Tomislav Nikolic's election as Parliament Speaker? We heard Wolfie, who usually when he talks here, yells, and now he's read the so-called "silent voice." Tomislav Nikolic's rich work career, as indicated here. He says, Mr. Nikolic began his rich work career in the construction company "Gegrap". I really don't know what company that is. Then, at the company "December 22nd", he was head of 12-year investment. Just so the citizens know, that firm is ruined today. Then for two years, he was the technical director of the Public-Community Company in Kragujevac. What Mr. Vukic also did not read so loudly, with pride, is the fact that Mr. Nikolic has been Deputy Prime Minister in the government of Mirko Marjanovic since 1998, and at the end of 1999, the vice-president of the federal government. At that time, pensioners were handing out electricity stamps instead of pensions. Then came the debt that began to be compensated later. We will not and cannot support Nikolic, because his party's policy has taken Serbia into isolation in time, into sanctions. He caused us to be bombed, at the very end of the line, caused a war in these areas, people died. This man must now, for some tactical reason, at least for a second, be brought to the speaker of the assembly – anyone who calls himself a Democrats must not even think about it, let alone raise his hand for Nikolic. Do we want to go back to the '90s? Should Serbia's highest legislative body be chaired by a man who is against Serbia's entry into the European Union? This assembly should vote pro-European laws, help people to have a better standard, not drill into their chests and talk about how strong we are in the world, and when they push us from all sides to run into the mouse holes. I don't want to talk much about radicals here. They have their voters, and I just don't know if they can be affected in a short time. However, I want to address here first and foremost the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia and to invite them not to vote for Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament's president, because my question is to you – did you participate in Friday's changes in vain? How can it be logical for you, as you said, Mr Aligrudic, that Mr Nikolic was elected president of the assembly, when the president of your party won the Milosevic coalition on October 5th, with the support of all democratic forces, and opposition and NGOs in the 2000 elections? Secondly, in 2000, did Kostunica go against the Radicals and Milosevic on the line to bring them back to power? It's something we can't figure out. I just don't believe that you understand that until the end of today. Secondly, the same question for New Serbia: did New Serbia's leader bring a buffer to Belgrade and bring Milosevic and the radicals here before this assembly to break down and beg the Radicals to let him pave the way for Serbia? It's too high a price. No one who, on behalf of his party, has a sign of "democratic" must allow himself to vote for Nikolic and take away the European perspective of Serbian citizens. I heard that at these consultations, it was said that the motive for selecting radicals was for the president of the Kosovo and Metohija Defence Assembly. It's supposed to be a motive that would possibly lead the Democratic Party of Serbia to vote for him. How to vote to be elected president of a man whose policy, along with Milosevic, essentially led to the fact that Kosovo minorities are lost and that Serbia has no fundamental sovereignty over Kosovo and that you have a foreign army in Kosovo? How long will we allow all Belgrade and internal Serbian topics to be resolved on the Kosovo issue? Who cares about the citizens of Kosovo and who only cares about the authorities? So, enough manipulation for the citizens of Kosovo. It has nothing to do with the constitution of Parliament's president today and the election of Tomislav Nikolic with the protection of interest in Kosovo. If a new parliamentary majority is not formed which means choosing a new government, then it is pointless to choose today the president of parliament, because if by Monday the government is not formed, the assembly is disbanded, elections are discussed, and I don't see what it is to choose the president and the assembly bodies. There's an election going on in that situation. I would like first of all to appeal to DSS and New Serbia MPs not to vote for Tomislav Nikolic, but I also want to appeal to the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia not to negotiate on the government here -- what concerns MPs here that the government talks are going on and I have no intention of talking about it here -- but to agree on this outside of this assembly and to come here to the Assembly to elect both the pro-European democratic prime minister and such a majority to do and to continue reforms. If that is not possible, say it clearly and loudly – it is not possible, and then let us see who thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u196	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you'll allow me, I'm going to read the letter first to an illiterate minister. Namely, Mr. Dinkic, you can't say it in Serbian – come out and yell; for I don't scream, I may scream. But that was supposed to teach you in elementary school a long time ago. Next, I can't say "silent voice," because it's pleonasm, Mr. Dinkic, and that was supposed to teach you in elementary school. There's something they should have taught you in preschool: don't put a sock on your head, don't steal, don't kidnap, don't rob Serbia. That's what you've been doing, and you won't be able to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u198	Mr. Dinkic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u199	Mr. Wolf, I couldn't wait to be no longer a minister, but a MP, so I could debate with you. You've had enough of your lies. The moment you want to tell the people the truth about whether you've ever earned anything by working outside the state, if you've gotten anything in your life without the state giving you, and you and Mr. Nikolic, then talk to me. What you made up with that sock, do you have anything better to invent? The fact is you barely whispered when you were talking about your candidate's alleged rich biography for president of the Parliament and president of the party. "Glassic" is deminutive.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr. Micunovic knows this, he is a man who knows Serbian well. It is "the voice" deminutive, Mr. Dinkic, but "the silent voice" is pleonasm. Well, you have no idea, man illiterate. I see, Mr. Dinkich, that you've poisoned him, insulated him. I was scared when you went out and started – I couldn't wait, I made a lot of... Like you're lifting weights or I don't know what. Mr. Dinkic, I don't have any problem with whether I spoke loudly or quietly, it's important what I said. What I was saying about Tomislav Nikolic, I honestly think, as I think, and I didn't want to talk, Mr. Dinkic, about what you did for this country. Don't forget, Mr. Dinkic, that in June 2006, the government established immunity for armed robbery when you broke in with a sock on your head. Mr. Dinkic, I don't have a problem with that either, I just have a problem with you giving us lessons that we're, like, all psychopaths and villains, and you're very good and nice. I'm going to remind you now of something that has to do with historical facts, which is important for citizens, on a serious issue, Kosovo and Metohija. You say it's your fault, too. You didn't say so at that rally on Clinton's birthday that you organised on August 19, 2000, when you told the people that Kosovo and Metohija, as a democratic issue, would be resolved as soon as possible and that this new democratic force with our friends would be easy to resolve. Now I will look back on your serious objection, but untrue and hypocritical, and that is what you say Tomislav Nikolic, who is against the European Union... No, but you who are against Serbia and against Kosovo and Metohija will live, not but you who will repeat, as the worst repeaters, a hundred times, will live the European Union, especially at the moment when Kosovo and Metohija are taken from us. And the more Solana and Rehn speak -- the more you need to accept the Ahtisaari plan, the more you need to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, the stronger and louder you will repeat -- that we are going to the European Union, kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, kidnap anything else, because Milosevic is guilty or I don't know who. That's not what you said. No one has the right to treat this country's territory in such a way. It is the question of Serbia's future, not the question of the future of the European Union. I love the Hungarians, and the Polish, and the Czechs, and the English and the French, but much more than they love Serbia and the Serbian citizens, so I'm interested in whether we should have our country or not. We don't have a spare country, Mr. Dinkic. We've got one. We did not flee from it even while you were in power, nor will we fear you in the future, be sure. We'll beat you as long as we're alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u201	Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u202	Let's make a deal like this, Mr. Wolf: I give up my parliamentary immunity, and you give it up. Let's go to court, you and I. Let's see who gets it. That's what we agreed. Enough to call me a thief, because you're a liar of an unseen species. Let's go to court. You all the things you've been putting against me, there's no immunity, you take off your immunity, so let's go. As for other things, what have you ever done in your life for Kosovo? Whenever you refer to your patriotism, Serbia is getting smaller. Have you ever helped that people there, to make them live and stay there? No, the louder you are, the more they move out. How many people have died because of your troublemaker policy? Now you have a chance, unfortunately, if because of the people that the citizens voted for for other reasons, and not to support you, you get a chance to get the President of the Assembly here, you become the authority, I want to know what you're going to do in particular for these people, because so far you've only manipulated them. What we have done: we have achieved that the money is stable, we have filled the budget, there is currently a billion and 100m euros in Serbia's budget and can now be invested throughout Serbia and Kosovo. But you're just telling empty stories. When I was a minister, you kept me quiet so I couldn't fit you from that position. I'm an MP now, and I'm not going to be immune, and I want to clear up with you all the things you lied about me for five to six years, and it's time for me to pay you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u203	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on the line to Mr Dinkic. He was the third time. It's only my third time now. You're not worried about what I'm about to say, are you? Don't worry. Let him go back to first class first, learn something about Serbian and spelling, and then he'll get better. Mr. Dink, you're nervous, you're yelling "a liar," or I don't know what He doesn't look like Lucky. [[The voices from the bench: Lucky's a little nervous.]] That Lucky guy had some honors. This guy ain't got nothing. You're saying something about lies. You, Mr. Dinkic, can't say for sure that you are the biggest, but one of the biggest robbers in Serbia's modern history, and there is no doubt about that. I will never appeal to immunity, because it is one of the greatest thieves in Serbia's history, but there is someone who isn't afraid of you, there is someone you are nothing to. (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. You wanted to ban the parties, you wanted anyone to know what to do, you would have killed us all. Come on, kill us, let's see what you do. Yeah, I'm telling you. You also robbed through the National Savings Bank, Euroaxis Bank, Vexim Bank, through everything else. The only thing you can do in your life is rob, and you can't do anything else. That's why, Mr. Dinkic, you'll have to answer for the black sock on your head, without the immunity the government established for you in June. (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. As far as I'm concerned, I can't wait for that trial to prove what kind of thief you are, Mr. Dinkic, with the greatest satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u205	Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u206	Mr. Wolfie, I haven't earned a penny in my life without working fair and square. I've never stolen anything, and I'm not a thief, but you are a murderer. You've killed so many people indirectly, I just don't know how you're supposed to even show up outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u207	Mr. Dinkic, no more replicas like this. Please, just a very short one.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am not leaving this booth until, Mr. Dinkic, you tell me who I killed. I hear it, by the way, every day from you liars and thieves, from all kinds of liars and thieves in this country. Come out and tell me who I killed. Who did I kill? You will say, "Thousands of people who have gone away in one way or another." Now you're gonna get to it. Is that what it is, Mr. Dinkich? You, Mr. Dinkic, have killed the entire Serbian people, killed Serbia since you came to power, killed each and every one of us, and you don't think anyone can tell you anything, so you're going to say anything, you're afraid of people, it's very powerful. You didn't steal it? The worst thief Serbia has ever had in modern history. They say you weigh 50m euros. He says he didn't steal anything. Let the dude say it. How much did he steal, how many million? You're gonna talk about murderers. Now get out, and I'm not suing you, Mr. Dinkic, for that, I'm asking you to say the name and name of the man I killed, who I wanted to kill, or knew or anything. Just say I wanted to kill my own mother, because I heard it somewhere, so try to think of something else. Mr. Dinkic, you see, Mr. Batic shouldn't answer, I'm just calling you, keep your promise, don't like the Ponoš and these, but sue me, Mr. Dinkic, sue me as soon as possible. (President: Mr. Wolf, let's continue the session. How can we continue the session when you see what he has said? (President: We heard....) You heard him. Now he needs to be answered. So, with that, as soon as possible, Mr. Dinkic, sue me, and I will very easily, without any trouble, with the help of Mr. Batic, with the help of Mr. Petrovic, many others, and Borka Vukic, she is the greatest expert on how much money you stole from Cyprus... And I'm not worried at all, I'm not worried, I know how it's gonna be without talking about those other banks and everything else. Mr. Dinkic, you didn't scare me at all, although I heard how scared you are, because in Serbia a new generation of people are born, people who prefer freedom than anything else, people you can threaten. I just took this as an invitation to the lynch, not just mine, but my children and my family. I, Mr. Dinkich, have nothing against anyone, I'm just warning you... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... that at all times I will answer you in a man's way, in the way that you need to be answered, that I will never be afraid of you, and you know, Mr Dinkic, that at some point for your crimes against this people, for all crime and for all thieving, you will have to pay your bills, and Serbia is shaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u209	Replica, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to deal with a controversy that's a bigger liar, a thief, a murderer. You'll settle that between yourselves. What I sometimes speak and explain on behalf of the DHSS, on behalf of the LDP Parliament Club, and my personal name, I submit evidence where I need to. But it is sad that today, in 2007, in Europe, when Serbia is in this position in which it is located, we have been listening for hours to such a pointless controversy. Madam Chairman, read the Rules of Procedure, cannot be irrevocably responded to by replicas, it can last all day long. Then we're the extras here who waste their time in vain. We're not at the cattle fair, we're in history. It's time to get serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u211	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if anyone is listening to this debate today, I think it's quite surprising why you didn't agree to form a government. Therefore, I think there are many more in Serbia today who are not ready to skip the tights, but those who watch what the interest of the state right now is. I would remind all of your parties who call themselves democratic – and they are democratic only because they are called so and so they gave a name, and the way in-party elections are such that they were all chosen by one candidate for party president – before the election you asked for, before the disbandment of the Assembly, which was not, but essentially that was the case, the G17 and the Democratic Party were looking for urgent elections. We've barely managed to make sure the elections weren't in December for New Year's or Christmas's, but to be at least in January. You told this people there would be a government of the democratic bloc. Where's that democratic block? I must say, I enjoy today's debate. It's been a long time since I've enjoyed it. This is finally the funeral of what used to be called DOS. Therefore, what the Socialist Party of Serbia was, as a party that said at the beginning of a consultation on the president of parliament, I think Serbia needs political stability. I don't know if you are aware of the weight of Serbia's citizens' relations with what political parties are doing today in Serbia. Does anyone think that any citizen in Serbia understand why no agreement can be reached between political parties on forming a government or establishing a parliament? Do you think a Serbian citizen today understands that from Kosovo and Metohija, Security Council Resolution is more important to divide the portfolio or whether we will go to new elections, into a new campaign, in order for any of the parties to receive more parliamentary mandates? You've been given the responsibility of this people, just like I, just like us socialists, to work in the interest of this country, in the interest of this people. If no one in Serbia can handle anyone, then I no longer see the purpose of the political action of this political elite. In Serbia, Berlin walls between political parties are likely to be torn down. In this same hall, Svetozar Marovic, at the time of Zoran Djindjic's government, was elected thanks to the voice of Branislav – Banet Ivkovic, a socialist who was well-bred. Mladjan Dinkic was elected, and Miroljub Labus, as Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister, with the SPS vote. Why today, Tomislav Nikolic, or someone else tomorrow, Vojislav Kostunica might not be elected by Tomislav Nikolic or someone else, Zarko Obradovic? What was happening in Serbia was seven years ago. If we're not ready to put an end to our past and our history, this country will never have a future. Therefore, the SPS will not vote for any candidate who does not have a parliamentary majority. We are not part of the parliamentary majority and we will not vote for candidate, but we will vote, since there is no majority, of course we will vote for the candidate of that party with the largest number of votes, which is the SRS. I would like to remind everyone here and call everyone, Serbia no longer has time to wait. What you gave as a steam – life cannot wait, it is true, but Serbia cannot wait for you to negotiate and speculate more, while in this country it is getting worse and harder. How do you think you are waiting for the Security Council resolution on Kosovo and Metohija without the Assembly without the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You mean with the disbanded assembly, without the Constitutional Court, without the government, with the negotiating team in which the negotiating team chief resigned, moved from Tadic to Kostunica's side? Do you think that's how Serbia defends Kosovo and Metohija, or do you think that's how Serbia goes into the EU? So Serbia will not go anywhere. Serbia needs to know whether you have the courage and courage to make a parliamentary majority here or not. If you don't, back off. That's why I call on the DSS, first of all the SRS, to show responsibility to the state, the people and their voters who chose them, to make the government of the SRS and the DSS and possibly the SPS, but we don't need them here, because they have a majority. I say eventually, because they have most of us without us. Of course, you know very well that the authorities don't have an SPS. I call, because if anyone in Serbia thinks that people will forgive us for not being able to form organs and tell the people why we are going to elections today... What are you going to tell the citizens of Serbia, why are we going to new elections? Why? Do you have any reason why you're going to the new election? Did you take the citizens to the elections in January? Did you interrupt the government of Vojislav Kostunica because of the new elections? Why? Or is it the goal of new elections to replace Rade Bulatovic or, on the other hand, Ponos? Is it Dragan Jocic or anyone else? We in the SPS are not interested in your negotiations, and don't blame yourself for not forming a government for others who didn't participate. You are unable to form a government, because you have no responsibility to this country and this people. That's why I call on those who want such responsibility either to make a government of national unity or to go to elections. Simply, Serbia really doesn't have time to wait anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u214	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak as president of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. In previous days, we had the opportunity to read in the newspaper a statement from the chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that she had consulted all parliamentary parties before the National Assembly session was scheduled. I must say that the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and the Parliamentary Group of Minorities has not consulted anyone on the date of maintenance and the way the session is scheduled, which we find inadmissible. Regardless of these circumstances, there was no question whether our MPs would attend today's session, for two reasons. First, we are convinced that it is the seat of MPs in the National Assembly and that politics should be conducted in parliament. Secondly, we can't be in this esteemed home of 47, 64 or 81, but we feel responsible for the voters and all the citizens of our country. As authentic representatives of national minorities in the National Assembly, we formed a joint parliamentary club the same day our mandates were verified. We have formulated our common goals, defined the principles of work; our parties have different visions of many things, but we have agreed in a few hours. I don't know how the democratic parties will explain to the citizens the fact that they couldn't agree on anything in three and a half months. How is it possible that the National Assembly has not passed a single law for more than half a year, although more than 70 legislative proposals have been in the process, from the last term of this esteemed home? How is it possible that the Republic of Serbia does not have its budget for the current year on 7 May? Moreover, some party officials have tried to collect and share responsibility for their own incompetence among all parties. People's MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, the list of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia and the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley cannot be responsible for the situation of the largest institutional crisis in the Republic of Serbia. We can't be responsible and guilty for two reasons. Since the beginning of this call, we have been constructive. We were present at all the consultations, whoever organized them. We didn't consider it an ideal solution, but we were ready to support the so-called choice. the interim president of the Assembly to disblock this assembly. We were also the only ones, along with the duchy group of ambassadors, who were ready to support the amendment and addition of the Law on the budgetary system at the end of March. The reason was responsibility to all the citizens of this country. Other parties from the democratic bloc obviously do not feel responsible, even for their own voters. I don't need to justify us and explain what we did. It is clear that without the completion of the assembly's constitution and the election of a new democratic government, there is no progress in this country. Informing the new government will damage all Serbian citizens. As for the position of national minorities, if it does not immediately access the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting, according to which media broadcasting their minority language programmes would be exempt from mandatory privatisation, and if very nearly the law on the selection and jurisdiction of national councils of national minorities, which has been pending for more than two years, it will have unspeakable consequences. We will continue to be constructive and, in the interest of all citizens, we hope, we still hope that Serbia will get a new democratic government by May 14th. We would like to support the candidate for the president of the National Assembly behind whom he stands, for the choice of sufficient consensus of the democratic bloc's parties. We don't consider any other solution good. We consider the agreement on the President of Parliament part of the agreement on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Due to months of devastating and irresponsible political trenches, we cannot imagine a different solution as satisfactory. Otherwise it must be determined – you have shared so much responsibility that you have become extremely irresponsible. We did not participate, nor do we want to participate in your irresponsibleness. Our MPs of the minority group will still vote today for the DS candidate for the only reason: the reason is that our parties formed by the national minority parliamentary club are considered part of the democratic option. That's the only reason. But I also have to say that you could have made a more serious candidate available to us. It is clear that the Democratic Party's proposal in this assembly will not pass now, and all parties that led in the previous weeks and months of talks on forming a new democratic government are responsible. The voters still remember what happened on election posters of parties from the democratic bloc and what has been achieved in the past three months. Let me remind you, on the posters of the Duke Hungarian Union, it said, "A new chance." Our MPs were given a new chance in January and it is a general assessment in our community that we have not failed voters, we have not acted irresponsiblely. The authentic MPs of the national minorities will certainly be able to get another chance at the next election, and there will certainly be more of us in the next session. I'm not sure about the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u215	Thank you. Here you go, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u216	I think it is perfectly natural for the parties of national minorities to support Ms Milena Milosevic as a candidate for the Democratic Party, as a candidate for European and modern Serbia. It's a good thing you changed your mind, because, as far as I know, at the beginning of today, you had a different position. Ms. Milena Milosevic, which is why I volunteered to replicate here, is a serious candidate. The Democratic Party has given as its candidate a person who is capable of doing the job of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a good way. If it were luck, and if what should be a democratic block and we could gather the right majority, you'd have the opportunity to see for yourself. This way, we'll see how things are and how this vote ends. So, once again, I urge the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia to change their decision and vote for Milena Milosevic, to vote for what we all managed to do together in September 2000 and 5 October 2000, and then you will be able to fully see how well Milena Milosevic is the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u217	Mrs. Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite all the desire to take this debate seriously, it is difficult to ignore everything that defines its character. As much as the proposed item of the agenda – the election of Parliament's president, before us as an imperative, sets the obligation to complete the process of establishing the most important institution of fragile Serbian democracy, we must have that political force that has so little support and which has rarely come to terms in Serbia's political life in the last four years. During a session of parliament to discuss candidates for Parliament's president, more than one, two, three, four political fates are being broken. This session began today, but the political processes that have had a crucial impact on its course have long since begun. It's not good when politicians say they're not responsible for something like that. We from the Liberal Democratic Party regret that we were unable to influence these processes to a greater extent, but we do not agree that this debate now comes down to a statement between the two candidates. This debate that we are currently in talks about the inability of those who won Serbia on October 5th to impose a new system of values, not just new political leaders within the old system of values, which, despite numerous pressures, has only partially changed. When we talk about parliament, I guess we have to ask a question – in which country there is a parliament if there is no democracy before. If we are talking about the existence of democracy, then we cannot go beyond the fact that our democracy is shadowed by March 12th and that today we are expected to ignore the murder of Zoran Djindjic, the first democratically elected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, or to view the event as an event that will win his epilogue in some court. We have nothing new to say about the Serbian Radical Party candidate for the President of the Republic of Parliament. What we can say is that it is a serious politician, but a politician who follows a political concept that, in our opinion, is a threat to the stability of our society and that threatens the future not us anymore, but the future of our children. If we are talking about the opponent, Mrs Milosevic, then we cannot also view her as an isolated person and ignore the fact that, despite all our wishes, despite every effort, we have had so little impact on correcting the party's policy, which was necessary and which we needed just to avoid today's session and atmosphere in which it flows. To believe in the existence of a democratic bloc was an illusion. It is expected that after an election campaign led by political opportunities in the country will develop in a different way, too. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that in public we have been more insistent on the Democratic Party's right to point out the Prime Minister, from the Democratic Party itself, in part for its political benefit. We all know that, because we're politicians. We do not see our own benefit in the damage that we will do to the Democratic Party; we see our benefit in mobilising the Democratic Party and the civil part of society, so that those jobs that are not completed on 5 October 2000 are now completed, but not by saying that someone is enjoying this session because he attends the funeral. There is no funeral of Serbian democracy. It will triumph, among other things, because this session is an opportunity to free ourselves from some illusions and remove the burden we carry reluctantly, each in our own way for years. That is why it is much more important now to talk about the political future of the country and the way we think it should be realized, and then, based on this defined future, see if we need this debate at all, as it is going at this moment. If we choose the President of Parliament, does this mean that we continue the process of institutionalising a political concept that will destroy this society and which is defeated by being set on fire by this very parliament. The policy burned on October 5th 2000, but not to return in 2007. The Democratic Party must answer us whether after the DSS vote for the policy we set on fire in this assembly in 2000, because otherwise it could not be mastered, for the Democratic Party, the subsequent change in DSS's relations towards common objectives is acceptable? It is important for us to know at this point, because we do not see a solution to the political problem in Serbia in maintaining existing political relations, but in defining the political duel that Serbia needs and which we have denied, as politicians. The citizens did not say on January 21st about the policy they had to declare. They voted in favour of "100 euros per hectare", voted in favour of "experience in front of politics", voted in favour of "living Serbia". But before that must be done that kind of separation in Serbia without which it is impossible to achieve those goals. Policy expertise -- yes, it is not a problem with that; "life that cannot wait", too, but if that expertise and that life, if the right in the court should be achieved through those who affirmed and brought back to life Milosevic's values, Milosevic's policy, Milosevic's contractors, then it is pointless. This session should serve, first of all, as an opportunity to send a message of encouragement to our society. What economic co-operation with the world, what internal reforms? Serbia first needs to decide whether it will live or disappear, and we need to be the ones to show that policy that will lead to a life that it has no right to today. It's not a "smuggling" policy, it's not a policy of culinary resolution and party agreements. It's not a policy that breaks into BIA. If the BIA is a problem and if the problem is a relationship with the ministries of force, then we actually have a diagnosis of the disease, and the disease is devastating. The disease requires amputation, amputation of the party and that policy that brought Serbia back to Milosevic's 1990s. That's the policy you're negotiating with, expecting you to be able to change it. Tell us here, at this session, whether today's debate in parliament is the end of this political adventure that you, I have no doubt, have entered with the best intentions, but from which you must come out with the strength that is needed first of all for you and then for everyone in this country, a clear political message and an answer. Kostunica cannot be the president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, even if he was previously elected candidate of the Democratic Party for Parliament, because as prime minister, he has a crucial influence on the country's policy, and this policy is directly opposed to the interests we are now talking about here. Where's the support we need? In society, among citizens, those who do not want isolation, those who are concerned about the future of their children, those who at this moment are afraid to listen to the words of the candidate for president of the assembly, who wants to increase the budget of the military. No way. If we are to choose between that president of the Assembly and the new elections -- new elections. Never again Serbian children to the front. The index, not the helmet and the gun. We've watched that policy for ten years, and that policy has led us to the state we're in today. We are ready to support the Democratic Party's candidate for Parliament's president, but we expect the DS to view the LDP and the citizens we represent differently. We're looking for more seriousness. We don't need her personally. We want to get an answer from the Democratic Party, and that's why we've been looking for talks, how we're going to strategically move towards that country's orientation, which is in grave danger with this session, in the end, but also with everything that's happened before. It is Serbia's European orientation. That's what we need to take care of. We set the conditions, but the rules of our working together on the election of the President of Parliament. We want the President of Parliament to activate the Lustration Commission, the President of Parliament, which will raise the issue of constitutional reform before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We want the President of Parliament who will allow us to discuss the financial control that is suffocating this country and the unfair ratio of capital and politics that makes private ownership of a few people from Serbia. The President of Parliament who is ready to insist on it will receive our support. The president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliament cannot count on that support, I'm sure he doesn't. The absence of this support is not an expression of disrespect for the SRS voters, but rather an expression of our concern for those people who tomorrow or in the time ahead will understand how dangerous it is to return Serbia to a political concept in which, among other things, today's candidate for parliament's president, behind whom the current parliamentary majority stands. The Serbian Radical Party has symbolized a policy that is the problem of this society, although in this country, the SRS has not appeared as the bearer of political events for seven years. At the first level, responsibility for the situation in Serbia is borne by us, and Mr Dinkic, and Mr Micunovic and I. We have seven years, each in our own way, power in this country, not radicals or socialists. Weaknesses that we then exhibit, and which we show in the meantime, compromise our right and take away an idea, from which society must not give up at this moment, which is the idea of essential modernisation, concrete reforms and a lasting separation with the policy that is being achieved on the fronts, rather than at universities, with a policy that relies on a pendrek, not a dialogue, with a policy that we set on fire right here in 2000. I'm proud of it. Don't give up on those ideas and don't let the ashes rise again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u218	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Chairman, I have a duty to say a few things, and the first is to ask you all together – what wonders who here? In 2003, we had opportunities to watch the government supported by the Socialist Party of Serbia, which clearly showed the character of the government. Are we really going to be so naive that we are now surprised that the same people who sought the support of the Socialists are now seeking the support of the SRS, as revenge for the Democratic Party, because it did not meet their demands. What are these demands, none of us know exactly, because such conversations are being held behind closed doors. However, it is quite clear, from everything said, that personal solutions are involved in what is called the Ministry of Forces quite lightly here. These personal solutions are not only a matter of persons performing these functions, but also of the effectiveness of the work of these services and these ministries over the past 3.5 - 4 years. This efficiency, i.e. The ineffectiveness of the work proved that Ratko Mladic was not arrested and that nothing was done by what was required of this country. All the dirty laundry I'm talking about here can clearly show everyone what the essence of the proposal is for Mr Tomislav Nikolic to be the president of this assembly. The point is, the DSS has broad coalition potential. I ask one question – how can this broad coalition potential be interpreted? Only in one way: support for Mr Nikolic as president of the National Assembly by the DSS-Serbia loses the chance of ever winning the democratic government in that constitution, even if the DS-DSS-G17 Plus government is made. That would mean then that there is a Democratic Party of Serbia, which is not a democratic party, which has shown by its actions... It is high time and most important for this country to clarify the question of concepts - a democratic party, because otherwise the full sense of gathering of democratic parties is lost, if someone who will be under democracy will be undermining their undemocratic goals. It's said here to put an end to the past. I fully agree there, it's time to put an end to the past, but she doesn't put herself in by deciding to put an end to the past. The point of the past is placed so that if someone stole something, he has to answer for it, to be tried, to go to prison and then to be an equal member of society. You can't go after that because someone didn't steal anything today and he says he's not a thief. There must be a penalty for what has been done and it cannot happen that all the evils that have been happening in our country go unpunished and that we move on. Then we immediately become accomplices to those who have done all this. However, I wanted to explain why our parliamentary club cannot vote for Tomislav Nikolic. I have a document ahead of me, on which on 3 December 2006, the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, in his will, intended to hold a hunger strike to the death, wrote an instruction to his party what it requires. I will remind myself to mention this: Dr Vojislav Seselj asks the members of the SRS to strongly oppose Serbia's entry into NATO and the European Union, because all traditional Serbian enemies are concentrated there, it said. Right? That's right. Then, to be persistent in Russian philosophy and to advocate Serbia's ever-involved integration with Russia and other eastern, Slovenian, Orthodox countries. Right? So, by ethnic and religious principles, not economic and democratic. Fourth, to lead a policy of genuine friendship with China, India and Arabic, African and Latin American states, which oppose American hegemony and domination. So, with anti-American, not pro-democratic states. Fifthly, never, I will remind you of your president's words, do not enter any coalition with Tadic, Kostunica and similar Serbian traitors. Don't, please, make it easy for your president to understand the moment a man writes his will. The will is usually written once in your life; of course, there are other cases, but this is the case I would underline – that you never accept the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. If, after all, Western countries have taken Kosovo and Metohija by force, to insist on automatically, for all time, underlining, suspending diplomatic relations with all states that recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Right? That's right. It has also been submitted to radicals to fight hard to free Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Right? In addition to the fact that the Serbian Radical Party programme states that the SRS is against any autonomy in Serbia's territory. Is that right? I read your program carefully and it says that there must be no autonomy between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the local authorities. Did you read your program? I read it. If that's all right, let's take a look at what this means, what I just read. This means that the choice of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, whom I greatly appreciate because of his consistency and because of his sharp language and brilliant mind, but I am absolutely the enemy of this type of thinking, for a simple reason – if these messages were accepted, which I have no doubt that the Serbian Radical Party would implement them with all means and in every place in the state administration and hierarchy, this would mean, above all, the clericalisation of the state, the bringing down of the entire state system on an ethnic basis, anti-globalism, in a way that would mean future isolation of the country and, ultimately, the war for liberation, under quotes, Kosovo, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, where again the Serbian Radical Party would be a voluntary donor of foreign blood. We have already seen this, and that is why the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the Parliamentary Club of Duchy MPs will vote for the Democratic Party candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that enough was mocked by representatives of some political parties. I didn't know that that's why you came to the National Assembly, I'm counting on you to prepare something and offer Serbian citizens something. I don't mind when Mr. Canak comes out and his famous flossules about the need to ban someone, enemies, miracles, all sorts of things, he's doing this magnificently. That, Mr. Canak, speaks of you and your democratic bloc. You would forbid, to put away, not to allow a different idea, and I understood, especially when these supporters of yours laughed, that they were for everything that you read, that is, that you are for us to especially love and love those who take away our territory, that we presently surrender Kosovo and Metohija, as well as everything else, to have autonomy wherever you think of it. But, Mr. Canak, in these difficult moments according to Vojislav Seselj, in which you and your government placed him with a fabricated indictment, he wrote something that he saw Oli Rehn behave and that Javier Solana, who, don't forget, was killing in Serbia, from little Milica Rakic to little Sanja in Varvarin. Those of yours smiled very nicely, they probably thought of these famous parts of the European Union, especially when they went from the most developed part of the EU, Germany, and bombed the bridge in Barvarin. It was a masterpiece. Right, Mr. Canak? What else do you need? A little more stick and carrot policy, a little more, so we can be donkeys. You accept the role of donkeys all you want, but we don't want to be donkeys, because we have our own country and we have our own people to worry about. And that is what Vojislav Seselj wrote to you, among other things, but you did not know how to spread. You laughed a lot, and you didn't want to hear what serious messages were. It is a serious message; if someone thinks that someone who kills their child should say – thank you for killing my child and now moving me from apartment 30 to apartment 40 squares, and I think that's exactly what's going on with Kosovo and Metohija, because it's not lost by Milosevic or Seselj or this one or that because they wrote Resolution 1244 against us. After that resolution they do not meet it, you are your great friends, and you will say – it is little Kosovo that you took from us, but, dear Cobel, take from us Raska, dear Cobel, take from us and Vojvodina, take from us what we do not know yet. Oh, he can't, Mr. Canak. Today you compared parliament with circus; I could compare some other, not parliaments, but executive bodies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to the zoo, but I didn't. That's exactly what we're different about. But that's what the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia see in general. The fact that you think with all your pride we're all together, like -- well, we're dying of laughter, or I don't know what we're all, we're very smart, now we're going to attack Tom Nikolic... Well, you do it every day. You've been doing nothing else for seven years. Why did you blame Tomislav Nikolic for seven years? You're in power. You have all the power of this all, and you have, why is it your fault now? He's guilty because he got the most votes in the election. Is that what you can't handle and you can't accept it? Is that your problem? Run for whoever you can. Then look to someone and praise them from your own, if you are able. I would say that you are entitled to whatever you want, but in such a way, through the laughs – how strong and strong we are, to comfort yourself, not to show the whole world how weak and smaller you are than the soft grain, do you think this harms Mr. Nikolic? No, I don't. I only went out to give you well-intentioned advice, to tell you – that's good for us. The more people see your anxiety, the more people see your problems, the more trust you have in the future president of the Assembly, if he is elected today, Tomislav Nikolic and all those who are against you every day grows. Don't think we're like someone else, that you can say whatever you want without anyone answering you. I don't know about some of the others you've learned to slap on how you get here, and anyway, that you're also running a stick and carrot policy with them; I remind you, we don't accept the role of a donkey, not a stick or a carrot, because the stick and carrots are for donkeys, and they're just like that... Not you, not by the misery that they treat you like donkeys when they talk to you, but that the whole country and the whole nation treat us like donkeys. It's time we weren't donkeys anymore, it's time to be people. That's the difference between our policies, which we want to be human, and you want us all to be donkeys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u221	Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u222	Mr. Wolfie, I hope you'll agree with me to say to me that I'm smaller than a macaw grain represents quite a free interpretation of my size, but I wanted to say something else. First of all, when you talk about Vojislav Seselj, we didn't send him to The Hague, but you sent him with trumpets. Secondly, as regards the surrender and sale of Kosovo, this was not done by Resolution 1244, but by the Kumanovski Agreement, which was signed as a military capitulation by Slobodan Milosevic, your patron, which made the act of high treason, for which the most severe punishment is foreseen in each country. The constitution, which you have written, is a constitution in which there is no longer any right to sign the capitulation and no right to make such an act of high treason. The constitution, which you have initiated along with the Democratic Party of Serbia, the spiritus movens, while at the same time dragging the Democratic Party into it, has been made so that you can hand over Kosovo, and now it is only a question of who will be responsible for it. You know how, I'm not ready to keep quiet about it and I'm not ready for Serbian citizens to know what's really going on. We will have, as far as I can see, a vote on which Mr Nikolic will be elected president of the Serbian Parliament. I'm very happy about it. I'm happy that it's high time things were cleared up in this country, to stop twisting into some kind of democratic landscape of those who aren't. The Democratic Party of Serbia will disappear because of this, for the simple reason I have seen someone from the Democratic Party of Serbia cross over to the Serbian Radical Party, but I have never seen anyone from the Serbian Radical Party cross over to the Democratic Party of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party is a road without a return.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u223	A half-hour break. [[After break – 18.10]] We're continuing the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudić, and immediately after him, Mr. Srdjan Shin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u225	Very briefly, since it was about this business discussion of ours at the beginning. I'll tell you next. In front of me is a fax representing Tanjug's news a few hours ago, whose title is this: "It is crucial that Tadic controls security services," Brussels, 7 May of this year, and it is said: "The High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy and Security Javier Solana said today in the European Parliament in Brussels that he spoke to Serbian President Boris Tadic a few hours ago and that he personally considers it to be a successful co-operation with The Hague tribunal," whatever the motive is, "the key is that Tadic controls Serbia's security services". So much that we have talked about before, about the hooligans, about the splinters, about pulling ears, whatever you want, in the morning part of the session. This proves what I have been saying – that obviously we have not, and not knowingly, negotiated with the Democratic Party about forming a government these few months and the last weeks, but that obviously someone in the Democratic Party, without knowledge and members of the Democratic Party, and under the conductor's stick of someone else, has negotiated with us for someone else's third name. That's what this is about. That's why we're "the fastest" with the negotiations and that's why negotiations with us are brutally interrupted Saturday night, and it's clear to everyone that someone outside this country doesn't want the Democratic Party of Serbia in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I've been trying to explain all day. There's so much to know what's being ordered from Brussels, who's listening to whom. And for the country's further success and serious democratic reform, the first thing that is necessary is that the one whose name this is addressed says it's not like that or to say -- whatever someone tells me, I won't listen to anyone's dictatorships. When someone answers like that, then I can take back everything I've said and any insinuation I've said here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u226	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted all MPs. The word has an MP named Srdjan Shain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u227	Dear MPs, first thing I have to say, since I listened to Mr Aligrudic, I must mention that I do not have Boris Tadic and Vojislav Seselj's phone number, although I was attacked in the campaign to belong to the Serbian Radical Party's bloc. If I had phone numbers both, I'd tell them what I've been listening to for the past few months from the citizens of Serbia. I can tell you that what's going on in Parliament is a joke. It is not right to speak in the Serbian Parliament this way and therefore the position of the Roma Party not to vote for either proposal, because the proposals and some majority around the future president of the Assembly are not the result of our programme agreement, nor is it the result of the compromise, the result of the clear programme perspective of Serbia, but is the result of the politics and demonstration of force – who is stronger in Serbia's political scene, not thinking that Serbia is in serious problems, that citizens are hard to live in Serbia, and the most difficult lives the national Roma community in this country. I really respect that in the Serbian government, which was part of the SRS, Mr Damjanovic was a minister; that the democratic bloc voted to bring in the Roma integration strategy and that the democratic bloc was talking about positive things, how Roma should integrate, however, the situation has not changed significantly. In order for us to vote in this single vote, which will not make an important decision regarding the current power relationship in parliament, in relation to the current events, we will give that vote, as a symbolic confirmation, to every government in Serbia if it really wants to think about socially endangered categories; about Roma as the most socially vulnerable category in this context and that most of them want to take care of Serbia's children. Our programme was very clear: whoever creates the majority to vote for the anti-discrimination law in Serbia, to be concrete and to adopt in the Assembly a declaration of child care, to implement what the government has adopted – a strategy on permanent childcare; to vote for the adoption of a declaration on Roma integration in Serbia, will get the vote today, as a symbolic support for such a programme, and will certainly get more votes in the next elections, because Serbia will recognise the political laurdiity in the Assembly, and in the next elections it will recognise another future. So I ask all political parties, and those who have received many votes, to turn to the programmes and forget the talks on who will be the minister, the secretary, the Undersecretary. You can see how we did – on all the negotiations we had we talked only about programs, there's no paper on which it says we talked about something else. We insisted on the implementation of our programme that we represented during the campaign. The defeating fact is also that in this House, representatives of minorities, including myself, as representatives of the Roma Party, have not been invited to consult on holding a session of the assembly. I don't agree with Mr Dinkic that he doesn't care about this parliament and MP issue of the government. Then why are we here? Are we here to do what the Constitution has denied, which is that political parties are directly taking over power in Serbia or we are here for MPs to take over power in Serbia. I may have understood it differently, but that's how I understood the part of the exposure. So I ask all MPs in parliament, no matter what political party they belong to, no matter who they get the directives from, whether they are voters or someone else, that we all call ourselves to one important thing - to be responsible for Serbian citizens, because only responsible MPs can bring a better future to Serbia. So much, thank you for listening to me. I hope that in the future the Serbian parliament will not look like a circus; I usually joke like this – I fought for the Roma to leave the circus, however, it seems that I have fallen into the biggest circus possible. Let's not make a circus more than Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u228	Mr Aligrudic read here the position the EU took on one of its forums. There are two things that I think are very important. They repeat the first one, which is most important, although there have been some issues here that we are talking about, but here's what we do, we have to say that there have been talks and consultations, negotiations, whatever you want, about this part of the executive government called the security sector. Repeated as the first thing: The Democratic Party has made a clear proposal regarding the largest intelligence and counterintelligence institutions in this country, and it is called BIA, the former state security, to lead the institution as a man proposed by the DSS, Vojislav Kostunica, if he is Prime Minister. Incomparable is the full content of activity, activity, size of this institution, with some other institutions, military, intelligence, counterintelligence services, services that exist at the MUP. So, not a word, not a letter has anything to say about the DS wanting, asking and demanding that there be a monopoly in the security system. We want one very clear thing, and that's that, for the first time since the 1990s, in this country, it's been broken, abolished, however, by a monopoly in the security system. You know, there were also those who were with Slobodan Milosevic, in such or similar structures of government; there was a major change in 2002, now the situation was perceived in one way. So our proposal is clear, and that's control in the security sector. To maintain the position of the current Director of Police, the DS to come to the position of the MUP, to have the Ministry of Defence in charge and to receive this duty by someone from the DSS, to retain the professional people in the military, the General Staff, the military services dealing with these issues, and once again to the DSS, to determine who should take responsibility for the BIA director. So, the monopoly of any single moment was not an idea that the DS had, but we think that for a good way of organising the state government and protecting it, and that is one of the most important things to protect citizens' interests, to prevent abuse, there is necessarily serious control of coalition partners, mutual control of coalition partners in the future government. That's why we made this proposal. As for the attitude put forward today by the European Union, or by the High Representative of the European Union, however anyone wants to interpret it, it is not disputed... (President: Time. It's very important, Mrs. Borka, I want to explain this, it's an important thing for everyone who sits here and for the citizens first. So it is clear that Serbia has a major problem in the EU accession process. For a year and slightly more, all processes of Serbia's integration into the EU have been interrupted. I realized that it is indisputable that this country should go to the EU, at least in these talks that we had about forming a government. It is not possible to remove this interference and to continue EU accession negotiations until they are resolved, among other things and unfortunately, the problems the country has with meeting its international obligations. I am not appalled by the EU's view, however, this view has no impact on what the DS policy is, nor does it have an impact on the course of these negotiations. So, there's no way anyone's blackmailing DS or doing any dictatorship towards DS. But we want to form a government that will be able to implement Serbia's integration policy into the European Union. This is why it is very important to have good communication with all those who represent the European Union: and with Parliament, in which many of us have gone, and with the EU Commission, and with people representing the EU in matters of security and foreign affairs. Since Mr Aligrudic asked someone who represents DS here to comment on what I read, I think it is very important that we clarify all the details because they affect the lives of every citizen of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u229	According to the Rules of Procedure, Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u230	I didn't understand anything from this comment. Please, since most of you from DS were not in the room, let me quote you again; therefore, it is very simple here, Tanjug's news – it is crucial that Tadic controls security services. That's what it says. To stay out of the way, it says this -- that a few hours ago, a phone was heard with Serbian President Boris Tadic Javier Solana and said at the time that he personally believed that it was crucial for successful co-operation with The Hague tribunal that Tadic was controlling security services in Serbia. It is a kind of advice in the course of the deal, possibly, on the government, what Javier Solana or someone in front of the EU thinks should be the composition or composition of the government, the executive government in Serbia. Is that it or isn't it? Yes, it is. Whether you will listen or not, I sincerely look forward to your words when you say that you do not think of anyone's dictatorship listening. It's okay, it's the right attitude, but I'm afraid what we've concluded from the behavior of the previous days doesn't sound exactly like that. That's what this is about. When you read this letter and combine it with what we've already brought here... You said for a moment that you accepted that someone from the DS would be at the head of state security and that this would be resolved, and control would seem otherwise. Anyway, whatever you said, you don't even know what you said, because whatever you said, what the Democratic Party of Serbia got from you as an ultimate, final proposal, with the message "take it or leave it", essentially and unrelated to the security sector, which is drastically different from what was agreed on on Saturday; I've been asking you all day whether it's true or not, you're saying other things and fairy tales. That's the essence of the story. Someone did not want the Democratic Party of Serbia to be involved in further negotiations at all, and this was explicitly made known to us by Boris Tadic on Sunday, calling us criminals in a special way in that statement. That's what's standing there, gentlemen. I cannot tell the citizens of Serbia what you want, that the Democratic Party of Serbia was not attached to the agreement on forming a government, and we are in a hurry from that agreement. That's the essence of the story. I'm saying and I'm afraid we're on the verge of a deal because someone tells you to do it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u231	Replica, Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u232	I will no longer argue with Mr. Aligrudic about this issue, because I really cannot influence the course of your conclusion, Mr. Aligrudic, you can draw different conclusions from the premise. Unfortunately, all the conclusions you've made here, and if you've carried them out, are wrong, but I leave it, anyway, to the MPs and anyone who watches here. I made it perfectly clear that DS is in the security system for each other. It is neither the time nor the place to burden the citizens and MPs here with other elements and details of what we have negotiated, but it is clear that no one has been targeted or anything incorrect in the negotiation process has been done. We have principles that we firmly believe in, and if these principles are met, the DS can be part of the executive government, and above all, if this country has a stable path towards the EU. Otherwise, let me just say that in this paper, which was read here several times, it says that Mr Solana also spoke with Prime Minister Kostunica after talks with President Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u233	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u234	I'll agree to one thing with you, that it may not be good for me to impose my conclusions, so this time I'll only limit myself to reading. So Tanjug says: Solana – it is crucial that Tadic controls security services, Brussels, 7 May (Tanjug). "The EU's High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security, Javier Solana, said today in the European Parliament in Brussels that he spoke with Serbian President Boris Tadic several hours ago and that he personally considers it crucial for successful co-operation with The Hague tribunal to control Serbia's security services." It is further said, and they quote Solana: "I spoke to Tadic a few hours ago. The situation is not good, because there is no progress in negotiations on the new government because personal relations," now listen to this, "between Tadic and Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica are not very good," Solana said, adding that after talks in the European Union Parliament, he will also talk to the Serbian prime minister. So, he announced that he would like to, just to correct you a little bit. "Tadic is defined for co-operation with The Hague tribunal" etc., etc. So the point of the whole story is this: whenever, as president of the parliamentary group, I was asked to receive someone from foreign diplomats, people who are in the embassies of other states, and I never refused to talk to them, whenever we got to the issues of forming a government, I refused to talk to them about it. It's just something that we can't talk to foreign representatives about, while the government is forming and as long as the negotiations last, we can talk. That's what this is about. I'm sorry, I'm not going back to my impressions, but let everyone, based on what I read, draw their own conclusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u235	Thank you. In order, Mr. Canak. He's not there. Next up is Pastor Ballint. He's not there either. The word has Dr. Zarko Obradovic, and let Mr. Batic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u236	Dear Mrs Vucic, fellow MPs, until the beginning of this debate today, I, and certainly all other SPS MPs, as well as a huge number of people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, believed that negotiations on the formation of the Republic of Serbia were being conducted for Serbia's sake, employment, improvement of living standards, all that Serbia needs and what is not. I thought, frankly, when it comes to security services that the key is how to improve the work of the Security Service in the fight against terrorism, crime, spies, how to better protect the state. Now I see, listening to a Mr. Democratic Party representative, that it is essential to be a candidate for the Democratic Party. On that side, we heard it, and it is good for Serbia to hear, because those who do not know after these words will be clearer, for example, why we decided in 2004 to leave the political scene of Serbia and therefore we supported this three-way government, because it is not the essence of whether a man was educated, whether he was working in security services, whether he had his own qualities that recommended him for a job, but rather the essence of being in the Democratic Party, and for the sake of the interests of the Democratic Party. It's good for Serbia to hear today. That's what Mr. Petrovic said here, black on white. As far as our Socialists are concerned, we have asked Mrs. Vukic to schedule for today a constitutional session, believing that it is good for Serbia today to see if there are any parliamentary majority to form a government or if the assembly majority for forming a government does not have one, whether we can take a step to get the Assembly completely rounded up, to establish, to elect a president. We said publicly a few days ago, when this session was scheduled, that it is logical, if there is no majority to form a government, to elect the president of the assembly from that party that has the largest number of voters and the largest number of representatives. We said it belonged to the Serbian Radical Party, and their right to whom they would propose. We will support this proposal, and so will Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I think Serbia needs that. I think Serbia is tired of these four months of bickering, three-month negotiations that are not, imposing the public of those scrawny expressions of people who, in passing, inform Serbia that, behold, they have not agreed, that they are terribly concerned that Serbia's governments do not have, and in fact, essentially do not care at all. It was seen that those for Serbia, or Serbia, were not important to them at all. I understand the disappointment of some of them. Thanks to the media, they have become big, and now, after these events, this is one at the beginning, because regardless of whether the president of the assembly was six days or longer, the fact is that this is a big step for Serbia and that some will finally have to realize that they have no media for themselves and that they can't do what they want and that they can't be covered for their ineffectiveness. It is good to also elect the vice-presidents of the Assembly today and simply take this big step, Serbia is working. I said, and I repeat, I think this is good for the Serbian Parliament, it's good for democracy, some will probably understand that Serbia has strength and abilities, the Assembly of Forces, that at least temporarily bury the war axes and simply do something good. I think that today's debate for Serbia is good, because it has eventually demosted individual parties and individuals who liked to call themselves, in these years before, Democrats by definition and qualify as democratic parties. I think it's a good idea to finally expose this false system of values that was established in 2000, October 5th. Some people will have to understand that October 5th was 2000 and that today was May 2007. It is truly degutant, immoral, ashamed to mention the dead President Milosevic, taking him into his mouth in a way inappropriate to both this man and this assembly. Those who had the courage told him what they wanted and dared to live, and now that he's dead, they should leave a man where he is and not touch him, and especially those claims are absolutely not true. This debate today has simply shown that some should learn our modern history. We heard various issues raised in order to disqualify the candidate of the Serbian Radical Party. Unfortunately, I heard from Mr Dinkic, even writing down, he says – politics, and thoughts of Tomislav Nikolic, has caused us to be bombed. For God's sake, Mr. Dinkich, what world do you live in and what time? In what time do you live, when those actors of aggression on our country publicly admitted that they bombed us that Milosevic would not be the president of Serbia and that they would take Kosovo away from us. That's what Montgomery said on TV four or five weeks ago. What does politics have to do with it in 1999? What we heard today is very interesting, because it shows a fundamental deficit, if you will, and political culture among some fellow MPs, because we are from the representatives of so-called. calm, civil, democratic, patriarchal, toleranceal, or as they like to call themselves – peaceful democratic Serbia heard words that they absolutely accused all others of using as hate speech a few years ago. Today we heard from Mr. Jovanovic that he, with his friends, set the assembly on fire. That's why he asked the DA to do his part of the job. We heard the expressions; I do not love them; I hate them. We heard the expressions of the people being killed. Does that tell you anything? One dictionary is used when you're in power, and the other dictionary is clearly used when there's a fear that there won't be power, so who knows what can happen. I am talking about these double criteria that are absolutely used and which Serbia does not need. Since today in the assembly debate there have been words about a formal candidate, as well as some other topics, let me say a few more words. It is a false dilemma that someone in this hall is for the European Union and someone against; that some are willing to respect human rights or international agreements without others being; that they are one for fighting crime and corruption, and others are not; that some are for Serbia's economic development and others are not. The essence of this whole story, it is good for Serbia to see it today, is whether Serbia itself, the Assembly, MPs, those who have received the trust of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have received the votes of citizens, whether they will choose their own representatives, whether Rehn, Solana or someone else will call on the phone and say it has to be him and that, or unfortunately, it must not be him and that one. This is what separates Serbia from other citizens or individual parties in this assembly compared to other parties. Here's the point of whether we're going to decide ourselves about candidates, about those who need to be in the Assembly, about those who should represent the Assembly. These days, there's a lot of talk about how it's all "for our own good." For our sakes they want to take away Kosovo and Metohija, for our sake the government can be such and that, for our sake, can be the minister and that, for our sake, can be that and that. That "for our sake" is more over our heads, because time is passing, they are achieving their goals, and Serbia is not taking any steps forward. Two more things. Definitely today's debate on candidates for National Assembly presidents dominated politics, and that's high. It is good that no one has said a negative word about candidates, which shows that absolutely both candidates have their advantages, and the Assembly will vote and define itself for one of them. Finally, I would also like to thank Mrs. Borki Vukic, on behalf of the SPS, as Mr. Dacic did, because if we bring this session to an end, this will end, but it must be acknowledged that this presidency was silent, unobtrusive, that it did not upset Serbia, that Mrs. Vukic represented the Assembly in the way that this is appropriate for the Assembly and Serbia. We socialists are, in any case, grateful for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u237	The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u238	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what's going on today is very much a reminder of the time machine and that show, "It happened today," because on this day 15 years ago, Vojislav Kostunica promoted the wings of "each bird to its flock flies." He knows it well, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here, finally he flew into his flock. Finally, the flock is complete, and in that flock of political parties: war criminals, the anti-Hax lobby, tycoons, the Zemun clan, the sheep-cablar mafia, silicone singers, a fair for the Serbian New Year ahead of this assembly. That's what we have today. It is the system of values that brings Serbia back. What are the balance sheets of this policy? Where is Serbia today when Europe and European integration are at stake? Last place. Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, are all ahead of us. So we're convincing in the last place. Today, war criminals are still heroes. We've got the formation of para-military formations again, we've got the crime that we're even exporting. The biggest robbery in Dubai was committed by our countrymen. These are the balances of this and this kind of government that goes to a new stage today. It is unfortunate that some of our parliamentarians destroyed the regime of Slobodan Milosevic and the SRS in front of this building on October 5, 2000, and are now making a new coalition with them. It's an unprincipled coalition. It's not a problem for them, it's a problem for Serbia and its citizens and our future. One more thing. Some people here have tried to tell who's responsible. Mr Dinkic explored where Tomislav Nikolic was running for president, how Borka Vukic presided over parliament. Mr. Dinkic, you have destroyed the government of Zoran Djindjic. Your wing was "Laki's a little nervous." You did not take in the mouth of Slobodan Milosevic or Vojislav Seselj or anyone. At the time the SRS had 5% MPs, I think 23. With your authority today, there are over 80 of them. You took other people's ideas, other people's MPs, you destroyed the government of Zoran Djindjic. This is a well-intentioned reminder to our friends from the Democratic Party: for three years you have tattooed Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS, believed, hoped, hoped, waited, were tolerant, that it would be the future democratic power. I remind you, and I warn you, whoever plantes pumpkins with the devil, their heads are pounding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u239	Mr. Zoran Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u240	I have to correct one of the lies that was told here, which is that 15 years ago today, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica said "every bird is flying." He did say that 15 years ago, but July 26th, when the party was founded. That's what you, Mr. Batic, should know. I always belong to a flock of democratic changes. You better wonder which flock you belong to today. That's the real question and first of all ask yourself. I don't know where you got the courage and where you got that moral basis to set up with Vojislav Kostunica or those of us who stayed in the Democratic Party of Serbia. So we know where we are. Here's a replacement that says we're going to vote politics, that today we're going to declare one policy or another, it's not going to go away. You just laugh, we're voting for a very simple, unequivocal and democratic principle today, and that's that when the deal is gone and just because the deal is gone, we're going to vote on the president of the assembly that belongs to the largest parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u241	Mr. Batic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u242	I was one of the founders of the DSS. Then I was convinced that it was, and at that time, an opposition, truly democratic, anti-communist, anti-Milasevic, anti-radical party. Today, Mr. Nikolic, she is no longer. Just one more detail. What is the cause of this dispute? Because the DSS, or Vojislav Kostunica, wants a monopoly on the security service. It is now clear why so many hours spent in our attempts, then DOS leaders, and demands to replace Rade Bulatovic. Now it's clear why many mysterious murders have not been discovered, why many war crimes have not been discovered, why what happened in the barracks on Topcider has not been discovered. It's all clear now. It is now clear why these ministries are the only ones in the world here called the ministries of power – because the obvious goal is for UDBA or BIA, however, to continue to rule Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u243	Mr. Radovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u244	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I could not imagine in my darkest dreams that the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where I will be an MP, would go like this. Allow me, first of all, to apologize to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia for what we are giving them today, in the name of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodina MPs. When I came to today's session, I went through my head with what Mr. Vojislav Kostunica said on 6 October 2000. His dreams were for Serbia to be a boring state. I thank him, because I was worried that it would really be, but while he's at the top and the power... He was an MP from Vojvodina, so he said once in this home, and I have to say it again – nothing has changed, he's still here. I am appalled that the citizens of my country today could hear Serbia preparing for a new crusade. We've established Christian police, we're going to increase the military budget, we're going to divide into patriots and traitors, and we're going to start dealing with the whole world. Ten days ago, looking at the European Union parliament, in my naiveness, I wanted the Republic of Serbia to gain its right as soon as possible and have its representatives in the home. But today your dreams are scattered. So far, I've been one of those guys who told young people to stay here, but in the future, I don't believe I'm going to convince them. I am obliged to tell you that this all began: on October 5th 1988, the famous yogurt revolution was abolished by the autonomy of Vojvodina. In this way, Serbia and our entire society were launched, with their autonomy being taken away from our Vojvodina. You heard from Mr. Canka's mouth why the duchy MPs will not vote for the proposal to be Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. I'd like to tell my fellow citizens and people who live in the north of Backa, which is... (The emissary speaks Hungarian. ( ) Sandwich, and when we were much stronger, we prepared, I am convinced that we will not have to eat them now, and I feel great progress, for part of this congregation has learned that ties are still put on over the shirt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u245	Thank you, too. The word is Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u246	I usually started my address from this pay phone with "Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen... ", given that we were mostly discussing laws and that the public through the media was in a position to monitor these discussions. I thought the assembly speaker was no place for public address, but this time I'll start differently, because I want to talk to Serbia. Dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, my name is Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. I'm a psychologist from Leskovec. I'm here to tell you a few things. First of all, G17 plus, of course, will not support Mr Tomislav Nikolic's election as president of the assembly, as it will not support any idea that Serbia is leading far, far into the past. Secondly, I want to call on Serbia to express a clear view of the possibility of going back not only 10 or 15 years, but much more, and a few centuries back. Democratic, pro-European Serbia has a very clear view of the issue. During today, I was called by many people from Serbia and commented on what is happening today. Their request is clear. They voted for democratic, pro-European Serbia because they want to move forward. That's what we all, dear colleagues and colleagues owe them. They gave their voice to it. They don't want to hear the debates about who gave what to whom, who took it from whom. They don't want to hear any more conspiracy theories they've been listening to in the 1990s. We've had enough of those stories. Why today's parties that are arguing over the resources they should have in the future government are not discussing who will have a science or education portfolio. These are the issues most important to Serbia in the 21st century. Do we, ladies and gentlemen live in some Orwellian Serbia where we should discuss who has a primate in security services? Is there anything going on with Serbia that its citizens are not informed about? These are the questions Serbia is asking itself today, which we must give a clear answer to today. In the past few years, we've all been saying that we're looking into the future, and we didn't want to talk much about the past. Whenever we touch that topic we've all talked about -- well, that's behind us, we won't talk about it any further, let's see how we move forward, how we make some step into the future, we won't go back in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the future we should go back a little bit, because citizens of Serbia, like all people in the world, have one protective mechanism, which is the possibility of forgetting bad, ugly and traumatic things. Today I want to return them to it and speak for my generation and for my personal name, I want to give you a few examples. Ladies and gentlemen, in the late 1980s and 1990s, I was successful, and with quite a success, I finished my studies, formed a family and began my professional career. Of course, like all young people of that age, I had a vision of what the future awaits us. We believed that we could move forward in our careers, that we would professionally perfect ourselves, that we would travel the world, that we would open up to our children perspectives that would bring them one step ahead of us. Then what happened? Our visions, our dreams and our future began to collapse like a map tower. Instead of all these visions and all these dreams, we started competing with each other in one single discipline, and that's survival skills. What did we start learning? We started learning how to keep it under a blanket or keep it in your jacket and gloves. Or, for example, how to make a cake out of one egg; how to get a sack of flour for 50 marks if your salary is five marks; after all, how to mix out of that flour that your family will eat. How to explain to your parents, who worked 35 years and gave you a full pension to get them bread that day, that they unfortunately do not have enough for one bread. These are the skills we learned in the 1990s, some a little more and some less successful. My neighbor, a career economist, even learned to make ashes to wash the diapers of her only-born child because the detergent was gone. A lot of people can learn, really. However, during all this time, while we were learning all this, we believed that there were some responsible people who would be involved in politics and who needed to organize the state so that it still serves us and that at some point it would somehow change. We thought it was our obligation to continue learning, to make progress, and there would come a time when we could come to terms and show it all. Unfortunately, I have to admit, we were wrong, because all of this led to our being exposed to bombings in 1999. I don't want to lead the controversy about who's guilty and who's not responsible for this bombing, but the citizens of a country are always responsible for their authority for what's happening to them. If the idea of the bombing was the departure of Mr. Milosevic, then is there any politician among you who will say "no, it's more important for me to be president than for my entire country to be bombed". The moment we realized that the future of our children was not only threatened, but that they were literally physically threatened and their lives, Serbia rose to its feet and Serbia changed that power that led such a policy. Do you think Serbia really wants to go back to this policy today? I am convinced that she will in all ways prove that it is totally unacceptable for her. Where are we, ladies and gentlemen, today? I get the impression that we're in some time machine or that, by chance, I've become a statist in some horror movie. I really cannot believe, as most Serbian citizens do, what is happening today in this House. Who has made progress all this time in Serbia? Unskilled, semi-criminal individuals have progressed and today they want to rule Serbia. It's something we have to prevent, it's something that we have to say today and here -- no. How do you live in Serbia today? It's bad living in Serbia today. Many more people live very badly. Ladies and gentlemen, we've begun to build our own house. We have a foundation, we have a stable budget, we have foreign exchange reserves, in health care they don't step back, like it was in the 1990s, and they don't wash those sterile gloves, but there are modern appliances. Doctors can do their job again. The middle layer is shrinking in Serbia. Do we want to put an end to all this? Do we want to give power to those who will spend everything we have built over these years lightly in the way they did in the 1990s? Do we really want Serbia to be a completely isolated country again in five, six or ten years without any perspective? This is the last warning for Serbia. What is happening these days is the last warning for Serbia, and that must not happen. I am convinced that Serbia will give a clear answer to all this. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, what do we want tomorrow? Do we want our daughters to compete in knowledge, in skills, in abilities with other citizens of the world, or do we want to give them back to the skills that their great-grandmothers have nurtured many centuries ago? Do we want our sons to compete in information skills and sports fields with the world or do we want them to hang rifles on their shoulders and to - like those unfortunates the other day in Kruševec who not only missed the century, but missed the historical period - gather and move into some new battles, from which they may not even return? G17 plus doesn't have a dilemma in front of this. Serbia must move forward, Serbia must go to Europe, Serbia must move towards economic progress, Serbia must become a modern state. All the other debates at this point are completely irrelevant. I call on you to turn to the future again, at this moment which, I believe, is truly historic for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u247	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I have long put up with not answering because I am advised not to say so, but after such insults that the lady has made to the expense of people who are willing to help defend their country, the defence of the constitutional order that obliges us that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia... My lords, if you had followed what was happening in Kruševec, if you were well-intentioned, you would know that these people are willing to make themselves available to the military, police and gendarmes in the event of Kosovo's declaration of independence in order to save young people from 18 to 25 years of age. The most important thing to her is how she's gonna make a pie out of an egg. Some people don't know how to make a pie out of a hundred eggs. So, ma'am, you know, when you're talking to people who are willing to lay down their lives for this country, you have to address with all due respect. You're here today in your political struggles, first of all between some parties so-called. democratic options, mentioned hundreds of times thousands of deaths, you mentioned the victims a hundred times. I must tell you one thing: neither of us who fought from 1990 to 1999 fought for Slobodan Milosevic nor for a radical party, but only for the Serb people. Please, when you mention thousands of deaths, know that there are other mothers behind them whose dignity you insult and insult their sacrifice. In all democratic countries of the world, such people stand on a pedestal, always their representatives stand by the presidents of the states. Only in Serbia is their victim denied, their only victim in Serbia washes their mouths and is used for petty political struggles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u249	Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u250	Dear MPs, respected Mrs Vukic, today's debate shows that Serbia has not yet resolved its basic dilemma, that Serbia has not reached consensus, what many of our neighbouring countries have done, that it has not solved which way it will go. It still doesn't know whether it will become Russian Governor, whether it will be a poor country, whether it will be a police state, or whether it will go through development, create a legal state, go through Europe and allow its citizens to live decently. This fundamental dilemma has not been resolved by Serbia, and for the thousandth time it is seen today. It was most seen when Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed. He was killed because it was then that it was clearly expressed what is the way Serbia should go and which way it should go. From what we've heard so far, it's clear that we're stepping away from all our neighbours by saying that Serbia and now it can also be the territory of another country, and big Russia, and it doesn't matter how citizens live and which way Serbia will go. I would now look back on how this situation has come to an end again which we thought was resolved after October 5th, that Serbia has found its way and has gone vigorously to make certain reforms and to build up a normal and decent society. After the January 21st election this year, something really didn't come close to your senses happened. It is now said, what we hear from the Democratic Party of Serbia, that it is stuck around the BIA, about traffic, about those who build roads... So that's stuck. Gentlemen, I have to tell you, it's not stuck here. The first day, when the Democratic Party of Serbia felt that Vojislav Kostunica must be prime minister and did not allow a regular shift of power. This measures who are the democratic party and who is not; whoever recognises the results of the election and calmly comes down from power, it is a democratic party. It's not just about counting votes, it's about respecting the election results. I agree, gentlemen, that you have received the highest number of votes. But with this fact that the Democratic Party of Serbia did not accept that there was a choice, that the Democratic Party had received more votes, and that it would not accept that the prime minister would give DS, then you could seek and have harakiri done here by the Democratic Party, because nothing is enough for you. You have right here shown that Serbia has no democracy and no more boast about having it, because you do not want to get out of power. That's what you've done, and that's why we've just come to this situation. Now that's where the gentleman assures us if Solana said this or that. It doesn't matter. Gentlemen, in 2003, no one slowed you down to have all the services with 53 mandates, to rule Serbia and to share power. You were the first to think that there was one party and one single prime minister, who tied himself to power and did not want to come down from power. That's exactly why there's been a situation like this. You boasted that your party had coalition capacity. What does that mean? To work on both electricity and batteries and be able to be a bit of a democratic party, a little recognition of elections, a little bit of not recognising elections, you can go to Europe, maybe you can go to Europe. I say that this is the main problem of your party, what Nenad Canak said – everything the gentlemen of the radicals said, can any of you today state one item without you agreeing at all. That's what you've just shown, you're supporting that after seven years of October 5th, Serbia should vote radically for the president of the assembly. That's the result of you not accepting the democratic rules of the game. Now I'd like to say... And, of course, I would like to address the Democratic Party, because I believe that the Democratic Party bears great responsibility for what we are talking about today. Here's what: Many of us have drawn attention that the DSS is not really a democratic party. I will remind you of only one man, because there may be others who remember that Mr. Zoran Stojkovic was a man who in our time tried my colleagues who sought freedom of opinion. The man became justice minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. He was looking for a concentration government. He has done a number of things and shown that he has no democratic capacity whatsoever. The Democratic Party went over it and it didn't bother her, she didn't mind them, she went in with them in the same boat, she accepted the same policy, and now she got what she was looking for. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, you boast that you have received a million votes. Just think how disappointed your voters are that you'll bring radicals back to power. You should not have allowed this, we have warned you that cohabitation is not the Democratic Party's policy and that you will have to file certain accounts for it. The moment you accepted Vojislav Kostunica as prime minister, you then handed over both the BIA and the Ministry of Traffic to whom it should - Mr. Velimir Ilic, can the "left hand, right pocket" go on? You'll even agree to that. I think the way out of this situation can only be one, and that's to discuss new elections. The new elections will not make sense unless these two clear options for Serbia are recasted, so that Serbian citizens can clearly and loudly identify whether they want to go through Europe, development, the rule of law, and not argue over the police and who will be spying on and who will hold the files and files. Whether Serbia will go through Europe or Serbia will go back to primitiveism, what we know and what has been proven to us all these 17 years. If we don't, if the DS and the rest of us don't make one clear and loud option between which citizens will choose, then let them win, it's still democracy. If they get radicals, they get radicals. But it must be clear what the citizens of Serbia will turn themselves in. I believe that this time we deceived Serbian citizens and that they voted for Europe and for a better life, and they got it that we should vote for the president of the Serbian Radical Party Assembly today, and the next day we have a minority government with a radical party. I believe that our voters, who marched with us and who have fought for democratic Serbia for years, are terribly disappointed and are in despair, but we offer this solution and say more jokes about where Serbia is going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must express my dissatisfaction. I've been listening here all day about some democracy and I've been hearing from people who want to represent democracy, and they act absolutely undemocratically. I am sorry that Mrs Vesna Pesic, speaking of her great democracy, spoke of democratic principles and principles, of course, excluding a party that received the highest number of mandates. She wanted to say that the Democratic Party of Serbia and the parties that are on the bloc with it are undemocratic, because they did not accept or understand who should be the prime minister. If someone already wanted to give a mandate, then it had to be given by the President of the Republic, by the Constitution, by the largest party, in a democratic way and by its government. If she doesn't, she's giving the other party, and the third party, and we'd have an election in three weeks. The reason for my report is that Mrs Vesna Pesic has talked about New Serbia, Velimir Ilic and, of course, her "left hand on the right pocket". I really can't understand that people want dishonesty to turn into honesty, to turn a lie into truth, to not like to turn it into work. Always in Serbia is criticised better than yourself; come on, then, please, New Serbia, Mr Ilic has worked three thousand kilometers in the past term and is grateful to the citizens of Serbia and satisfied. In the previous term in which Mrs Vesna Pesic was in, only 300km has been done. On the other hand, finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really must tell you, as an MP, I am surprised at this session. It can be here that whoever wants to swear on democracy and democratic principles is fighting in the chest to protect the interests of Serbian citizens, but believe me, this session of the Assembly will disgust the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens are hungry, thirsty and barefooted, because Serbian citizens will quickly come into the situation that neither children's allowances nor pensions, nor salaries to educational workers, health workers. Serbian citizens cannot wait for anyone to talk for four months, negotiate whether or not they will build a government. Serbian citizens want the government, Serbian citizens want to work, Serbian citizens want to live. Serbian citizens want an improvement for their family and do not care about such democracy and stories, returning to the past. I ask Mrs. Vesna Pesic who encouraged her to be an ambassador. Therefore, do not swear on democracy. Serbian citizens are interested in the future, in the perspective, but of course also in the present. Don't criticize better than you. When you show the results of the capital investment ministry, when you make 3,000 kilometers of roads, or maybe five, then you can say you're better. If you've had 300 kilometers in your government, you must accept that this ministry has made a significant step, to the satisfaction of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u252	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u253	Given the fact that the Democratic Party is mentioned and the policy understanding, which is reflected in the work of Minister Stojkovic, Minister of Justice, I can say that Mrs Pesic was very right, except that the Democratic Party accepted a policy that represented the work and work of Mr Zoran Stojkovic. I would also like to remind the Assembly, both you and the public that the Democratic Party has initiated the impeachment of Minister Stojkovic, that we have collected signatures, above all because we were dissatisfied with his work. The largest politicisation in the judiciary was conducted just at the time of Mr Stojkovic's ministry. The biggest party influence on the choice of judges and influence on the judiciary was just by Minister Stojkovic. His influence is also on the High Council of Justice, whose member he is in office. I will remind you that the High Council of Justice does not have its own professional service, does not have its own finances and that all documents are kept in the Ministry of Justice and is being manipulated by Minister Stojkovic. Even criminal charges were filed against Minister Stojkovic, precisely because by false reporting he replaced the presidents of Serbia's courts; he sent them inspections, and then covered up additional reports that freed them from the responsibility of the court presidents, to whom he sent the inspection. Minister Stojkovic and the government of Mr Kostunica and today exerts political influence on the judiciary. I would like to remind you that the High Council of Justice, which is not now in the legitimate system, due to the amendment of the Constitution, is calling for a contest to elect jury judges, who will be elected exclusively by party membership. I would like to remind you that there are several judges in Serbia who want to choose for party membership to continue to have a dominant influence on the Serbian judiciary. We have indicated the promotion of certain judicial functions holders by party membership. Those who have proven themselves in violation of fundamental human rights have been promoted in the past. They promoted those who were illegally tried, who participated in election thefts. The best judges in Serbia, such as the President of the District Court in Valjevo, were replaced before the term of office ended, elected and appointed. With all this, the Democratic Party has never agreed. I have one more thing to say -- that according to the party's commitment, the Serbian judiciary was financed, so Minister Stojkovic financed only those courts and prosecutors that were partyly attached to him. There are no criteria for how to determine costs for courts and other judicial authorities, and this speaks of how Minister Stojkovic performed his post. We believe that he has overly partyically performed that function, that he has performed, in agreement with the SPS and the SRS, the promotion of those personnel who were ideologically related to Slobodan Milosevic, where he has restored an ideologically failed political regime. It is precisely the coalition between the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia that began still around the restoration, above all, of the Serbian judiciary and the people of Milosevic's regime. In particular, I would like to point out the Law on civil servants, which Mr Kostunica and his government, with the support of the SRS and the SPS, provided a party election, the political choice of civil servants, provided them with a legal guarantee and only by drawing up these negotiations, sought an alibi for a new coalition with radicals and Socialists, so that the greater number of civil servants, by a party principle, would receive the state service and thus provide several thousand civil servants under the direct party influence of this coalition. In this way, leaving the government of Kostunica has also ensured a party impact on state institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u254	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u255	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting to member 104. I would like to warn you that you must take care of what the MPs here say and that you should treat your colleagues with respect, and of course also to state institutions. Mr. Velimir Ilic is still a minister, and Mrs. Vesna Pesic said she called him "left hand, right pocket". You had to warn her about that. Otherwise, a colleague said, during Minister Velimir Ilic, more than 3,000km of roads were made. In your day, Mrs. Pesic, when only because of love from youth were you elected ambassador to Mexico to grant your wish, a VIP salon was built at the airport and 18 people were arrested for it. What if you were doing the highway, how many of you would have been arrested? As for Mr. Bosko Ristic, I don't think he has any right to criticise Mr. Zoran Stojkovic's work, given that he was the chairman of the Administrative Committee at a time when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, instead of 250, had 308 MPs and 308 people were paid. If you were to ask yourself something, if you had a little cheek, you should put corn in the corner and squat and never again, until you forgive yourself, kneel, not to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u256	First he has the word Mr. Zarko Obradovic, then Mr. Vlahovic, you are third.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I raised my hand five minutes ago, but I'm happy to leave you a pay phone when I'm done. So, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to address one another with respect. Addressing with respect includes the obligation of MPs to speak the truth for this speaker, which means that they are dealing with the right information about what the Government did in the previous period. For a short time, the New Serbia MP said that in the period since 2004, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made incredible progress, road construction, highways and other major achievements made by the famous Capital Investments Ministry. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that the Ministry of Transport and the Government of RS, led by Dr Zoran Djindjic and later by Zoran Zivkovic, was in the period 2001-2004. the year, until March 2004, total reconstructed... If you listen, then you'll hear, and next time you don't have to tell the truth about this pay phone. So a total of 5,000km of roads in Serbia were reconstructed, built 125km of highways. And if, in these 3,000 kilometers of roads reconstructed since 2004, those roads that have been sprayed or used asphalt are also accounted for, then it is indeed a achievement and a kind of discovery still, unfortunately, of the current Minister of Capital Investments. So please tell me when you're telling the truth. Not your achievement and what you've done will be less significant if you say what has really been done in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u258	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u259	I have reported to advertise the Rules of Procedure on the claims made by Mr Bosko Ristic, regarding the situation in the judiciary, and Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the other members of the Rules of Procedure relating to the accuracy of the claims made for this speaker. I think that Mr. Ristic is the last to speak here about the situation in the judiciary, because the Democratic Party, as one of the DOS leaders, chose exclusively from 2001 to 2003 for several sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be held exclusively by people who passed the DOS personnel commission. At the time, since I was a member of the Justice and Administration Committee, believing it would last 100 years, they didn't even hide that the party criteria were the only criteria. They spoke openly at the Committee session whether they had passed the DOS staff committee. It didn't matter if a man worked in the judiciary, how he worked in the judiciary, whether he was a good student, how he graduated from college, how much he studied. It's a shame, but the fact is, for the judges and the presidents of the courts, we chose people who hadn't set foot in court before that. We chose people who had an average of 6.4, 6.5, 6.7, 7.1, who studied between 10 and 12 years. Really, which is a lot, it's a lot. Let's not talk about what they did in the prosecution after Mr. Djindjic's murder, at a time of emergency. Without the Assembly, they amended the Law on Prosecution, and then they appointed only political-like prosecutors, prosecutors of the Democratic Party, in order to, of course, make fun of the political opponent, or under those legal norms. The way they worked in the congregation, it was a disgrace to the congregation, either or it did not return. There is no need for representatives of the Democratic Party to lecture us here on what was in the judiciary, especially you, Mr Ristic, you are witnesses of that famous case in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when MPs of the Democratic Party resigned, signed up, said people had resigned and only appeared one day. As chairman of the Assembly Committee, you said you were in legal and factual error. It's a shame you're giving us lessons about the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u260	The word is Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been many lies here by my predecessors who do not want to see reality as it is, but want to make it in line with their political goals, which is to justify the coalition that lies ahead in this assembly, which was visible in the previous term. I keep seeing in every proposal the coalition that was launched in the previous assembly term. In the Justice Committee, when prosecutors and judges were proposed, there were always agreements and the majority was always created between the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party. Whenever the DSS praised a voice, there are radicals: either to reduce the quorum or to attend without a vote or to vote in the Assembly by elbow. Whenever the DSS needed it, that's where they had the support. As far as the mandate is concerned, I would remind my predecessors, my former speakers, that the Assembly was elected on a proportionate basis. When it comes to a proportionate principle, it means that the mandates belong to the parties, the list's applicants. And in 2000, it was like that. It is not possible that the mandate, in a proportionate principle, belongs to the MP, but is, according to both the Constitution and the law, according to then famous Article 88. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, belonged to the applicants of the list. I must remind Mr. Shormaz that Mr. Jocic, the current police minister, as vice president of the Administrative Committee, signed the first term of office. Mr. Ljubivo Slavkovic took away his first term, from Social Democracy. It's the first term taken away. Mr Kostunica voted in the DOS presidency for the removal of his term of office. So, this practice of taking the mandate in favour of the list submitted by Mr Kostunica through Mr Jocic and most of the Administrative Committee, which they then controlled. I wasn't even a member of the Administrative Board at the time. It's clean for a reminder. In his previous term, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who wants to be the speaker of the assembly, was the chairman of the Administrative Committee. How did she decide the mandates then? If the MP leaves the current assembly majority, his mandate is taken; there is an example of Mr Djokovic sitting now in the ranks of the DS Parliament Club. The G17 plus party seized the mandates, but when someone left the SRS, moved to a party that supports the assembly majority, he was not deprived of his mandate. So, the chairman of the Administrative Board acted to support Kostunica's authority and, by law, decided, from case to case, when he would apply the law, when he would apply the Constitution. (President: Time's up. I have the right to two replicas, two called me Mr. Shormaz and Mr. Obradovic. (President: You have no right. I'm right, ask the assistant secretary. I have three minutes for each replica. I'll finish thinking. I just want to point out once again that this co-operation between these political parties has started in the previous term. For earlier co-operation, we did not have the opportunity to spot it, but it is clear what is wanted of Serbia – Serbia's detachment and return on the road we thought had been abolished on October 5th 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u262	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that I have noticed that the people of today's regime, and today I don't know what kind of party status, are being investigated by Mr. Ristic like this. Mr. Ristic, how dare you make this up? How can you not be ashamed? You voted in favour of 123 acts by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and we in total for four, and these are resolutions and declarations, so general acts concerning Kosovo and Metohija. You're telling us who you are for 123 acts, and we in four, you're talking about some co-operation and arrangements. Are you talking, Mr. Ristic, about judges, about prosecutors, about those from your municipal and city boards, with an average score of 6.1 at the Law School, because they got an eight from defense and protection, and all the other sixes, passed on to be prosecutors, judges of the Supreme Court and to the most significant places in our judiciary. Is that what you're talking about, Mr. Ristic? I couldn't figure out how far your insolence could go. It's true, our people say, there's a saying -- the more empty the pumpkin is, the more rude it is, but I couldn't believe it could go that far, so you say it was established in this mandate or that one. Mr. Ristic, and when did you establish the nickname of Bosko Amila? Why don't you tell the citizens why this country's judiciary isn't working, not just because of what you did on the Administrative Board and everything else; why don't you tell the people what you've been doing with the car reselling; why don't you tell people what you've been doing with the car reselling; why don't you tell people you don't tell people you have a car reselling company, so they call you Bosko Amila, because they're after you all in Romania, and your Romanian partner is being chased by everyone in Nis. It's not that anymore either. I really don't see the point... All right, I see you're having a hard time, I see that you're sick, that you don't know what you're going to do with yourself out of anger, so you have to go out and talk like that, so you don't make a deal between Tadic and Kostunica, so there's no Toma Nikolic president. Do whatever you want, but this is pointless, find a story that makes sense. Now you're talking about it, radicals voted and supported, but your MPs are laughing at you. Everyone's laughing at you. Think of a story that makes any sense, which means anything, so it's okay to say, we're listening to our political opponents, everything's fine. I may have gone too far, I might have done this or that, but come on, if there's any way you can come to your senses and not talk the same way -- you're back in the '90s, you're back there, we're going back to the future; and where your brain remains concrete, maybe somewhere in '95. and '98. And you will never be healed, for even today when you say, in the past 10 years, you forget that you are seven years in power. (President: Time. I know it's hard for you to interrupt me, because I'm saying the right things, but I'd be proud and I wouldn't mind saying it's true, unfortunately, it's not. In any case, Mrs. Vukic, thank you, I'm sure you will democratically bring this to an end, just the opposite of how it was done at the time of Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u264	Dear fellow Members of the People, I am glad that Bosko Ristic came out on the line, because in that replica he confirmed what I was saying during the debate in principle, which is that there is absolutely a double criterion for DS members, and what is allowed for them is not applicable to others. Mr. Ristic, you told from this pay phone that the mandates belong to the parliamentary list on which the candidate or party from whose list he was elected. Then why didn't you let the SPS in 2002 get its mandates in the end? Why did you hold SPS MPs for 16 months, who after a few months were renamed to another party, and why did you use them as a spare Joker for the congregation majority? So, Mr. Ristic (yes, DOS plus Bane), Mr. Dacic mentioned that SRJ President Svetozar Marovic was chosen by that wildcard voice; where were you then to say that he could or could not. So when you have to take the other MPs, then you can. When you have to stop us from taking our MPs, or replacing them, then you can't. What are you guys talking about? Your fellow MPs did most of the committee, which did not want the SPS MPs for 16 months to be able to replace the MPs, 16 months before the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court only took 16 months after we applied for a decision that the terms of office belonged to the MPs. And what happened in the meantime? They helped you hold power, to have most. And that's what you've been doing, but don't promote that attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u265	Mr. Ristic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u266	First, let me tell Mr. Obradovic that there was a dispute within the SPS about who bears the legitimacy to apply. Please, your dispute within the party was before the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, responsible. It's absolutely true. Remember, if you forget that you have had conflicts within the party and that it has been disputed who bears a legitimate request to withdraw MPs, you remember that. As for Mr. Vukic, he has brought forth a series of lies here, and I don't know, it's hard to prove the truth, and Mr. Wolf needs to prove the truth. Neither am I the owner of any company, nor was I the owner of any company so far. So I can't answer his accusations. So if Mr. Vukic has such evidence that I own any company, that I traded any car or insurance, as you claim, please supply such evidence. So it's clear, but Mr. Vukic explained one thing to me -- why, as she said, she's an empty pumpkin doing what she's doing, but I hope this tall home is a set of honest, cultural and educated people, and that's how I'm going to behave. Therefore, the argument for all that is said and spoken for by the speaker must be present; this demagogy and the dizziness of the people are used whenever the arguments of the opposite parties do not correspond to you, because here it is true that there is a coalition, but back five years ago, which is visible in all decisions in the past term, and now continues. The radicals are clear to me, why they are trying to restore this system, but we are not clear colleagues from the DSS, they are not clear to me, whether they can vote for such demagogy, for such dusting in the eyes of Serbian citizens; simply, let them look and imagine, there is still time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u267	Mr. Milan Markovic has a word. Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie, Mr. Markovic answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm willing to even accept that sometimes I say a sentence more, but I'd like it to be remembered by Mr. Ristic, since he didn't remember it, but it doesn't matter now. I want to respond first to something serious that he said, which is completely untrue, and then I'm going back to the case of Bosko "Amila". So, first of all, as far as these terms are concerned. You resented something Mr. Nikolic, who wants to be president of the National Assembly for his term of office. I did not understand you, you said. There is a messenger who wanted to go to one party, and he lost his term, and then others resigned, and they lost their term. Mr. Ristic, Mr. Nikolic and we in the Serbian Radical Party have stuck to only one principle, moral and legal principle, and now I will tell you what it is. That means, if that man is elected on that list, he can't go to any other party afterwards and say, "I changed my mind because we have, as you well know, a system of imperative or bound mandate, not a free term, because according to which list they were... And SPO, you have to ask them whether they resigned or not, and they didn't resign, if they had brought their resignations, they wouldn't have been MPs. We had a problem with our MPs and we were the only ones who were essentially damaged by two parliamentary mandates, because we didn't have a blank resignation for those two MPs and we couldn't break the law, even though we were damaged. You don't understand, man, I don't understand how a simple moral principle can't be understood. Tomorrow to bring your mandate, your resignation, we will say – Bosko Ristic is no longer an MP, if it was signed by Boris Tadic or anyone else who was the carrier or the first on the DS list. What does that have to do with what you're saying? As for this other one, I have to say that I didn't enter the register, I haven't checked who it's being led to, but the whole Nis and, I would say, the largest number of people in southern Serbia know well and who it belongs to, and they know it especially in the Tempisvar. Now, if "Amila" is more hated in Nis or Bosco in the Tempisvar, I can't quite establish it, but I'm pretty sure people know very well, they call this one Bosko "Amila", and that one "Amila" Bosco. However you turn, it is known to the citizens what you do and to protect yourself in this way through various judicial connections. I'm not going to talk about it until I find some serious evidence, except for this which represents very serious indications, and then, with that, we're going to go public. As for the Serbian Radical Party, the Administrative Board, any manipulation of mandates, there was absolutely no such thing as manipulation of election results on our part, because in 2000, when we didn't like the election results at all, the first came out and said, yes, Vojislav Kostunica won, yes, DOS received so many votes. Many of your leaders came to the Serbian Radical Party headquarters for these results. That's what makes us different, Mr. Ristic, because we're not capable of falsifying such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u269	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm the one mentioned, and that's why I'm using the right to replication. I am the one to whom the gentlemen mentioned took away, stole the mandate, made another contribution to crime in the Serbian Parliament, and at some point whoever did it will answer for it. I simply failed to resign and that is one contribution from these Democrats. I'm not sorry about everything I've suffered for these two years, when I see what's going on today, how the coalition is being made today, I'm sorry for the honest and real people who voted for this sad party and that sad story that I once belonged to, that Democratic Party of Serbia, which doesn't even have a "d" from democracy. I'm sorry about all that, I'm sorry about that story. May your coalition be happy, and the citizens are happy in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u271	Thank you. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Will he be expelled because of the harshest curse?) He was cursing his mother, his sister, in the worst possible way. I didn't hear. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, I've reached out to the replica of Bosca Ristic. I would ask all MPs to understand that today the President of Parliament is being decided here. I don't understand that it's so painful whether one party will have a president or not. Coalitions are being made ad hoc and I don't understand some parties saying this is like the end of the world. I would say Bosko Ristic, since you are talking about the rights you respected at the time, Sabic made a solution in August 2002 to resolve the dispute, which you are talking about, within the Socialist Party of Serbia. Bane Ivkovic was an MP until the end of 2003. Therefore, Bane Ivkovic was needed to maintain the congregation's majority. At the time, you didn't mind that he was Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic, and now it turns out that some are a little more "wrong" than Banet Ivkovic. So you didn't respect the principles you were talking about. The G17 plus was talking about the sixth principle, and you were talking about the zero principle. What comes out of your principles? Imagine what would happen if the zeroth principle were valid, the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia; so you know where you would be in power -- in Mali Crnić, never, and I don't know where else you would be. Therefore, I don't know if you resent Kostunica for not being with you or resenting him for not being good. If he's not good, why are you inviting him to the government? Why don't you make a government without him? Why don't you make a government without the Serbian Radical Party? Why don't you make a government without the Socialist Party of Serbia? If you don't have a majority, accept the will of the majority. So you struggled, I suppose, to respect the will of the majority. I guess that's why you burned this assembly -- to respect the will of the majority, not to wear toilets and pictures from cabinets here at the Assembly. Then Professor Micunovic had to rebuild this home for two years so that we could meet today. I ask Bosko Ristic to answer now about these coalitions. Well, we're not ashamed, we were in a coalition with them, we were in a coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia. We weren't hiding. What are you saying? After all, why did you choose Kostunica to be Milosevic's opponent? Because you thought he was the only one who could beat him. Why didn't you push out your candidate for president of the Republic of Serbia? So, who did you beat? We were in a coalition with those who beat us in 2000, and with those who burned and destroyed us didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot of different discussions on different subjects. There are some things you need to look back on. From 2001 to 2003, the rest of the DOS tried to hijack the mandates of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and then after the Constitutional Court's decision, those mandates were returned. So much for facts. In January 2004, the assembly was established, and the government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, was elected by MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus, the Serbian Renewal Movement, New Serbia and with the minority support of the Socialist Party of Serbia. There was no other coalition in the previous period. It was the only one that worked. The government has achieved excellent results in different areas, yes, Mr. Vlahovic. The assembly passed 260 reform laws. For some of them, because they were good, you voted for both you and the party you belong to, and that's facts. The elections were held in January of this year and if any party had the opportunity to form a government on its own, it would probably have done so by now. We're all talking about democracy, but very often we won't admit the results of the election. Democracy means we respect every voice. Democracy implies that we respect the electoral will of citizens. I do not know that there is any party in this House that calls for us to reach certain goals other than the Assembly, except by respecting the will of all our citizens. Democracy says today is 7 May 2007, not some other year or other date. We have had various experiences in this assembly, but I think that in the previous period we have fought permanently for certain democratic principles. In the previous session, in which the Democratic Party of Serbia played a key role in the ruling majority, the first time we fought for the vice presidents to be of all parliamentary parties. For the first time, we have fought to have all the parliamentary groups involved in the work of the Assembly committees. For the first time in Serbia's recent history, the presidents of key committees were among the opposition. I think we've settled it permanently and that's how it's going to be in this and all the next stimuli. After these parliamentary elections, the Democratic Party of Serbia pledged to form the assembly majority as soon as possible. She began negotiations and held talks with the Democratic Party and the G17 Plus party for two and a half months. Because of all the important things that are happening in Serbia and all those things that are important for Serbia, since it was clear that it would take time to form a coalition government, we suggested that the speaker be elected, that the Assembly, if it has verified MPs, also gets its president. Since the assembly majority was not formed, we have suggested that it is best that all parliamentary parties agree and elect a president, that the Assembly receive its full capacity. That's what we've been trying to do over and over again. Unfortunately, parliamentary parties could not agree on a single candidate and that is a fact. We are now calling on all parliamentary parties to try to make an agreement and to all unanimously elect the president of parliament, for the simple reason that there is no agreement on the parliamentary majority. The Democratic Party of Serbia has done everything in negotiations on forming a new government and the assembly majority, to make an agreement and to elect the president of parliament, vice presidents, assembly committees and, of course, the government. Not by the guilt of the DSS, but because there was no will of the other parties, we still don't have that agreement. Since it is important for Serbia to get the speaker of parliament, the DSS believes it is important to respect the will of citizens, that it is important to respect democratic principles and that, since there is no agreement on the parliamentary majority, support should be given to the candidates of the largest parliamentary parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic, formerly Milan Markovic, a replica. I thought you gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u276	Dear Mrs. Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not give up on the replica, but there were colleagues who asked for leverage, I gave up. I wanted to say a few things that are very important to me. This return to the past and the development of our parliamentaryism since 2000 is not something we can all praise together. There were also problems between 2000 and 2003, there have been problems since 2004. One thing is the dispute: those who criticized the problems that existed between 2000 and 2003 came under the influence of these problems, and then did much worse in their term of office. I don't think there's any real dilemma here. So, if there were problems in our mandate, they were of principled nature, but, from the point of view of legality, the National Assembly worked without a doubt between 2000 and 2003. I have a few things to say. I'll try to answer all the questions quickly. Mr. Vukic says the Serbian Radical Party in the Administrative Committee acted in accordance with moral principles. I can accept the argument that we disagree with the fact that the mandate belongs to or does not belong to the MP, that it belongs to the political party, but we cannot question the constitutionality and legality of the aspect of our experience of what is right or wrong. So there's the Constitution and the law, there's a rule of law, and we have to act on it. The Romans, it is well known to you, Mr. Vukic, have said "dura lex, sed lex" ("bad law, but law"). We had the law then, and everything the Administrative Committee was doing, headed by Mr. Nikolic, was really against the constitution. The term of office, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, belonged to the MPs and I can't believe we have a dispute about it. I repeat, I can agree with the argument that you have conducted, which is that the mandates should belong to the MPs of the people, but please, the withdrawal of the mandate at that time was not in accordance with the Constitution and with the law, and I cannot believe that we as lawyers can have some dilemmas. I don't even want to talk about falsifying the Labour Act. So, falsifying the Labour Act, which was carried out in the previous National Assembly's meeting, is probably the most severe violation and attack on parliamentaryism in Serbia since the establishment of a multilateral system so far. I am giving for the right that I may have been wrong for the period Slobodan Milosevic, perhaps fellow Socialists know it, whether there was a major violation of the law at the time, I was not a member of parliament, but from 2001 to 2007, to today, the worse one, the worse one of Serbia's parliament was not, but there was a counterfeiting of the Labour Act. I sincerely hope that the Constitutional Court will at some point establish itself, as the presumption of criminal proceedings against Predrag Markovic is just the decision of the Constitutional Court. I believe that this criminal procedure will determine who forged the law, not because we love or do not love Predrag Markovic, but because it would never happen again to anyone in this assembly to think about counterfeiting the law, as I sincerely hope that this Parliament's assembly will avoid all the traps that hit the previous assembly of parliament and that finally, after four years, we will all be able to say together – Parliament has finally worked so that there is no doubt in the legality of its work. You say, Mr. Obradovic, there is no Mr. Obradovic, but a colleague said earlier -- there were no coalitions with the Serbian Radical Party. There were no official coalitions, but I must remind you that MP Milan Skrbic, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, stayed at the parliament session when the government was reconstructed, when Minister Bubalo was elected and I don't know who already did. I'm sorry, I don't know what the situation in the Serbian Radical Party is now, who's a member, who's not... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I feel sorry for you now.) You have to tell me why, if you need to, I'll... You can't dispute that fact, and knowing the SRS for all these seven years, I know it's impossible for your party to do so. Then don't say there wasn't some kind of coalition between these two parties, or co-operation between the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia. The judiciary was mentioned. Mr. Obradovic, I was a member of the Justice Committee. You know how you took the judges off the list? By what one of our colleagues says – it is "yellow" ("yellow", it is we Democrats), and then you take it off most of the time. You didn't even do us the courtesy of saying – this fan of the Democratic Party; you took off using such a peorative name – "it's yellow", so you took people off that board. I think this return to what was going on between 2004 and 2007, and what was going on until 2004 doesn't lead to anything. What we need to talk about today, I'm going to take this opportunity later in the discussion, that's to see where we're going now, whether this coalition should be made, whether it shouldn't be. It is our right to challenge your desire to be in league with Serbian radicals, it is your right to make this alliance; as it will come out, we will all see it together, but I have the impression that this return here is constantly being done in order to discredit what we are saying today. What you have for us to say for the period 2000 to 2003, it's already been spent so many times, it's already been said, that there's no point in trying to answer our arguments about how you now rule and run this National Assembly. As for something we've heard here many times, which is that one MP has the least right to speak of anything, who is the owner here to say which MP has the right to speak and who has no right to speak? Every MP has the right to speak. You're not going to go out there and tell someone - you have no right to talk. You're not here to decide, like we're not here to decide what you're in parliament for. Decisiond by Serbian citizens, and your party is in parliament. I don't think Mr. Shormaz has much to say to me in parliament, but I must respect him as a MP. It's just like that, and we need to learn to act that way. (President: Mr. Milan, respect the time. Then we'll respect. Here, I'm done, ma'am. In the end, Mr. Vucic says whether this is a tied or a free mandate, the question is, and I call on the next. We are only with this Constitution and these provisions, where a contract can be signed and secondly, although I think it may be a bad provision of the constitution, but that constitution we all brought together and was just a proposal of the parties, arranged for the mandate to be tied to the political party. I think it's a bad solution, but it might be a good solution in this period of development of our parliamentaryism and the transition from party to party, etc. Mr. Obradovic Rade says the Democratic Party has done everything possible to form a new government. Please, Mr. Obradovic, enough to accept the election results, it was just necessary for you to accept what the citizens voted in the elections. The citizens did not vote in the elections to make Vojislav Kostunica prime minister. (President: Time. ) You have put pressure on us and threatened to make a coalition with the Serbian Radical Party. So don't impute things to us. Mr. Tomic, come out for the pay phone and tell me what you have. (President: Time. I don't know what kind of problems you're having right now. (President: Time. ) In the end, Mr. Obradovic, unlike you from the Democratic Party of Serbia, we do not have such a coalition capacity and the width that we can do with both radicals and LDPs, both with G17 and with each. If you noticed, the only party in Serbia that does not have its own ideology and identity is the Democratic Party of Serbia. No party in this House can go with everyone. There is only one party in Serbia that can be with everyone, only to be in power, and that is the Democratic Party of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u277	We have two MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Marash is in business. Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u278	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I would like to explain to the citizens of Serbia what just happened. We, regardless of the intervention that we immediately did, are ready to forgive the MP. I guess the reasons are that he's pretty excited. So the DS MP, in the most brutal way, cursed the most dirty dictionaries by the Serbian Radical Party. I reckon it's in the heat of a parliamentary struggle and it's over. Whether he's raised or rude, that's what the citizens will judge. I will answer these legal remarks by Mr. Markovic. It's not true, Mr. Markovic, what you said. First, we had no decision of the Constitutional Court in any case where the resignations of certain people who left the parties were accepted – blank resignations, actual or otherwise. We don't have any decisions of the Constitutional Court on this matter. Even if we do, Mr. Markovic, we have no right, because the Constitutional Court must appear in each case. That never happened. Our principle was absolutely moral as we represented him in the previous term, when you didn't exist, because there was no law or morals. Now we listen to you as you say – you are bored with stories about the period from 2000 to 2003. You're not doing anything else in your lives, you're talking about what happened between 1998 and 2000. I'll remind you that earlier than your prime time, when you worked, arrested, kidnapped and did everything you could think of in Serbia. That's the facts. It is important tonight to show the citizens of Serbia what you are doing – that you are unable to take the parliamentary majority on one issue, the issue of establishing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to make a decision that you do not like. I'm very sorry about that, but we're not going to react like you do by taking away your words, or throwing out your unquestioned MPs, or anything else. We'll show you how it's supposed to look different and it won't be hard for us until three o'clock in the morning to sit around and listen to your distractions, to listen to how you're supposed to eat all the time in this world without anything happening. Don't let me remind you of what you were doing when we used to be similar, but to a lesser extent, methods, when you were the full authority of the state, which means to this day. So that's what we're different about. This shows only that you do not respect the will of Serbian citizens and that you do not want to acknowledge the election results that you have recently respected others. You cannot stand that the Serbian Radical Party itself is stronger than three of your parties, who were on your list – the Democratic Party, the SDP – Rasim Ljajic and the Croatian Democratic Community (HDZ branches, I do not know what the name, DSHV, is not important). They were on that list, and we had 300,000 votes more than your three parties combined. You don't accept that, and the problem is with you. I invite you and you go ahead, maybe during the night Solana breaks it and maybe sends us some new stealth, maybe bombing this assembly. It wouldn't be the first time he burned it. Who knows what he can think of tonight, and you're looking for, we're not going to step back and stay away, not for a single moment, we're going to welcome tonight when we're going to choose Tomislav Nikolic as president of the assembly. As I said, for at least 24 hours, we should look forward to Serbia looking back on you and looking forward to the success of normal Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u279	Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u280	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President, I would just like to ask you to take care of Rule 103 of this Rules of Procedure - the MP can only talk about matters that are on the agenda. For the last hour and a half, we've only been listening to every subject possible, not the topic that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u281	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u282	It's exactly what Mr. Markovic was saying here, but I cried out from the scene that some things weren't right. I reacted, and I'm going to say these things for this pay phone at home because you weren't telling the truth. I will ask when the Democratic Party of Serbia has threatened the Democratic Party in negotiations over the last three months to build a government with the SRS; if you claim to say so now and say, or taxively, when we did so. I'm going to ask another question, because we've been asking you questions all day, and you like to answer difficult questions, and you're ready for the tough challenges you need to answer: is there anyone in the Democratic Party who can answer me if the deal was made on Saturday? We've established disputed points, and there was no problem at all in overcoming these disputes and making a government. What happened during the night and where did you suddenly turn in the DS? How, when can it be said that a 99 percent deal has been reached? Why have you turned the story since Sunday? That's the answer you have to give us here. We've been asking you all day, and you're avoiding answering. That's what anyone who comes out will ask you to answer what force has affected your change. That's the real question that raises doubt in us, and I believe in citizens. What happened on the night between Saturday and Sunday to go on Sunday to attack, as Mr Aligrudic said, to simply banish us from negotiations? What happened to you? You are obliged to give us an answer, and to us that you have spoken to these three months, which is less important, but more importantly, you have to say it for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u283	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u284	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, five days ago Mr. Velimir Ilic has just said that you will make a coalition with the Serbian Radical Party. There are not ten days when Mr Aligrudić talked about it – it is possible to make with the SRS, why not. You're making so much noise to them that I'm ashamed to listen to you too. They're just saying, we're not going with you. You're asking me when you said you were going with the Serbian Radical Party. We invite you to the entire election campaign to say if you'll go with them, and you're afraid to say you won't. What's your pathological relationship, what's in it, I don't see anything special about them at all. Believe me, we're... Please don't throw me out of the place, don't insult me. What I said, if you think it's false, the public knows, the public has read the interviews of Velimir Ilic. I really don't know what else I can put here as an argument in my defense. Something else, Mr. Wolfie. You're wrong, because the Constitutional Court doesn't decide on individual matters until this constitution is passed. As you know, the Constitutional Court may decide only on general acts and, as such, the Constitutional Court has decided on the constitutionality of Articles 88 and 7. The Law on the Selection of MPs and put those two points of that member of the Law out of force and, on the basis of a provision of the Constitution which states that the MPs are elected by citizens, interpreted and interpreted by the Constitution that the term of office belongs to the MPs of the people. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: He did not quit. ) Mr. Vukicu, let Serbian citizens see who looks like a donkey and who doesn't. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: I told Markovic, not the donkey.) I'm sorry, I'm used to different expressions. You were different than usual, you didn't insult me, I admit it. It just means we shouldn't throw each other out of the place, because it's wrong to hear. So you're saying we can't stand you having so many votes. What makes you think we can't handle it? I don't like that you have so many votes. I don't know any successful country where such a political idea had so many votes, but you have so many votes. I can't do anything about it, just to fight it, to put out my party's program, but believe me, I don't have any problem with you sitting in this House. Do you think I have a problem with you and the DSS choosing Tom Nikolic as Parliament Speaker? I can only say that I think Serbia has a problem because of political orientation, but you're wrong if you think I'm afraid of something and I have a personal problem with it. The problem is with the citizens of Serbia, the voters of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and I think she will understand it sooner or later. There's something else I want to tell you. I think it's very hypocritical for you of the DSS to say -- we haven't negotiated, negotiated with the Serbian Radical Party. No, but this morning when you got up, Tomislav Nikolic showed up! Come on, Mr. Aligrudich, don't insult us. I don't have any problem with what you've done. I don't think Mr Tomislav Nikolic is such an unserious man, that's how he was pictured this morning to vote for him. You all agreed with the Serbian Radical Party. I'll tell you something else. The story is that this is the parliamentary majority, this is not a political orientation. No, Mr. Nikolic has agreed to be elected for three days. If Mr. Nikolic agreed to it, it's an honor, but I think it's a disaster. Mr. Aligrudic, gentlemen of the DSS, there's no need to be hypocritical here, there's no need to think that we're all here with reduced intellectual abilities. So no one here in Serbia believes that you thought of this morning at 11.00 to support Tomislav Nikolic as speaker of parliament, and that he thought of five to twelve to run. It's a matter of your political agreement. When there's a discussion here, I'll say everything I have to say about it. This was just a replica of Mr. Vukic and Mr. Zarko Obradovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u285	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u286	I promise you, if I'm elected tonight, one item on the agenda at one of the next sessions will be the discussion between DS and DSS, how it was all going and who wants to listen to you let him enjoy the conversation. It's very interesting to me, but I don't think it really makes any sense anymore, because none of you are running for Parliament President. That's why I promise, one point of the agenda will be to clear up what it's been like since Sunday, who's been seeing who, who's been coming to sleep with, but don't underestimate me. Mr. Markovic, don't underestimate me; I'll answer something if I'm chosen, if I don't, I'll show up somewhere, but none of what the SRS is doing today is random and nothing is just in the interest of the Serbian Radical Party. In view of your eyes, the Serbian Radical Party has no interest in having its representative elected for five days as speaker of the assembly. In view of Serbia's eyes, Serbia needs to have a president. I'm telling you today, and don't use it anymore, not to go out every time – we won't be taking part in any government before the new elections, we won't support any minority government, we won't form any government. Find a new topic. Don't talk about the DSS and the SRS coalition at all anymore. She's gone, and she won't be there. Everything you're saying is declassified. You're looking for another clutch, which brings us together. Maybe it's the fact that your president called someone from abroad on Saturday and ordered what had to be done. You know, when I hear that Western civilization orders Serbia, then maybe I do something I wouldn't do on another occasion. If you can stand being called... Here, today at the Foreign Ministry, there are 50 cars with diplomatic plates. They're coming after Vuk Draskovic now. Please concentrate on embarrassing me, there is time to talk about me, I feel comfortable when you talk about what's wrong with me, but don't talk about the Serbian Radical Party and don't talk about insinuations and bribes. We won't be in the government before the election. Whoever comes out here and says -- everyone with radicals makes a government, I'm gonna have to say he was either deaf, or crazy or drunk. The Belief of Radet, from the place, or everything. That's impossible, really, because whoever's crazy doesn't need drunkenness anymore. So, please, yes, I'm the target tonight, but I'm used to it, said Mr. Vukic, 15 years I've been someone's target, and you're using it freely, but don't use the SRS. We were not involved in any negotiations, nor are we ashamed of not participating. It seems to me that you are ashamed to participate. If it's impossible with the DSS to build a government, what makes you think you can negotiate with them, if they're wrong, if they've ruined Serbia in three years? You know how they ruined Serbia? You boasted that all your laws you left in the drawers were fulfilled, so if they ruined Serbia, they ruined it with your ideology. I won't answer, they won't answer any more radicals, it doesn't make sense, because there's nothing left to answer for. Aca Vlahovic is here. You've fulfilled his laws, and now we're where we are. So, we won't be participating in the polemics anymore. Several of our deputies will speak exclusively of our candidate. We don't want to talk about someone else's candidate tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u287	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic, and let it prepare Zarko Korac, not there. Next up is Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me welcome the fact that there are more ladies in this House than in the previous Parliament. That's one civilization progress. And if I'm forgiven, it comes from Europe. There's also that Europe can do something smart. She wanted the sexes to be as equal as possible, and I think it's very important. If there were more ladies in this House, I'm sure he'd have a different look today than he does. Once, a minister attacked Darwin and the theory of evolution. Then I resented her, but I have to be a little more careful now. I'm not quite sure that evolution works and that there's always progress in everyone. The problem we're facing, and I'm pleased... I beg Mr. Wolfie, how insulting, so what did I say? Do you understand what evolution is? That's one word that involves development, development, progress. But now I'm going to tell you, whoever believed in the progress of Serbia and the Serbian parliament to this day, if there is any intelligence, today will admit that he was wrong, because the way today's debate here is nothing different than what's been going on here for 16-17 years. It began with verbal violence, there was also physical violence, and then it was transmitted to other types of violence outside parliament on the streets. So in 17 years, we haven't made so much progress that we don't have to tell our colleague -- lie, you bastard, murderer, and so in order that which word comes to mind. Our MPs are extremely free. I don't insult them. It's a compliment. Whatever comes to mind, they also say insults with the first insult to appear to them. I have the right to say that because I haven't offended anyone here in 17 years. Therefore, when I talk about evolution, it concerns the progress of our Parliament. The second thing, we have three dimensions: the past, the present and the future. The past to correct can't, which was it and can't be like it wasn't. It's just that we're gonna paint it like this and it's a little bit of trouble. And the present, that's the courage to face the facts, to look Serbia in the eye, so let's say: so many poor people, so many unemployed people, so many illiterate people, so many evicted people, so many talented people who went out. It's a fact, it's courage to look into Serbia's eyes. Of course, it's much harder when it comes to the future. Then you have to have a vision, you have to understand where the world is going, figure out what's going on in the world and plan your place in that world, and that's the hardest. That's why it's the easiest way to go back to the past, you can talk endlessly and it doesn't commit to anything. What we have here today as a problem, there are many divided countries in Europe today. What we're saying is that only Serbs fight and divide, it's our ignorance of the world. Today France is divided in half, today Turkey is divided in half, today Italy is divided in half. But the problem is not that people are dividing, and sometimes these differences are very small, but it's the problem that they're dividing about and then there are different projects; sometimes one wins, another wins, sometimes they get closer; but what we have as a phenomenon is conversion and transitioning from one project to another. That's what we had when MPs move from one parliamentary group to another, but we also have when the entire parties change their allies and their projects. That's the problem we're facing. This is where Mr. Canak read it, it seems true to me, and he kept checking to see if it was true, the will of Mr. Vojislav Seselj. I believe the Democratic Party is following that will, carrying its badges, defending it there, identifying fully with it. Now there's another question. We have an agreement, we have on the other hand the Democratic Party of Serbia, which we have agreed to be in favour of preserving Kosovo and Serbia's territory, that as soon as possible we will launch an action to join Europe, that we will co-operate fully with The Hague tribunal, that we will continue all the reform laws that are there. That's what we agreed on in less than two minutes, and I was convinced that there was one project of theirs, and that this project was ours at the same time, and that we were together about one project. So that's why we started, if we agree on the oculars of four points of our joint programme, what kind of policy we're going to run. If the other majority were formed, I wouldn't want to turn out to be someone who hadn't heard Mr. Nikolic say he didn't want to, but there were many other statements, various combinations as far as possible. What surprised me was how it was possible for the government to come together with such a distasteful project. One's in Europe, one's not in Europe, one's in The Hague, the other's not in The Hague. It seemed illogical and impossible, and it creates confusion. Of course, we have big problems ahead of us. We have years ahead of us. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, it will be one very constructive, responsible opposition, along with other opposition parties that will be in this parliament, and no matter how most, minority or majority government is made, we will be its constructive, serious opposition, because we believe that Serbia has no alternative but Europe and European integration. The world wants to survive, we've lived badly because we've been isolated, so we've had all the troubles we've had for ten years. Now we've started to sort of open ourselves to the world, to invest, to build, to build, to build roads, to make progress. Let's see how we think we can survive in Europe and do it. Are we going to that isolation or not? I heard here a news story that alarmingly came that Solana had said somewhere that Boris Tadic should have control of the security services. He did not say the Democratic Party, but said Boris Tadic. Why? Because Boris Tadic is the president of this country And there is no state in the world where the head of state has no control over the state security services, there is no such state. [[Applause]] So, what Solana said, if he said, he said one of the most elemental things that the head of state would probably have to control his service and security. So building on that alibi why we can't have a government is funny and not correct. There is another problem, the easiest and most common word in the Serbian people, and unfortunately here it demonstrates incessantly, is betrayal. Everyone is a traitor, and the other is a patriot. That's what I listened to here, and I watched that heroism. I was saying, you're going to read that speech in the book, and you have it in your stenographic notes, I told you here before the bombing what was going to happen, I told you after what happened. You said - only if someone else's leg is trampling on Kosovo, we'll be out of the people, we won't be here, etc. We went to the referendum to confirm that we would not allow over our sky other people's planes, or those verifiers in Kosovo, etc. I don't know how many people came out, as it was, mostly a large majority, that Milosevic would receive 230 verifiers all over Kosovo after two weeks. He may have had to, but let's not get ahead of ourselves in some things and threaten where we're not able to stop and say, well, that's what we said, and that's where we're going to stand. I see some organizations are being founded, I heard Emperor Lazarus just now. Well, we know, Emperor Lazar was killed, don't get people killed, he went to die in Kosovo. I hope that's not the ambition of those who make it up. Let's not do things that aren't necessary. We can't isolate ourselves from the world forever. What the Assembly needs to do here today, if they have agreed, and I believe I cannot be so naive, that Toma Nikolic did not agree to be one charade for a few days, but apparently there are deeper national reasons. If that deal is there, let's vote and get it over with, and then we'll see what it brings to who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u289	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to notice one thing, since it is obvious that some have gone to their election campaigns. It is not right that Mr. Micunovic, this is a replica of him, because he challenged him, and he challenged the most brutal words he had sent to the MPs, and all of them fine and bountifully washed. It wasn't you, Mr. Micunovic, who spoke of evolution, it was Darwin's evolution. I don't mind you telling us that we're monkeys and that we haven't made any progress since that stage and that stage. You don't have to throw away, and I'm not gonna make up that you threw me something that you're not, like you're doing from this pay phone. Mr. Micunovic, it's nice to listen to you, but it seems like we've heard this before hundreds of times and you've missed the subject. The subject is the election of the President of the Assembly, and you haven't talked about it at all. We didn't say anything about your candidate tonight. We boast and we admire our candidate and we want to see in the end that result. First of all, we want the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to be established. You didn't say a word about it. I came out just once again to tell you that what you want to present tonight, about, this is for and against Europe; no, this is for and against Serbia. You are leading all together those forces that are for the destruction of Serbia, which are for the destruction of Kosovo and Metohija and separation from Serbia, because that is what Olli Rehn and Javier Solana are looking for. It is the motto of their political action in Serbia. The only thing they do every day is take Kosovo and Metohija away from you, when the Ahtisaari plan will be accepted. So here is the conflict of political ideas, those that are for Serbia and those that are against Serbia. It's become quite clear tonight. It's the best definition of our relationship in the National Assembly today. You keep mentioning something about the past. You're past, you're all past. When the Democratic Party wins in America, then for 12 years the Republicans rule, they cannot say after eight years to the Democrats – you are some former, former regime. You are the former regime and you will be, and we will soon become power, the people's power, unlike your unnatural. It's normal in every country on the globe to change power and opposition. But I will never and neither of us will allow, not a Serbian radical, not a folk MP, never will any of us allow you to treat the SRS and the people of the SRS as if we were, like, contagious or snotty, and you're very nice and smart, so you're too big Europeans, so you're not what. I'm willing to compete in the knowledge of foreign languages, and I'm willing to compete in the knowledge of computer technology, in many ways. But don't tell us, roughly, that you're beautiful, fancy dressed and very smart, and we're contagious, dirty and snotty, because we represent the people, we represent the citizens of Serbia, we're what the people of Serbia are, and that's what we're proud of, and that's our greatest virtue. We are not looking for anything for our country, but for citizens to live better, to fight corruption and crime and to be on our own. We're not looking for anything else. We just want to have our country. What kind of extreme parties are you talking about? You drag yourself through this story -- these extremists, like, only in Serbia. Of course we're not extremists, because extremists can't get 30% of the vote in any country on the globe, but we're normal Serbia, Serbia's future, Serbia that will beat all those who destroyed it in the previous seven years. (President: Time. That's why there's such election results. You can call us monkeys in an indirect way, however you like, whatever you want. Thank you for that. Maybe with or without Darwin's theory, wait soon to see the election results. Maybe Darwin was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u291	I can't fight. Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u292	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Professor Micunovic, Mr Solana may not need to know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but you, as a MP, would have to know. The President of the Republic cannot be in charge of something the government, the Prime Minister or parliament is responsible for. Mr. Solana may want Mr. Tadic to control, as President of the Republic, the Security Service, but the Constitution does not allow it, nor allows it. You are a member of the DS negotiating team and president of the Political Council. Tell us already once that we know why you returned the negotiations on Saturday afternoon to the beginning. On whose orders did you terminate the negotiations and return them to the beginning? We've been asking you that question all day. You're on the negotiating team, answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u293	The word is Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u294	Mrs. Vucic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, you, Professor Micunovic, are, if I am well informed, the chairman of the DS Political Council or were. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, in Article 46, reads that the Defence and Security Committee exercises parliamentary control over all security services, or I missed something, Professor Micunovic, so here you are defending a different principle against which, as you have informed us here, you have fought for 20 years. There's something wrong here, my dear professor. You said we lived badly because we were isolated. No, professor, we were isolated to live badly, so that you could come to power. Well, it wasn't enough without this ignition, which was declared today by Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic here and some others, not to mention pictures of Konjević, Šumanović and others, and there are no 87. So, what I'm saying is that you're a harsh violation of Article 46. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. That you don't know the Rules of Procedure, I don't believe. That you want the president of your party to control the security services, I can understand, but that disqualifies you, Professor Micunovic, because you are the founder of the DS, because that program doesn't say what you're up to here today. I hope you've lost it, and I hope you don't really think it's possible that the President of the Republic is controlling six, seven, or who knows how many security services, because I don't know exactly how many of them there are, because some have come out of the country, and some are domestic, which are also controlled by those outside. It would've been good if this were just an episode, if it weren't an official position, if it wasn't the Democratic Party's policy, and if it were, then this story of evolution is exactly the mirror you're seeing yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u295	Here you go, Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u296	First of all, evolution. It doesn't occur to me to call anyone an ugly name, but the theory of evolution is one of the most general theories about the development of the world in general. So, the way I'm experiencing myself, I'm not getting into it, but I had no intention of offending anyone. The second question, I don't like polemics and it's not my wish, but I have to say something here right now. This is the second time you come out with a request, tell me what happened between Saturday and Sunday. The Radicals said they didn't care, and I don't want to burden them with it, but there's something that's a fact. It came out in the paper: the DS sent a proposal on how to resolve the issue of forming a government. On one principle, Djelic was to be Prime Minister and the ministries were to be divided as well. Secondly, to make Kostunica prime minister and make these schedules, the ministerial chair, in a different way. We haven't received any answers to that in a long time. Why is the time spent, why is it not talked about – they probably know it in the DSS. Then, before the end, in the meantime, the interviews of Velje Ilic and many others came, I must admit that there was a certain need to repeat something that we saw in 2004, that the talks led to the last hour, and that there are also some parallel flows and then it is said, time is up, in two hours we have others to support us – you don't have to. That's why I warned in an interview that we had to deal with it by 30 April. What happened? First, it's not true that it's all back to square one now. All the time the problem was, that's what Petrovic was talking about this morning, not to repeat the details, it doesn't matter how to schedule. There was an offer of whatever you want, that they had the MUP, that they had the Ministry of Defense, and we had the opposite, but what was in principle that one party couldn't have both the MUP and that had the BIA. At the last minute there was also a proposal to be a non-partisan personality, and we agreed to that. It is quite unusual for one party who has so many fewer parliamentary mandates from this other party to get the post of prime minister and thinks that it is not enough, but that someone was misleading her, etc., and not that these concessions were huge, which the DS did, to get to the government and to continue what had been done over the past seven years. Nothing happened. There has been published since Saturday or Sunday, and a proposal by DSS and a proposal from the DSS. You can tell exactly how long it's been and there's been no new moments. All of this came from the DSS proposal – take it or leave it, and that was the end. I didn't want to talk about it here, but since the question has been asked three or four times, then let me answer it. What we have at this point is this: we have a candidate for Parliament's president, who will probably be voted by the DSS and that's how we're going to end this story. I don't believe there's one coalition for this, another for that. I don't go into anybody's long arrangements either, but that's something we're standing here today and what needs to be done. Everything else leads only to who is to be found guilty of why there has been no three months of government, because the citizens rightly are very dissatisfied, bitter that so long without the government is existing. Someone should be guilty of that if there's a new election. We here now have two options: either we will quickly conclude that we need choices, that there is no government, or government will be made, with support we will see whose and what. That's all. So let's finish this job here and go home.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u297	Thank you, Mr. Micunović. Replica. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported myself calling for the right to reply first of all because my discussion today has been repeatedly mentioned. I warn you, at least we're talking about what we should be discussing. That is what I would like to draw attention to, first of all, to my colleagues from the DS, and then to the candidate for Parliament's President, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. At least at this point we need justice, and I mean you from DS, the justice of the policy that you gave up three years ago. What we need at this point is proof that you are aware of how big a mistake and an expression of willingness that with other democratic forces in society, those that exist here in parliament, but above all those forces outside Parliament, together we try to bring back the country to the concept and the track that it must be on, if we really think about achieving the goals that we are talking about here in the Assembly today. When we talk about European Serbia, we cannot talk about this Serbia while at the same time respecting the deep anti-European constitution, which was adopted by consensus of all other participants in this parliamentary debate. The constitution was followed by both the president and the prime minister, and at that time all parliamentary parties. If we talk about dividing into those who love and those who allegedly do not love Serbia, those who listen to their society and those who realize policy imposed on the outside, then we can do so solely on the basis of an analysis of the results of a policy that symbolizes two Serbs. In which elections the citizens voted for a policy that is currently inaugural in parliament. The LDP told its voters a month before the elections that are the basis of our parliamentary policies. At this point, we stand on those principles. We here in parliament defend a turn in state policy towards Kosovo. We insist on lustration as a mechanism for determining political responsibility for all the terrible things that happened in Serbia during the 1990s. We insist on amending the Constitution. We repeat every second of what we get support for. But the citizens didn't vote for what we all are present at this point, not as political actors, but as witnesses. How can we affect the consequences of belief, three years of belief, and letting go of the delusion that the new coalition partner of the Serbian Radical Party, yesterday's potential coalition partner of the Democratic Party, in what way can we believe that he will be able to achieve the political goals discussed here through that new coalition, which primarily relate to respect for democratic principles? If we are talking about democratic principles, we must first see where democracy is and what the state of our society is at this moment. Is that democratic? A society where the main political problem is the control of security services is a society far from democracy, as security control is a prerequisite for democratic society. If we are to discuss a relationship with parliament, then you, Mr. Nikolic, must be much more serious. Your relationship with parliament, among other things, is being demonstrated by your participation in this debate. I urge you once again to make known the answers we requested during today's debate from you. Do you, as future speaker of parliament, intend to lead that policy that you are hinting at your amendments to the 2007 draft budget, through the emphasis of demands for extra funds to be allocated to military financing? Do you, as speaker of parliament, intend to lead that policy that you promoted as leader of the largest parliamentary group by announcing a conflict with that part of the world that is not ready to accept the dictatorship of Serbia itself without any prior agreement with Serbia as state? It is very important that you run at this time for the most important post in the country, following the post of President of the Republic. There's been an irresponsible debate that we've been attending for the last few hours. We made our contribution, and at this point we insist. Answer the questions asked and thus convince the citizens, if not us, that they should not fear tomorrow. We do not fear that day because we know our society and the power that is now within it. The force cannot recognise this parliament as a protagonist of politics in which it will insist in the time ahead, at a time when it will face new elections as a democratic way of resolving the problem in which Serbia has been brought by a multi-annual irresponsible policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u299	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't comply with my demands to respond, I will answer if you choose me. One thing, the Constitution of Serbia is not anti-European. Serbia's constitution in the preamble says Serbia is attached to European traditions. If you think it's anti-European because it says Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, then it's anti-European. If Europe says it isn't, it's anti-European. And anyone who doubts the capacity, and particularly the democratic capacity of the Serbian Constitution, I suggest you read the Venice Commission's findings. The Venice Commission did not say that Serbia's constitution is anti-European. She found several objections, one she thinks is serious, one she doesn't think is, even in the areas of law, she said that the whole European Constitution. So it was least expected from one MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the Serbian Constitution is anti-European. You're really the first person I've heard say that publicly, and I've listened to a lot of European officials plead on our constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u301	Mr. Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jovanovic, you are constantly insisting on lustration. It would be okay if it were to end in principle, but for the sake of knowledge and behavior, to remind ourselves of only three things, three people, three parties. You were able to lute Banet Ivkovic, you didn't lustrate him. You made him a client. There was an instant party, which gave you votes to survive at any cost then in power. Today, we remember, the Socialist People's Party, in fact, does not exist. That's a fact. The old security guard, Dusan Mihajlovic, supported the JUL and SPS authorities, was a man of the non-democratic bloc and overnight, no less, the interior minister, no less or less, of the democratic bloc, as you interpret democratic and non-democratic blocs. After all, we also remember Bogoljub Karic, every morning drinking coffee in the Milosevic family's yard, but today he is good at supporting the government in Vojvodina, which is made up of a coalition that already makes it. Let's not be selective, one-sided and just talk about what suits us. Let's look ahead. If Tomislav Nikolic is voted president today, then Serbia goes back, if it is Milena Milosevic, then Serbia goes forward. No matter who makes that rule. Does it mean that if Mr. Nikolic is elected president of the assembly tonight, there is some kind of coalition. The man himself told you he wasn't there. Let's talk about it in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u303	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u304	As far as lustration is concerned, I agree she's needed. It would be great if it had been applied in 2001. Of course, at that point there was no political will and now Serbia is paying the price of the failure. And today I said that everything that happened in Serbia from 5 October 2000 to this May 2007 was responsible for all of us who were political winners on that 5 October 2000, that the least responsibility could be transferred to the parties of the previous regime. So many times we have said that we are opposed to those attitudes that frighten Serbia with the Radical Party, while some other parties are taking political ideas and the goals of the Serbian Radical Party itself or the Socialist Party of Serbia, and we are not doing it today. At no time did we say that Serbia would move forward if the Democratic Party's candidate, i.e. the president of parliament, was elected. candidate, or she will go backwards if Tomislav Nikolic is elected president of parliament. We said we were opposed to Tomislav Nikolic's election because it was the only way to stop Serbia's collapse and its solar system, its backdrop that began on 12 March 2003. So, not at the moment of Tomislav Nikolic's election, but at the act of killing the democratic prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic. And we insist on that throughout the day in every debate of the MPs of our group. So, whether Tomislav Nikolic will be the president of the Republic Parliament or not, at this point, the more important question is how democratic representatives of Serbian citizens will refer to this political idea and whether they will have the strength to seek support this time on the side they ignored in previous years, which is in society, not in Kostunica's cabinet. That is why we ask the Democratic Party to tell us whether today's conflict with the Democratic Party of Serbia is a transitional conflict, a conflict that should contribute to an agreement on forming a government, or whether it is a lasting divergence that will allow in Serbia those political processes that are the precondition for creating a democratic society, which is to define clear positions. No one here has a problem defining the positions of radicals, Socialists, the Liberal Democratic Party, but we expect the Democratic Party, not to give justice for what was going on in the past, but to give hand to those citizens of Serbia who are today watching Serbia's return to 2000, those who have gathered before this building, those who believe in the ideas on which our policy rests, that policy that they have distanced themselves from, not ourselves, but many have. That distance brings us into this position to depend on those we can't depend on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u305	Mr. Jovanovic, I appreciate that you have your policies, it's nice to bring them out, I don't want to challenge your right to that, but as you said about us, in a very twisted and subtle way, but from someone who understands it very clearly, I will also tell you in an even clearer way. I think that you are the weeds of this society in a political sense and that surely society would make better progress that the number of citizens, which I very respect and who brought you to parliament in this number, I respect their delusion, they have the right to, that they were not mistaken and that they did not create an accident for this society that you have such a small number of MPs in parliament that you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u306	Replica, Mr. Canak. Let them shoot.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u307	Mr. Aligrudić, I am speaking to you, we who have been elected on the list of the coalition of four parties, whose carrier was Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, are not here by chance, but to remind you that you are not alone. You are not alone, and you have no right to act as if Serbia is your front. Another thing, to remind you, when we speak seriously, victory in a democratic society is declared when one party can make a majority with three individual parties or when it has a majority in parliament. There is no party in Serbia that can make a majority with three different parties. So, there is no winner in Serbia right now. In this election, no one has won but someone has won more and someone less. Personally, if I may, I only have one request, please vote for Tomislav Nikolic. Please show your true face and let us end more with this which shames both this home and this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u308	The word is Mr. Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u309	The scandal is the first word I will say for the Serbian Parliament speaker, because scandal is a word describing what we are experiencing here. The scandal is a way to conduct a session, a scandal is a dictionary, a scandal is a subject that is irresponsibly thrown away. The scandal is a sudden change in the Democratic Party's rhetoric, which after three months or three years of mutilating its own electoral body, with no clear indication that a change in rhetoric will provoke a change in political action. The DSS is a scandal in itself, and because of what it is doing here today, and because of what it has done to Serbia in recent years. I am sorry, the scandal is that in Serbia 2007, a man of such political thinking and a man who thus declares himself to be elected president of parliament, Djindjic. But every evil for some good. Those who have not seen so far should now see the selfishness and irresponsibility of political elites in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, this assembly has long discussed what is not the agenda point, and the agenda is the election of the National Assembly president. I don't know why so much noise is rising over the president's election. I believe that the majority of Serbian citizens will be satisfied if Mr. Toma Nikolic is elected president. I came out to support Tomislav Nikolic's election as Parliament Speaker on behalf of most citizens of Northern Banat and on my own behalf. One of my predecessors spoke for the national minorities and on behalf of the Hungarians, of course no one can speak for all Hungarians. He can only speak for those Hungarians who are members of the party he represents. This gave the impression that all Hungarians in our country are for the election of Ms Milosevic as Parliament Speaker. However, that is certainly not true, because Hungary has other parties. Like other members of national minorities, there are in all parties, as well as in the Serbian Radical Party, where the SRS is one multinational party, where every day there are more and more members and national minorities. Members of national minorities have recognised in the SRS a party that will represent the interests of all citizens of this country, regardless of the language they speak or the religion they confess. So that's one of the reasons why citizens of national minorities trust the SRS. We respect all nations and peoples in the SRS, and do not share people in the religion and language they speak, but only by who is good and what is bad. As the only MP of the Northern Banat, I support the proposal that MP Tomislav Nikolic be elected president of the National Assembly. With Tomislav Nikolic successfully leading the most numerous party in the Balkans, he will also successfully lead the National Assembly for the benefit of all Serbia and citizens living there. Good luck to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u311	Dear Mrs Vucic, dear fellow MPs, I definitely got the impression during Parliament's work today that this is not the National Assembly, but this is a assembly of political parties, which turn this temple of reason into a court mad, into a pillar of the silent service. Those who would possibly like to get to know each other better and understand this phenomenon could read the book of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and Kosta Chavosk's "Monism and pluralism", which I once presented in "Politics" and that's why I was suspended. In fact, at that time, Mr Kostunica said that whenever political parties fight each other and want to represent the entire nation and the whole country, they threaten that people and that country with disaster. Unfortunately, I'm afraid Serbia is approaching the disaster. I don't want to be an evil or a bad prophet, but in 91st year I also told Mr Milosevic that he spilled all of Yugoslavia with gasoline and that any lunatic could cause a fire of unprecedented proportions and so unfortunately it happened. So I'm saying, they're not right about Milosevic losing all the wars. No, I don't. He won a bright victory against Serbia's democratic forces, which he turned into a hanging home after 8th session, and the consequences of this today we suffer. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that because of the BIA, it is now rhymed, we will lose what we love most, democracy and freedom and the right to a better life. But if the people against it got up seven years ago, why are we dealing with it again? Isn't it enough that Vojislav Kostunica, on September 20, 2000, found that the poor country in which we live and that our life in it is stable? Shall we add more misery to this misery, may we pour new things into our lives and into our children's lives. It has been seven years since then, and we did not, although Kostunica was hoping then, become the average European state. I'll be honest, it doesn't surprise me. I am not surprised that we do not have an average European standard, average European wages, average economy, average health care, average social system, average education, but I am terribly, terribly concerned that we do not have an average European mind, because without average European mind, Serbia has no progress. I'm so worried about that, ladies and gentlemen, that every day we're destroying the system of human and social values and that building, the destroyed building, looks more terrible than the buildings on Duke Milosh Street that have been destroyed by NATO criminals. But that's the building we're destroying with our bombs, that's our crime, and we're all responsible for it. I am concerned that even after 2550 days since 2000, we will not be a team in this country on all fronts, at all levels, but we are building teams and teams that will be able to expand and increase only the political cemetery in Serbia, a cemetery where, excuse me, not all graves are counted. The situation in which we are, please be parliamentary, I have not offended anyone, clearly shows that in the act of nihilism, democracy is not a political form of humanity, as expressed by Masarik, but that it bears more and more the seal and branded democracy. That's why they're already telling us, as Joseph Vrhovec used to say, if Yugoslavia hadn't fallen apart, we wouldn't have seen us as the worst. I don't agree with that, we're not the worst, because we have great athletes, we have students, we have scientists, we have mathematical high school, we have black high school, but in key places in this country, unfortunately, in many places, there's still the worst and that's why Serbia can't move forward. Kostunica, and I end up with it, he said, we need a state in which the government fears the people, not the people of power. To achieve this, we need normal and courteous people, a person of democratic conviction and conviction, at every step and at all times. If the government doesn't worry about the new troubles of the people, I'm ordering some people to start causing trouble tomorrow. If the government, if the congregation doesn't care more about the cry and the voice of the people, forgive me, my people are starving, millions of Serbs are looking for bread crusts in containers, then let them stop listening to power. If the government wants to continue to recklessly rob the future of the people, let the people, not even a moment longer, banish us all, including those other politicians, into the trap of the past. Thank you for your patience, cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u312	Thank you. Mr. Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u313	Mr. Djuric, I would like to ask you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to stop mentioning Milosevic more. If you have any personal traumas, frustrations, something that drives you to such behavior, then you can sort it out somewhere else. The assembly is no place for that. To say that Milosevic poured gasoline on Yugoslavia and that it fell apart is not true. It's broken, it's broken because big people wanted it, and small, small people at the premises of the former Yugoslavia helped them. Stjepan Mesic mentioned more than once that he came to be the last president of Yugoslavia. Franjo Tudjman, Professor Letica of Zagreb, published documents saying it could have been without war, but he did not want such a way of resolving the issues, he wanted both Storm and Flash and unfortunately all the bad that was happening in Croatia. He wanted Serbs to disappear from Croatia and not 12% but 3.8%. Years go by and it turns out that the state policy was led in 1990, whoever was in power, or with the Socialists, was correct. Should Serbs have left out of Serbia? Well, for those of you who don't know what happened in 1992, nothing is true, for you for which history begins on October 5th, nothing is true. Do you know when they were Markales? Do you know what was going on on your Miskina Street? Do you know how there were bombings at Republika Srpska's premises? Do you know how that happened? Do you think there were arguments? Do you think it was a real fact, that it was really the result of what's happening on the ground? No, the Serbs should have been stopped and Serbia punished. I know that many are crying because the International Court of Justice in The Hague reached this verdict and said that Serbia has nothing to do with these events, unfortunately, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know, because that's why he killed that history he told back in the '90s. Gentlemen, try reading more than you said in the '90s. Try, you'll see that reality changed, not only until October 5th, but after October 5th. It will be easier for you to understand some of the processes that are happening both in the world and here in Serbia. And leave Milosevic alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u314	The word is Milisav Petronijevic, and to prepare Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's 10 hours on the agenda of the Assembly's session is the election of the National Assembly president. In those ten hours, Serbia, I'm sure, is tired of these stories of ours. Most of all, the ones who didn't even sign up for the discussion today talked about everything. She finds out Serbia today and that she's rich, that she's hungry, that she's barefoot and a lot of other things. Serbia has learned today that in the three months of Serbia's dizziness, the culprit is Slobodan Milosevic who was unable to form the government, on him, has become a rule, according to those who are not even on their knees. Many things Serbia has learned today, but two things are undeniable. First, at least in part today, Serbia found out who was distracting it for three months, who acted irresponsiblely towards Serbian citizens for three months, who had been driving Serbia crazy for three months. The second thing, Serbia will find out tonight, what is most important, that it has failed, I hope, is the final attempt to restore DOS. The elections were held on January 20th, the Assembly was established on February 14th, a motion for a resolution on Kosovo was adopted. Since then, there has been a blockade of not only the Assembly, of all the bodies of the Assembly, and while we add that the state of Serbia has no government, there is no constitutional court, there is no system institution, at least one thing we can agree on is that it is absolutely unacceptable political instability in the country. Immediately afterwards, parties called themselves the democratic bloc and the public and made clear to Serbia that a democratic pro-European government would be formed very quickly. Of course, when they say democratic means only the one they form. If on the same basis, on the same constitution and law, the principle of parliamentary majority is formed by another, as if it were not a democratic government. They also promised us, promised Serbia that the government would be formed as soon as the delegation returned from Vienna, then another day after returning from Vienna, and then by the end of March, then by the end of April, at least today we found out that the main goal was not to form a government. At the time in Serbia, it is characteristic that Serbia is full of big events and small people. Major events ahead of Serbia, Serbia, relating to Serbia and small people who are due to respond to these events. Instead of facing it, they began a great battle for the chairs, for the military, for the police, for Bia, they forgot everything they promised the citizens. They searched along and upside down who would keep the army or whom they would give it to, but no one alive should touch that poor Man. They would cut his veins for him. It's the one who hastily become General, Chief of Staff, everything he can, but he can't. The police, if they can be like that, say those from the West, that they are people who will be heads of the ministries and manage them, not ministers. The battle for energy begins, the battle for the state register starts and the battle lasts for three months. In the end, nothing. Meanwhile, Ambassador Cobel humiliates the country in which he enjoys hospitality, mocks the head of state of the same country, and he publicly says he will do anything not to do anything. So it is now seen that the real goal was not to form a government, but those who participated in this will have to give Serbia an answer to whom it was responsible not to form a government, at the same time as it corresponded to those who would part of Serbia's territory to take. Today, when a second possibility arises, it suddenly raises the question of whether it should, whether it is a disaster for Serbia etc. The SPS respected the right so-called. The democratic bloc to form a majority, to elect a government, to elect a president of the National Assembly, but they did not do so for three months, and would now prevent any other possibility, and another possibility arose to elect a National Assembly president, who was also elected by most of these MPs, a democratically elected president of the National Assembly. If so-called. The democratic bloc failed to make a majority, failed to propose and elect the president of the National Assembly, in which case we, for principle reasons, support every candidate proposed by the most numerous parliamentary group and do not engage in what name it is. We believe it is in Serbia's interest and the constitution of this assembly. I totally agree, it has nothing to do with the coalition, but I want to make it clear that I am speaking to the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party, do not be in a position to take responsibility for bringing this country and to get away from it as did those so-called. a democratic bloc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u316	The word has Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u317	Dear Mrs. Vukic, the chairman, members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members, comrades and comrades, MPs and MPs, it is indeed an honor for me to speak for the first time as an MP of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and a member of the Vojvodjan Group of MPs, the League of Social Democrats, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. Unfortunately, tonight, who knows maybe until the early morning hours, and maybe tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we'll discuss something, in my opinion, in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, which we shouldn't have discussed. I respect Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and I respect the people of the SRS, who have indeed been fully consistent for the past 16 to 17 years, as far as they exist. It is a completely different political view of us from the League of Social Democrats and them, completely putting one and the other in two opposite sexes in Serbia, but my God is such a country, so we are 48th in Europe, not knowing who is the last, us or Moldova. But I hope the next political events won't make us and definitely go to the bottom of the world, where unfortunately slowly but surely we're slipping. On this occasion, since I have information that we don't have as a parliamentary group much longer, just a brief on one political option, which even tonight someone is trying to call democratic. First of all, I mean DSS, new JUL, new Serbia. I believe that these are the two political parties that have shown in the past few years what they know to do, and I think that this taking off masks and carrying things clean will make it easier for the political action of the true democratic forces in this country, and I think by voting people from the DSS and New Serbia for the president of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic in the next few years, I sincerely hope that Serbia will make the right European state, precisely because I believe that this vote and the two political parties will definitely leave it in the next 5% vote. Let me just say, since I'm from Zrenjanin, I'd like to say hello to my constituents. Also in Zrenjanin DSS, with 9% vote in the elections, holds 100% of the government, precisely because of the pathological hatred of the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and the Democratic Party is trying to hold 100% of the vote. I hear it's also in Leskovac and in some other environments. So much pathologically hating someone and so much wanting power, I don't think Serbia has had it since Slobodan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u318	The word is Mr Nikola Novakovic, and let Jovan Palalic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u319	My ladies of the People's Parliament and the gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we listened, we apologized to the vanity and darkness, everything and everything, there was hatred and spite, but the scarcity and the insolence most. This does not distinguish any of the parties in this home, and especially those who claim to have in their name or in their behaviour an essential adjective – democratic. And the danger is great that next year we're going to be eaten by locusts, so I wonder why we're suddenly here and in a situation like this, relatively easy, politely, and let's not brag about success, but the two or two-and-a-half-year co-operation we've been sharing that power cake in the past term, to meet in completely opposite positions. And as time goes on, I'm sure it's harder to listen and follow. And the impression is that the extremes have fallen a little bit, that the differences as much as-so, to say, they're getting closer, that we're not going to have to print new T-shirts with fists or anything like that. I may be naive and proud of exactly that, but I am convinced that these differences are not insurmountable. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the morning is smarter than the evening, this is true, but Wednesday is smarter than Tuesday. I have one proposal, why don't we, given that we went into the thick night and that I remember how Mr. Momchilov told us in that assembly that this is bad for our health, we didn't listen to it, right, and you supported it, and now that it's about you, now it's not harmful to our health, so we're spinning in that one story, it might be the least of the wisest and wisest that a decision like this, which is crucial, we delay, is my proposal for Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u320	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u321	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, along with a bile debate that lasts almost 10 hours, where issues from the past have been raised, big ideological topics have been opened, we have forgotten that today is an extremely important day for Serbia. The Serbian parliament's constitution and the fact, regardless of political differences, is being completed, says that Serbia should get its most important institution after the January 21st elections. I can't help but look back at the beginning of this session before moving to this point of the agenda, when a number of political parties wanted this whole discussion and the process of constitution to sort of avoid a strange interpretation of whether the 2nd point of the agenda of things was exhausted, as far as anyone knows. And that anxiety that was then created and that's been going on for 10 hours can only point to one thing. Someone is not responsible for Serbia getting the National Assembly at a time when it is being resolved and when they are trying to move past Serbia's will to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Who does that suit? Political chaos, Serbia's weakness, the absence of agreement, the absence of collecting national and national energy and power when we are fighting for Serbia's future. And that right now, when state policy has the opportunity to take a peaceful path, diplomatic means, through the exercise of rights and justice that are on Serbia's side in the Security Council, it wins Serbia's side. That's the question why is this mess and this anxiety going on for 10 hours today? And of course, in this atmosphere these days there have been interruptions of negotiations on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we all know what happened, at least the partners who negotiated. All the key points were aligned. There's one question left. Solutions were asked for compromise and for that question. The DSS, respecting the election result, said – there are five key ministries in each country: internal affairs, foreign affairs, defence, finance and justice. We agree, respecting the will to get DS four, but not all five and can't take absolute power with 22 percent. That's the question we need to talk about today. Following harmonised views comes a completely counter-proposal, which not only makes the story of the security sector extremely relative, but the resolutions that are supposed to belong to the DSS offer so that no real leverage is offered by the DSS and New Serbia authorities, i.e. they do not have any real leverage on the influence of the DSS and New Serbia. that its election result is so regulated that some others have influence and power. Of course, we saw a message from the European Union today, but that's not the first message. We, as a party that wants Serbia to be part of the European Union with its national dignity, were wondering why some others assess the effects of its institutions' work and suggest how they should be established. It's been going on for a few months, and it coincided with the government negotiations, and today we see where it all came from. Today, we have not received a single response to why negotiations are interrupted and why we are able to think about new parliamentary elections. Because today we are completing the constitution of the Assembly, we can face great challenges in the matter of resolving Kosovo and the Metohija. Should we welcome such a situation and atmosphere without any institution? Should Serbia turn into a weak banana state, send a message that we are an unserious people, that Serbs are an unserious and irresponsible people and that that is why they do not deserve to have what they have. We will end the process of constitution, and then if parliamentary elections arise, let's see, watching and seeing how the government talks were held, whether Serbia will vote as it has always voted, on whose side the DSS has always been, for freedom, for the right to regulate its state, to wonder what its government will look like, who will be headed by institutions, or who will stand in line with some other states that do not have their own and which are drowning in some new concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u322	Milan Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u323	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Palalic said a lot, the truth is not the style I'm used to, since we've known each other for many years, but I'd have to answer a few things in the form of a replica, which I have the right to as deputy head of the DS Parliament Club. There's already been a very difficult charge here on our account, at the expense of DS, which in translation means that we're working on someone's warrant, that we don't know what. It's a little bit, at least, irresponsible and irresponsible, because we've been listening to these kind of flat-rate accusations in the 1990s, and we know who said them against us, and secondly, why did you negotiate with us for so long, if we are who you say we are. It's something that doesn't have any cover and it's just as valuable and hard, as if I were to say the same about you, which, for reasons of decency, doesn't occur to me to say. I believe you don't think that either, I'm telling you honestly, but let's just say that in the heat of the fight, Mr. Aligrudic, and then you do it again. Does anyone from the EU have a certain opinion on our country? You know, it's the opinion of someone from the EU and it doesn't have to be worth the attitudes that exist here in any way. If someone from the EU says - you know, you in Serbia should have good medicines and be treated, it does not mean that we will stop treating ourselves. If anyone says - you in Serbia need to breathe, we will not block our noses because someone in the EU said so. Don't use that as an argument in what we are doing right now and in our negotiations at all. I don't like the argument of the type – so do you discuss it so much today, and the Security Council solves the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. That's the argument we had in the 1990s, so do you demonstrate today, you want some democracy, and in Kosovo and Metohija, that's what happens. We must not use such an argument, nor should we thereby dispute the right of MPs and other political groups to make their political position here. You say, now someone is assessing the government's work and we're constantly spinning around it, so on the inside, and on the outside, and you're assessing the government's work, and so on. We've had elections recently, unfortunately, not so recently. The government's work was evaluated and we went out with our programmes, with our candidates for the most responsible functions, with their candidates for prime minister and citizens assessed the government's work. Do you agree with the way the citizens have assessed it, I believe neither we nor you are satisfied that the citizens have misjudged the work of the government. We are not pleased that citizens have not assessed the government's work even worse. But you can't get away from it. The citizens have assessed it, we have to respect it. I'll take the opportunity, another minute, someone just said it, it's not working here so much right now, someone's European if he knows English, and someone's not European. It is an idea, it is a policy, it is a matter of the DS and the last three years, and this three months of all power struggles to establish a parliamentary majority in Serbia that will allow the election of the president of the Assembly and the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue Serbia's path towards the EU. We believe there's still that potential in the DSS. We can't get our hands out of it so easily and get into a comfortable, comfortable position of the opposition and say, "Oh, it doesn't matter, come on, now we're all going to have a nice criticism of the SRS and the DSS because they're in some partnership right now." (President: Mr. Markovic, time is up. All right. That is what I really want to tell my colleagues from the parties gathered around the LDP, which I greatly appreciate for their courage, but I don't like the fact that at this session more than once the DS is mentioned in one negative context. Dear friends, we do this job according to what the citizens have created for us in the elections. We can't form a government without calling the DSS into that government. We cannot form a government of European character without bringing together all democratic forces in this country or at least all those we believe to have democratic capacity. Don't accuse us of trying for three months, because if we all think that the political philosophy and political ideas that radicals have, if we all think they're bad, why do you deny us our right to fight these three months against these political ideas? Do not challenge this right, as you must not challenge our right over the past three years to behave differently from what we have become accustomed to the opposition's behavior. Why is our behaviour controversial when we voted for hundreds of legislative proposals that are European laws, which are good for Serbia's future. (President: Mr. Markovic, time. ) With all due respect, indeed, I do not like that you use this topic in this way, although I highly appreciate your political engagement and we are really prepared in every way to protect you from certain political dehumanisation of your leaders who are being heard with both the media and for this speaker from some fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u324	Mr. Batic, replica. In order, Mr Bozidar Djelic, the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u325	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since our parliamentary group has proposed to first complete the second item of the agenda, and after the decision of the National Assembly from the previous session, that the state negotiating team present a report on the course of the negotiations, to inform the National Assembly, which should decide on a further course of negotiations, it is written in this material, and it is easy to interpret for those who are not qualified to interpret legal norms. Therefore, the National Assembly has been denied the state negotiating team's report on the course of negotiations and cannot propose a further course of negotiations. It's quite clear. Therefore, it does not obstruct our parliamentary group in any way to end Parliament's constitution, namely the election of the National Assembly president. On the contrary, it takes three and a half months for this wrinkling to last. It is an insult to Serbian citizens, it is an insult to common sense, it is an insult to intelligence. I don't know what's going on today. Why isn't the session over at six or seven o'clock, or at some reasonable time, then continued tomorrow. I know that you want this new political idyll to end, to end with one political marriage, and I think we all need to accept that this political concubine, a kind of political prostitution, is ending, and that is why I appeal to all MPs, true democratic options, not quasi-democratic options, to refrain from further discussion, to wish good luck to the new coalition, but to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u326	Thank you. There's another replica, Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u327	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milan Markovic, who I have known for a very long time, and we have really had correct co-operation, but I think I was misread in my presentation. Indeed, when an analysis of how the international community interfered with the formation of the government, especially in the section of the security sector, concrete statements, the interpretation of whether a minister performed his tasks in line with expectations and when it coincided with negotiations, but literally so that negotiations are interrupted, then it is a matter of one absence of mistrust. On these grounds, the government cannot be made. If everything is given, by respecting the electoral will, to establish a true partnership, then you cannot go into the humiliation of the DSS, nor will we ever allow it. You have offered to make Vojislav Kostunica prime minister, but such a prime minister has no influence in the government or in the security sector. If that's the final offer... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: No. Well, it is. All right, come on out and tell me it's not like that. If the government forms under these conditions, we will not form it. We will establish parliament so that it can respond to the challenges of state policy and endangering state and territorial integrity, and then measure our positions in the elections. We truly wanted to form a government. We believe that Serbia should get the government, but that it is a real partnership relationship, respecting the election results. We are where we are, it is important that parliament is established, that we have the highest state institution and that after 14 we see how this, truth, serious political crisis in Serbia will be solved. I'd like to talk about these matters extremely openly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u328	Replica. Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u329	Mr. Palalic, come on for the sake of the truth, let's analyze the situation seriously. The current security monopoly is the Democratic Party of Serbia, defence minister, Interior Minister Bija, minister of justice. Such a monopoly in the security sector has never existed since 2000. If four seats are required by the Democratic Party, why do you think it's taking away all the powers of the prime minister in the coalition? On the other hand, I must remind you that in October 2005, Mrs. Carla del Ponte visited Belgrade with a then retired general, Mr. Stankovic, to give him permission to be your candidate for defence minister, the Army, at the time, Serbia-Montenegro. If you're saying that anyone is interfering from abroad today about the current government proposal given by the Democratic Party, be honest, and tell me is it true what I'm saying, whether Mr. Stankovic, a retired general, was seeing Carla del Ponte, did he promise to fulfil his Hague obligations or not? It is not enough to go before Serbian citizens and say, we have received an offer that was unacceptable. You today have an offer to hold two out of four positions, and that's a small one, and you have 7% less than the Democratic Party and you have seven times more appetites than the Democratic Party. I'm sorry, but the citizens of Serbia voted that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u330	When you speak of two positions, Mr. Sutanovac, I would remind you of the very basis of these negotiations. So, bids were like this: the Democratic Party has finance, justice, minister or interior or defense ministers, and now I come to that, you can get the minister of police, but you can't get Biu. You can have the Secretary of Defense, but we will appoint the General Staff and the Chief of Staff. Now let's see who gets here. Those are the offers you've made. As for Mr Stankovic and his functions in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made every effort to achieve full co-operation with The Hague tribunal and that is absolutely correct. She's made efforts in all of her segments, and you're taking effort. Therefore, the issue for the government of the Republic of Serbia and that part of the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia has never been disputed, but we did not want to agree to this offer of full security control.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u331	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u332	Dear Chairman, I must agree with a colleague from G17 who has asked us to take a break and continue in one or two days because the MPs here show great fatigue and cannot concentrate on the discussion they have. Mr. Palalic, I understand you're tired, but if we say there's an army, BIA and the police, and we're giving you the army and Bea, explain to me how it's not fair? What kind of mathematics is it when you have less than 7% of us, while you have the inherited right to have his Majesty Kostunica as prime minister, although Serbia has not voted for it. Serbia voted to be prime minister either from the Serbian Radical Party or from the Democratic Party, only then from the DSS-New Serbia coalition, although according to results, Velimir Ilic should be a candidate for your coalition rather than Vojislav Kostunica. So I'm asking you not to say what's not true, Mr. Aligruditch, don't unfocus and then the man after this is wrong. There's no dilemma that the Democratic Party has no intention of controlling all security services or the security sector, simply from three things that you control, we're only asking for one, and one that you don't want to step forward because it's supposed to be wanted by Solana. And when Carla del Ponte approved Mr. Stankovic then it was acceptable, then it came out, promised nothing after that, Mr. Palalic, absolutely nothing was done after that on the work of Hague indictees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u333	Palalic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u334	I'd like to remind you again of today's statement by Mr. Javier Solana. It's very important. You here want to point to a balance within the security service, how DSS and DSS should, in your view, control parts of the security service, and here Mr Solana says that Boris Tadic should control the security services. That we're so naive, we're not. Now you want the public of Serbia to convince us that you have made us a fair offer. As far as the military is concerned, we know exactly who's in charge of the army, and what are the defence ministers' instructions? It is very clear in the negotiations on the role of the defence minister if there is no possibility of adequate communication with both the General Staff and with everyone about policy implementation within the Ministry of Defence. Besides, the President of the Republic also has jurisdiction over the Ministry of Defence. This matter should not be absorbed in these negotiations, and it is very important when it comes to relations within the security service. Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic, who was elected among other votes and the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u335	I thank you, so since I am the oldest here, and I am not tired, after Mr Bozidar Djelic, to prepare Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u336	Madam President, honourable MPs and honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for more than nine hours, this debate has been going on, and I am sure that I share the bitterness and disappointment of the huge number of our citizens who see today, unfortunately, as far as parliamentary life and the sense of responsibility that our country has not made sufficient progress. I would essentially like to focus my intervention on three essential questions. The first question is what we're talking about tonight, what it means to elect the president of the assembly. The second question is what makes the choice, on the one hand, Ms Milosevic, and on the other, Mr Nikolic, what the options mean. Of course, the third thing is to invite all MPs, and most MPs of the DSS-New Serbia coalition to vote in favour of DS proposal, Ms Milena Milosevic. At the end of my presentation, I am sure that they, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will be made clear why. First question, what are we talking about here tonight? In our parliamentary debates there are many topics, some are close to this, and others are very far away. Basically, if the agenda point is the election of the National Assembly president, we need to know that we are taking a very important step. That's what a few MPs have been talking about. That's not a technical question at all. Those who want to believe that is enough to read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly, according to constitutional order, is number two in our country, immediately behind the president of Serbia and, in the event of prevention, replaces the President of the Republic. The president of the National Assembly convenes sessions, leads them, determines the agenda. Not only that, but it calls, which is very important in the months to come, and parliamentary elections, and local and regional elections. At this point, given what we were talking about today, we should remind ourselves that, on a proposal from the government, it also declares a state of emergency. The constitutional arrangement and constitutional force of the president of the National Assembly are also great. This cannot be presented in any way to our citizens as one mere technical question – so let's pick someone, let's make it Friday, then 14, because my God is in Serbia from today until tomorrow, we'll see. That's not possible, of course, and it's not what's happening today. Today this is not the result of some technical arrangements between Mr Nikolic and Mr Aligrudic, but if this is confirmed, as many have pointed out today, tonight, on 7 May, we see a new political alliance of Seselj-Kostunica, which is being established before our eyes. It's something that's of paramount importance to our country. Of course, we have to ask ourselves how we came to this and how it is possible that in this house, which saw on October 5th a decisive step, where Mr Kostunica, the late Zoran Djindjic and all DOS leaders, risked their own lives and bravely headed for transformation, a democratic one, which has made it possible for our citizen to make as much progress as possible today on different sides of history. Of course, we're all responsible and there was a story earlier today. All those who, in one way or another, include myself, held a bar plot of power, are responsible for this condition. The break-up in DOS, followed by attacks on late Prime Minister Djindjic, until the overthrow of the reform government of Zoran Zivkovic, and then the constitution of a government, where it was tried, was said to be a sanitary deviation from the DS, in which the SPS was relegitised. No wonder today his leader says he has no authority without the SPS. It was the first step and for him were both the DSS and the G17 plus. Today that movement back in the 1990s is rounding up and we see that the hand of the alliance and the SRS is being provided. Today, a large number of DSS MPs have asked where did this turn-off come from? We see again that these questions are asked in that common sad way in the 1990s – who is the traitor here, who received the call; who receives instructions from whom, from whom? It's not a lot of complicated stuff. Remember, as soon as the election results were announced on January 21st, President Tadic called upon all parliamentary parties under the constitution and asked them to come out with their proposals for the mandate. Unfortunately, only DS came up with one proposal, all the others talked about other topics. The DS launched a series of bilateral talks and afterwards, at a positive request of the G17 plus, there were trilateral meetings, but unfortunately there was nothing that should be shared by the authorities and according to election results, respecting the citizens' electoral will, the sixth principles were already invented, in principle "eci-peci-pek" so that everyone could preserve their positions. Not only that, he was rejected and today we see why, to accept so-called The zero principle that we have proposed – that the future majority we talked about at the time (DS-DSS-New Serbia and G17 plus) is immediately shown where possible and at a local level, for example, in Novi Sad. It's been denied, but today we understand a little bit better why. For two months, the DS has asked for the citizens' electoral will to be respected, to accept the European, democratic principle that the parties entering the coalition from the highest number of mandates, the prime minister, comes here unequivocally to the DS. Realising that it was not possible to establish a government in this way, we have made a step that no other democratic party in Europe has done today, we have proposed the DSS, taking great risks ahead of those voters, there are almost a million who have given us confidence, to make a common agreement. There were plenty of DS proposals, lots of tables. I took part in these negotiations and believe that a great deal of effort has been made to avoid what is happening today, apparently, and this is the Seselj-Kostunica alliance. We tried until the last moment, some might say that we have exaggerated in these compromises and in this constructive approach, to find a solution to the security system. But we don't need Solana to say there's something wrong with that part. Whether the police have done some good things, it has been in the last two or three years, but it is clear that our country has no negotiations with the European Union not because inflation is 7% or 6%, but because it is not working in secret services, because we are not doing what the SPS and their late President Milosevic committed us to, joining the Dayton Agreement, which was established by The Hague tribunal, because that contract ensued the international tribunal. Simply, until the last moment, realizing that obviously the DSS is not willing to share the right responsibility in the security system, we have proposed a solution for Bia and the MUP, but they have used it as the first chance to declare that these negotiations have failed. We sent an unnumbered number of proposals, and the DSS and New Serbia sent one. We did not ultimatically respond to this one, but suggested an alternative and expected further conversation. Then the stories started that we might be foreign mercenaries. We can see today that what Mr. Ilic, perhaps a little too quickly, was talking about a few days ago, is that this political new alliance is slowly forming between Mr. Seselj and Mr. Kostunica. We have to choose today and that's another question. What are the consequences of Ms Milena Milosevic's election, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Not to slow down any candidate of professional quality and experience in working in parliament, it is not difficult to see a huge difference for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs Milosevic's election tonight will certainly lead to the election of a democratic bloc government, it will block our negotiations with the EU and we will be able to immediately access the realization of numerous pre-election engagements, which the DSS, which G17 plus, makes DS. I would like to remind you that we have not forgotten any of these promises, nor the abolition of the first apartment tax, nor 100 euros on average for a hectare of seeded area in registered individual holdings, nor the formation of a state scholarship fund, nor changes in pension law to ensure our pensioners an increase in purchasing power, in part by the growth of pensions with salary growth, or a series of other things that we have foreseen for our citizens, including for the country of obtaining EU candidate status and obtaining a white Schengen list at the end of next year. These are things that are still today, I would like to say to the honourable members of the DSS and the NS, possibly. On the other hand, we have Mr. Nikolic's choice. Once again without contesting his professional qualities, it is clear, and perhaps someone in it will see some paradox, the choice will be most enjoyed by Thaci. Most of all, those who want to find any excuse in the conflict in Serbia will look forward to breaking our state consensus on the defence of our territorial integrity. Not only that, it can be that very excuse for those who are least fond of our country, which in the Contact Group, which in the world. Clearly, these stories of turning to one or another center are not favourable. It is clear that we must work with everyone, including maintaining dialogue with those who are least fond of us, if they have power and influence in the international community, because isolation has never helped Serbia, nor has it ever won any gain. Thus tonight, after the possible election of Mr Nikolic, in fact, the most weakened Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will be, Serbia's positions in Kosovo and Metohija will be most endangered, and tonight we must think about them, and think about what other ways to ensure that nothing unilateral happens, and in a way that increases our activity, that this is not exactly the excuse that some need to end up tearing our country apart. I would also like to say a few words about the economic consequences. Of course, the outgoing government, thus showing that it does not want much with us, refused the agreement on the text of the law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, and we also agreed with our colleagues from G17 plus in 20 minutes. There was an agreement that together, showing this future majority, we would vote out these very simple amendments to the law and return public finances to the legal and constitutional framework. That's denied. It was rejected because we wanted to, we heard it as an explanation, to make one package of arrangements, to put it all together. So here's the package arrangement. Today we see why this isn't happening, and since there's no control and we don't know how much money left in the account. What we know is that the roads were spent without cover, that the public company "Serb Roads" had 260m euros in debts. That's not what I'm saying. I'm the director of that company. That we also have a series of problems in monetary and fiscal policy management. And not only that, but when that money is spent, there may be some investment in the energy domain, but it's only a matter of whether it's six, nine or twelve months. I'm telling you with full responsibility, and I'm not someone who wants to meet panic or scare the citizens, but let's be aware that the new Seselj-Kostunica summit within 12 months can seriously jeopardize the development of our country. The level of pensions, the level of pay and the return of our debts, because we see that there are even some wishes to isolate ourselves from our trustees, all possible, we are sovereign land, but nothing is free. Everything has a price and a price for the lives of our citizens, at what will happen, will be extremely high, and, as I said, no gain will be gained on the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Therefore, unfortunately, we can all be concerned here in Serbia tonight. The only ones who can look forward to it are Albanians in Kosovo and Pristina. Only they can look forward to this kind of development, and certainly not those who love our country. The third question – why should Mrs Milena Milosevic be supported tonight? I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. Without any, let me say, evaluations of the value of any parliamentary party here, all citizens of Serbia are equal, every vote of our citizens, went to radicals, LDPs and DSs, equals. But it is clear that, on the one hand, we have an acceleration of EU accession and, on the other hand, a return to the 1990s. On the one hand, we have a better life, and on the other hand we have uncertainty and risks. On the third hand, I guess it's clear to everyone that it's much better to vote for life than to vote for one uncertain adventure, because it's obvious that those who go into that adventure tonight don't know where the end is. We see for ourselves from the DSS and the NS and their voters in the vast majority did not expect this kind of development, and that they actually do not know what will happen after May 14th. As one MP said earlier, it may be for them a path without returning, but be assured that in very difficult weeks, months, I hope not years to come, the DS will be there, defending and part of European Serbia, and will defend the idea of a sovereign country that defends territorial integrity, which opens itself to the world and provides a better life for all citizens of our country. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u337	To me, what you just said, Mr. Djelic, sounded quite honest, that is, the way you spoke. That's in favor of whether you don't understand anything about what's going on here or that you've been misinformed. That it's most likely the way I think it is, don't find yourself offended. That, among other things, is in this information or this picture that I'm going to try to give back to you. It's about the last DS election convention that happened in the Arena. At that time, the president of your party Boris Tadic spoke at the final convention, in line with him were vice presidents, and you were somewhere in a crowd of MPs. At the time, you were already publicly promoted as a candidate for prime minister. I was asked by the people who saw the video -- who among these candidates for prime minister in Serbia. So, that's quite true, you can look at the video and see how you treated your candidate for prime minister at your final convention. That's one thing. So how do you expect others to see this as a serious proposal? It's just amazing. The other thing, what you didn't understand obviously, without least being angry, I think you were truthfully speaking, and I'm going to try to explain to you, don't fall into the fire and replace the basics. Indeed, there is no vote tonight on Serbia's political direction, nothing so dramatic and capitalic about what you're talking about right now. You are trying to say, to plead with candidate Milena Milosevic, and that this way we will determine Serbia's political direction and define what our job is and what the future government is. You're telling me that it will help this Parliament and all of us vote for your proposal for a candidate for Parliament's president and that it will help vote for a new government. That's a lot. I'm asking you a simple thing, which you probably don't know, someone else knows, but apparently my answers won't, which is why we were told on Saturday not to consider further negotiations with the DSS on the Serbian government. Which is why we were given a wildly opposite proposal to what was agreed on until Saturday, which is why we were given a proposal that is completely reflected in its face from everything that was agreed on by Saturday. Why was that done? There must be some reason. If that reason exists, it should be said openly. If that's why he's sitting in Brussels, that's what he needs to say. As for the principle you mentioned, that sixth principle, to remind citizens, was the principle of sharing responsibility, against which you rose immediately. And the zero principle was the principle of denying everything that exists on a local level in places where there are coalitions that weren't your taste. This, Mr. Djelic, is being resolved in the elections, which were equally scheduled and maintained this year, and then that principle of responsibility and shared the responsibilities that we could have agreed together in the first upcoming local elections. So don't put something that's logical, which is the principle of responsibility, into the same plane with the principle of destruction, which is the zeroth principle. Imagine if it were exactly what you're imputing to us, that we were trying to make a so-called. A new direction and a new coalition, then would you also recommend implementation of the zero principle, let's see what that would look like. I want to draw attention to you, what you're saying may be from your point of view honestly, but it's really loaded data that's not true and one emotion that you've been brought into, thanks to the really wrong data and misrepresented in the whole thing. Things aren't built the wrong way. We cannot build a government by electing the President of Parliament, but by coming out with the proposal, which says we have agreed on what the new government looks like and by delivering such a proposal to the Assembly and the People's MPs, because it is certain that the assembly majority has been reached. That's what you do. We don't do it by nailing each other and putting forward proposals for the President of the Assembly and saying, "Who isn't with us is against us?"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u338	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vucic, so Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u339	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will now explain to Mr. Djelic the seventh principle. First of all, Mr. Aligrudic, you're absolutely wrong. Mr. Djelic is a dangerous, dangerous, exaggerated player, he knows what he's doing, he knows what he's doing very seriously, and that's what we're going to end up doing. First, let's answer what Mr. Djelic is talking about. Mr. Djelic, you've said twice in the most corrupt way, as you look at it, just like you do, and so, Mr. Djelic, twice tonight, that in the possible choice of Mr. Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Assembly, and don't forget that he received the most votes from the citizens of Serbia, so you said most of all, you would be looking forward to one of your partners, whether Thaci, Ceku or another of your comrades. This is the one, Mr. Djelic, to remind you, who hangs out with Boris Tadic at the Skopje airport or is the other one, the one he called a soldier, which is the biggest and worst terrorist who slaughtered Serbian children and killed a Serb nematode in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Djelic, when you came to power in 2000, the fireworks were performed in downtown Pristina, looking forward to their friends coming to power. Tonight they will not look forward to a small, not political victory, but Serbia's victory, it will be enjoyed by Serbian citizens anyway, and Thaci and Ceku will mourn along with you, Mr Djelic. Mr. Djelic, one more thing, I understand that you have a problem with the Serbian Radical Party. You didn't say anything tonight, you were just talking about a Serbian radical party. I begged you, saying it wasn't the theme of the Serbian Radical Party, but don't worry, we'll answer that. You must have one thing in mind, Mr. Djelic. There are all kinds of alliances in this country. The truth works for both of us, and for Vojislav Seselj and Vojislav Kostunica, and I know why and how you said it. There is no alliance, but there is another alliance. And now I'm going to tell you exactly how this transverse is going, and now you're going to hear exactly. Thaci and Cheku, they're the same to me, right to tell you who you're working better with, I don't know, Mr. Djelic, I don't know which one is closer to you than them, Thaci or Cheku. Thaci, Ceku, Tadic, Mesic, Solana, it is the miraculous coalition that wants to manage everything and everything in Serbia. Have you heard from Thaci, Mr. Djelic, if he's reporting that he's pleased with your speech? I'm sure it is. Also on Kosovo TV, they look forward to every performance and at Meridian Bank, Mr Djelic, whether or not you are looking forward to, where you have 10%, 11m euros, shame on you, Mr Djelic. Is that what's left of your aunt, Mr. Djelic? Is that from your aunt's couch? What kind of principle is that? Seven or eight, Mr. Djelic? I don't care about that Djelic. I'm warning you right now that the Committee of Conflicts of Interests is not playing, they're all going to go to jail, we've got all the information and the paperwork. Mr Djelic was enrolled in the National Bank of Serbia as owner, name and last name, not someone else, registered as owner of 10%. He said he lived in his aunt's house and slept on the couch. From the aunt's couch came 11m euros, Serbian citizens, 11m euros. I'm warning the Committee on Conflicts of Interests not to play with their heads, to act against the law, to then enroll him in what he didn't report, since we also found out he didn't report it. Since you didn't report it either, Mr. Djelic, and that will have to be handled by the competent state authorities, it's a very serious matter...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u340	Time, Mr. Wolfie. Time, I must remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u341	Mrs. Vucic, your time and our time is just coming, this is Djelic's past anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u342	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u343	His time has passed. I don't know what it's like with that bank, but in accordance with the law, and when I talk about Mrs. Vukic, I'm talking about an important expert, a woman who knows how to do a job, unlike Mr. Djelic, who is not able to report 11m euros to the Committee of Conflict of Interest. He must have pulled 11 million out of his aunt's couch. I don't know where else. That's why there are no final accounts in Serbia. Rejoice you, Mr Djelic, with some other future victories with Thaci and Ceku together, and tonight Serbia will rejoice over Tomislav Nikolic's victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Bozidar Djelic, my former counterpart from the first democratic government of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, mentioned the responsibility of DOS leader. Since I was one of the members of the DOS presidency, I agree, we are responsible for what is happening today. If what was to be done on October 5th, Serbia would be at the door of the European Union today. Serbia is returning today, this way, to the 90th year. That is why our responsibility is great, especially for those who went to the canoes on the night between October 5th and 6th, in Dedinje near Slobodan Milosevic and cancelled the results on October 5th. This paints in the best way today the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder, and that's true. After all, I ask the question of our friends from the Democratic Party, because we have read the agency's statement by the Democratic Party that the election of Tomislav Nikolic dramatically reduces the possibility of forming a democratic government. I ask you, dear friends of the Democratic Party, whether the election of Mr Tomislav Nikolic will mean to you that you are still trying to make a government with the Democratic Party of Serbia. What else do they have to do to you? How long? As I ask the question to this new coalition, what does this mean? Not a question for us, but a question for the citizens of Serbia. They were many victims, many were hostages of irresponsible politics, demonstrated their political will on January 21st. What's in it for us? A coalition like this. But answer honestly for them, not for MPs. Does this mean the future coalition government of the SRS and DSS and some of their close parties? Does this mean the minority government of the DSS and others, with the support of the SRS? Does this mean new elections, after which the power of this new, no longer unprincipled, but ideological and political close, normal and clear coalitions will be appointed? You are obliged to answer these questions to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u345	The word is Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Nikolic, just before Alexander Vukic spoke of the mafia of Bozidar Djelic and the fact that the Committee of Conflict of Interest did nothing about you because you registered 10% of the Meridian Bank in your name, and what are the readers of tomorrow's "Justice" newspaper? Here's your picture, entitled "Where did you get the money? Djelic owns a Meridian bank stock worth around 11m euros." They're wondering if your aunt left it to you. Mr. Djelic, being nice to you and giving you a nickname for one of the characters in Disney's cartoon is no big deal. It's become a synonym for you all over Serbia, you say it doesn't bother you, you said it at the official convention. It bothers the citizens that you're a big thief and mobster, that you've booked 11 million euros in your name. When you came to Serbia, you explained to us that you were doing it for patriotic reasons and reasons, motives, that you had nowhere to sleep, that your aunt had taken you to bed, that somehow you were eating and that you were going to get along. The question arises, how do you have the honor and have to tell us about where Serbia should go further and how much the debts of Serbian citizens are. When we arrest everyone who robbed and stole like you, there are plenty more of them in the MPs' benches, we will be able to give a lot of things to the citizens of Serbia, really to light them up, to have better salaries, pensions, to train children better, and not to think about people like you tearing their skin out. As for today's course of debate and what is truly an extraordinary honor for me tonight, not only because I have been a member of the SRS for 15 years, but because Mr Tomislav Nikolic is my fellow citizen and a real Serbian people's tribunal, which has left an immeasurable contribution and a seal in the development of Serbian democracy in a renewed multilateral. Those colleagues who know him and the people who have been with him since day one in the National Assembly's benches, because he has been on several occasions and an MP in the National Assembly and MP in the Council of the Federal Assembly and the Greater Republic, know that it is a man, as in one of his books "In Assembly trenches," he wrote, indeed, from the assembly benches he tried, persuading his political insinuators, or unsuspecting Serbian radicals, and all of you are less and less, because we dominate the electoral body and the number of MPs here in two, to teach them what democratic processes are. Whoever remembers little from you, there are gentlemen, as Mr Micunovic has always advocated that the only normal parliamentary democratic approach, since we have decided after 50 years of the one-party system to restore the multiparty, to be strictly in parliament, to the highest legislative body, respect the will of the people. It has absolutely nothing to do with the executives. Since you boast that you are familiar with democratic processes, so you have friends in Europe, so you visit various parliaments, you Mr. Micunovic, you have landed, the hour has taken off, you have been in the air all the time, and every honor you have endured, as president of the former assembly home, you know that in parliaments where the will of citizens, the one who wins, and has won the SRS, there must be the first man in the legislative power, the one the people most want. What can we draw from today's debate, and how will Serbia and Serbia's citizens feel? You've been raped a lot, and in the course of the debate, you've replaced the thesis, you've remembered some ugly events for democracy in Serbia, which you've never respected, you've just called yourself that, but you've forgotten one thing -- that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, although an opposition MP, for all these years, has suffered the worst possible chicankings, as well as verbal attacks, especially in the period of 2.5 years ago, when he was a presidential candidate and when he beat Boris Tadic in the first election round, against all of you. That's not funny, Mr. Sutanovac. That's facts. I have a very important piece of data for you from Mr Tomislav Nikolic's biography. I believe you will be impressed by this particular data, which was accidentally left out of this text. You have read that this is an impressive biography of an honorable and honest Serb, a man who has been decorated with morality, honor, honesty, his own knowledge, his reputation, and in the midst in which he lives and in all of Serbia. That's why he's so respected today, and that's why today he's the politician who has the highest popularity in the electoral body. I'm really sorry, maybe it's just a technical mistake, but I'd like it even more and I'd like you all to write it with your pens, besides all this here, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic is also the Serbian Chetnik Duke. Often attacked, first he committed war crimes, then he didn't even participate in the war. It was a confusion in your head, Mr. Sutanovac, so you probably found out at the end what the truth is, but for him it's the greatest pride, and not just for that, but for the fact that he's the best friend, first associate and deputy president of the SRS, today the greatest Serbian hero and patriot. Tonight, it will celebrate democratic and patriotic Serbia, all Serbian citizens, but it will also celebrate patriots from all over the world, because in this building, the House of the National Assembly, the former Federal Assembly, Tomislav Nikolic received accredited ambassadors from three quarters of the world, which you can never imagine. Because if you run to Solana or call you on the phone, or if you kiss the hand of one of the villains, if you're courting, you think you've done something good for Serbia. No, that's what Tomislav Nikolic did at the most difficult times for the state and the people. And when it was decided on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately and today when it was decided on, he was the first man to forget and put party interests below him and commit himself to the state and the people, and he showed that he was stable and wise, state-wise, that he was a responsible man and that, unlike you and the ignorant in politics and ignorance of what democratic processes are, he never flew in and never made statements that could harm the Serbian people and the Serbian state. That's the difference between all of you who call yourselves some Democrats and who you still need to learn about democracy. As our people say, how many more pounds or sacks of salt do you need to eat to have knowledge as it has about parliamentary democracy, Tomislav Nikolic. Serbian citizens will show it. To correct you, Mr. Djelic, you have just made a comparison, but you are not a termological one, you are merely a skill in robbery and theft, you have entered into the essence of it, but you have just said one false thing – that by tonight's election Mr. Tomislav Nikolic will be another man, I suppose you thought by rank of function in the state. What did you mean by the others behind Boris Tadic? Compared to Boris Tadic and all of you, Tomislav Nikolic is always the first, and will always be the first and the SRS, which has been successfully leading these five years, since our president is in the Hague casamat thanks to you. There is indeed a lot I could say, knowing for so many years and participating together with him and honest people, Serbian radicals, in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, about Tomislav Nikolic. And being a respected host, a man respected by all those who have ever and anywhere collaborated with him, but most importantly, none of the political inexperiences, so you couldn't do it tonight either, you couldn't say any ugly character traits or traits that characterized him because he didn't have them. He never showed them in the duels, where he always beat you to the punches, whenever you attacked him in the worst possible way. That is why I am absolutely sure that Serbia will light around midnight, when the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will first sit true Democrats and representative of the people, who is synonym for the people's representatives after not 17 years since we have parliamentary elections, but after 70 years, because it was a Serbian radical until the start of World War II. What is important is to tell you that even today, at a time when it was of no importance, and when the distinguished gentleman, his Excellency, the Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba, Julio Sezar Kancio Ferer, did not even know that Mr Tomislav Nikolic would run for office as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he this morning gave him a letter from the National Assembly of the Republic of Cuba, the National Assembly of the National Government, the Commission for International Relations, which I will read to you: "The Parliamentary Group of Friendship for Kosovo Marttisari, since this proposal, not explicitly, seeks to establish its territorial integrity and sovereignty for the Serbian people and its institutions in connection with the proposal of the Intermediate of the United Nations for Kosovo Marttisari, since this proposal does not explicitly address the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian countries, and in this sense, we call on the other countries as part of the non-nationality of the state in which we call for the internal affairs of the state and the state, in which we are not a matter. During NATO's cruel bombing of Serbian territory in 1999, the United Nations' organisation proved insensitive to genocide, which on behalf of human rights was committed over the civilian population of Serbia, becoming an accomplice to these crimes, which now seek to sharpen and commit a permanent, hidden secession, which makes the true intentions of the Albanian-Kosovo elements of NATO, which is nothing more than destroying Serbia's country. Let it be sought and found the only solution that would allow the dignity and peace of life of all Kosovo residents, respecting the culture and customs of all of them and respecting the sacred borders of Serbia in the same way, without reducing its sovereignty and territorial integrity. "As the Excellency of the Republic of Cuba today came to Mr. Nikolic to give unselfish support to the Cuban people for our freedom and for democracy in our country, so will any of the honest patriots, of the honest statesmen, those who will not take away Kosovo and Metohija, Vojvodina, the Raska area, those who know that we have our constituents and that the voters in Serbia have their democratic right, will come to Mr. Nikolic, who will honor and pleasure all of us, you will also see you doing the honorary and fair function of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I already congratulate him in advance, and you may have a happy democracy tonight from midnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u347	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u348	I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... The rest is what you call a newspaper. This is all just not a newspaper. I must say that I have noticed that in this, as you say, Mr Tomislav Nikolic's maester biography, he is a participant of paramilitary formations, which have been doing jobs throughout the former Yugoslavia for which a large number of people are now in The Hague tribunal. The same number of people has been charged. That Mr. Tomislav Nikolic became the leader because of some merit in the wars. There were not many dukes in the history of the Serbian people. When there is a Duke Misic, the Duke of Traveller and you hear that there is a Duke Tomislav Nikolic then the whole history is analized if you take it seriously. Then when asked the question of what merits the Serbian Radical Party gentleman, headed by Duke Tomislav Nikolic, made, he said he didn't even carry the gun. He was dealing with the background. That's why they call him, young people in Belgrade call him the Duke of Beans, but they say he was doing great. Now, write this down, gentlemen of the People's Coalition who tonight will vote for the Duke of Tomislav Nikolic, that you have that in mind when you raise your hand to that man, especially I have been talking to a colleague I've known for seven years, who's been laying tears here today, I guess because it's a shame to vote for what the party is terra about. You don't have to vote, you can withdraw your mandate and go home honorably, and for those of you who vote, we'll see each other again, we'll meet again. I'd like to know how your fellow citizens will meet you in the cities. What tomorrow will tell you who you raised your hand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u349	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mrs. Vucic, I'm reporting again for article 103. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. This, of course, does not apply to Miss Jovanovic, who spoke so nicely and gently about Mr Nikolic, who is the candidate for the Serbian Parliament, read that wonderful love letter. This, above all, refers to gentlemen from the Democratic Party of Serbia, especially Mr Aligrudic, who comes out every once in a while to explain to us what someone told whom on Saturday. Please don't harass us with that. I know that you want this debate to move deep into the night, that the citizens of Serbia lie down, fall asleep, and not see how uncomfortable it will be for you and how embarrassing it will be for you. But you were so embarrassed, and you were so embarrassed when the SPS supported you for a while, you'd get used to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u351	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, I'll say two sentences, please. So, I don't know how or whether, we'll see when the vote comes, the DSS MPs will vote for Mr Nikolic. I know some of them are public, I suppose not all or most of them have circled Ceku and Thaci's archduke, Boris Tadic, in the presidential election. Worse than Ceku and Thaci's archduke and Solana's Corporal Boris Tadic would be to support, imagine, the prime minister of the 11m-euro Meridian Bank. Imagine something like that. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why Tomislav Nikolic and Serbia will win tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u353	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u354	Mr. Sutanovac, you and I have resolved this long ago and absorbed it, but I have to do it for the sake of the entire public and your colleagues. So, you don't know anything about patriotism and Chetnya, as you don't know anything about the security sector that you've been slaughtering for days and three months, because unlike you who are Cijian and then a student, I'm Mircic's school. Milorad Mircic, in contrast to you, chairing the Defence and Security Committee, proved back three years ago that he is being managed, as controlled by the security sector in the interests of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Of course, you didn't find it interesting, so you didn't even come back two years ago, which you don't care about, you had to go get your cobwebs in NATO or the ones they're paying you for. As far as Chettice is concerned, Mr. Sutanovac, you remember when you were on BN TV two and a half years ago, along with me, on one show, and you tried to fool yourself in the same way. In the almost 40th year you crossed the Drina, I had to remind you that it was only then that you first came through the Drina, where the people were killed, where many of the honorable people, the Serb volunteers, the Serb Chests, not the paramilitary formations, but the real Serbs, died for the homeland, that you were bullied and joked while the ads were and mentioned whether this one was the duke, speaking of the Duke Mirko Blagojevic, for Seselj or for the king. What happened after that? You were so scared that you barely got out, all disillusioned and you and your companion from Bijeljina, you begged a colleague from G17 to escort you to the Ratche, because you didn't know the way you got lost. And it wasn't enough humiliation for you to know nothing about Chetniks, that you scared them on the spot, even though those like you wouldn't look at it at all, but you're right, so in Shumadia, you say, "Seka Persa, two days later on BK TV, you start complaining." Is this one hero, a hero, one man who can stand up to Chetniks, who knows everything about the security sector? You tell Mr. Todorovic, apparently the general public, your colleague threatened me two days ago. So tell me, I was scared to mess with those I shouldn't mess with. Mr. Todorovic answered you nicely – she would never do that. I wouldn't either, let alone any honorable Serb to threaten one like you. You are the misery and misery of Serbia and this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u355	All I would say to you would be an insult to normality in Serbia, Mrs. Jovanovic. For the sake of your truth, feel free to bring all the dukes to one, that they are from Semberia, that they are from Serbia, let them stand in order, I have no problem measuring myself with all of them. So, that kind of threat was as much as you wanted to escort me to the border instead of the G17 lady, but for you in my car, there will never be room.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept a partial relationship in parliament between a man and a woman who would be such that a man is able to say anything to a woman, but this has gone too far, Mr Sutanovac, this is how you treated Natasha Jovanovic. That there's room in your car or not, that's so rude, I don't know if anything was transported in that car, but the only thing I know is that this was extremely rude and extremely irresponsible for someone to say. On the other hand, I just have to tell you, I don't know what to measure? It's not about weight loss, Mr. Sutanovac, but probably about heroism at some point when it was difficult, about courage, not about weights, and about who has 110, 120 or 130 pounds. If we're gonna talk about how much we measure, we're all small compared to the Duke of Meridian Bank when he comes up on his wallet. We don't have all that, 11 million euros, it's a miracle.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u357	Mr. Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u358	Thank you. I definitely came to the floor. Now I should tell this gentleman, the previous speaker, who is ashamed, apparently ashamed, I had to point out to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to this gentleman that he should be ashamed of himself, that he should be ashamed of what he is doing today, what his friends are doing, how they try, by replacing thesis, to create chaos, new conflicts in this Serbia. Your Mr. Djelic and your Mr. Sutanovac, as vice president of one, say, large parties, and by the votes it is, however, small parties with regard to behavior, allow themselves to throw away, but at this point it does not matter, it is probably a reflection of domestic education. Here you should point to the replacement of the thesis and your persistent insistence that today this Parliament is not working, as one LDP gentleman said, they have a completely legal and understandable obstruction. But, which is an obstruction of the Democratic Party, where at the moment Mr. Dusan Petrovic, another vice president of the party, replaces the thesis and requires a debate on the second item of the agenda that has long been completed. He knows that the agenda is over and that the report can follow only at a new session, and that this session, the election of the president, is also in the function of saving both the state and Kosovo and the entire society and our democratic order. What does Mr. Djelic know? He'd be a lot more convincing if he'd cried here, no offense. I had no intention of offending Mr Djelic, but his arguments were not in any way regarding politics in terms of economic action. This is best proved by one member of his political party who has now told me in the break – so what, the man earned 11m euros in three years providing advice. How does providing advice earn 11m euros in three years? So he says, "Here, he also sold Grand" coffee. Which, he says, wouldn't be possible, there's a commission maybe 15%. The gentleman who wants to know, who wants to be president of the Serbian government, who has been and will be serious, responsible, smart, leader and in this part of the Balkans and in Europe, and will always be a smart leader, this Mr. Djelic did not know that he was supposed to report his revenues, but now the 11m euros appear out of nowhere, fell out of the sky. He was in the previous government, under the Law on Conflict of Interest, had to report his income two years after the term of office was terminated. We didn't hear it here, but it's less important. It is much more important for all of their failures, and Mr. Vlahovic, if he will, behave like little children. We want everything, you say, we are the strongest, we have the citizens, we have to have everything, and the prime minister, and all the ministers, we can command everything, you have to agree, and if you don't agree, you are, at the very least, against democracy, against the state. It's not like that, gentlemen, it's a catchy interpretation of democracy, it's like you're supposed to be one serious democratic party, which has pointed out you still point out the principles, you say principles are important for forming a government, and you fall in first place or you're asking for Ponesh to stay where he is. Where are the principles, and where is your interest? Why don't you say, today you didn't comment on it, and you can't comment at all, you're directly attached to some consciousness, some conscience, some kind of instruction that's obviously not from this state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u359	Thank you. Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u360	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, two questions have been asked here. First, am I ashamed? I'm not ashamed, I said I share the disappointment of our citizens. I'm disappointed. I share concerns because I am concerned that tonight, where citizens of the Republic of Serbia have given us the opportunity to form, without any problem, an effective government that will within 18 months ensure our country's candidate status for entry into the European Union, attract additional investments, make it better for all of us, for unknown reasons, there is probably a mixture of ideology, unfortunately, given what we hear tonight and a little more than ideology, it was also about some form of mistrust. Unfortunately, it seems to me that it goes even further than that, according to what the Democratic Party is, I will simply never be ashamed, not me or our country, but I will always fight to make all our citizens better. That is the objective of the Democratic Party, and despite the difficult times to come, we will fight for it. Now, since you've mentioned it several times tonight, as far as my personal situation is concerned, I want to say that I don't have 11m euros, that I would like to have 11m euros and explain some things. I went back to our country after 25 years abroad and I never hid that I had a hard time there, that my family lived in deep poverty and that I knew what it was to have no bread. I lived in that situation and I know what it is to have no bread. I lived with my late mother, who passed away two years ago, and my stepfather in 7.8 square meters and it was hard. I know what it is to be poor, I know what it is when you don't know what you're going to buy bread from in the next day. My father and anyone else, and at least the state, never provided me with anything. I don't want to fall into any form of patheticism here, but everything I've earned, I've earned nothing at all, without any privilege, but from my knowledge, from my tremendous effort. I don't need drugs, I don't need anything dirty. I'm also capable of providing for my children, for my two daughters, and for my whole family and for my associates, no problem, thank you very much. Coming out of the government of the Republic of Serbia, a year ago, I was engaged in the second largest financial institution in the world, and I entered the ranking of top 30 executives. It's like real Madrid finance, it's the top of finance in the world. It is like Vidic in Manchester United or Djokovic in Topten, as someone who is able to play in that league, where unfortunately there are not enough people of our origin. In that world, with salary, often comes payouts in actions. And that bank is 100% private. It has nothing to do with the state, and I don't have 10%. And yes, of course, I've reported everything I have. Not only did I report this committee on the avoidance of conflicts of interest, but, as you can see, since that document came from the NBS, I've reported everything neatly to the NBS, because I have nothing to hide. There are no secret accounts with me, no offshore, exotic islands, unpaid taxes. Guys, what I make sure everybody knows that and I pay taxes on it. If someone's jealous of what they can do, but I don't have any shit. Everything I earn I pay my taxes and what's mine is just my success. What I'm saying is that it could have been the success of those people who work around us and that we should be dealing with progress, economics and every time one of our own succeeds somewhere we need to support it. I would like the people here from the SRS to say – bravo Djelic, this Bozo, show everyone how a Serb can be successful in finance, Bozo, this master, show everyone, we are proud of you, one duke, the Duke of Finance Bozidar Djelic, well done!!- I'm sorry. Not like this. I'm completely calm, my conscience is clean. I'm a successful man. I don't have to resort to anything. Everything's familiar, everything's transparent with me, fear nothing, and the money I've earned I don't owe anyone. Unlike some Democratic Party leaders, I didn't get an apartment from the state. For those of you who don't pay the info bills, I pay my bills. That's it, thank you, everybody! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u361	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u362	The evening is very serious, but the Duke of Meridian Bank makes us laugh once in a while. [[Speaks through laughter.]] Thank you, Duke of Meridian Bank. There are several problems, a respected Duke of Meridian Bank. First, Your Honor, let me tell you the next thing you know. You've committed several significant legal violations and there's nothing so transparent about it. I'll tell you right now, he's not registered in cash for 11m euros, but he's got 10 per cent of the shares currently worth 10m and 850,000 euros, so he's right, it's not full of 11m euros. Now, let me tell you something, Mr. Djelic, we knew that you were Vidic, Novak Djokovic, even though you don't look like them, and we cheered for them, and we don't like you very much, but we know that you are a world miracle. But here is the key question, the Duke of Meridian Bank – did you report it to the Committee on Conflict of Interest or did you not? Yes, it is. No, you're not, Mr. Djelic. No, you're not. So tonight I'm warning people on the Committee of Conflict of Interest not to play with it and not to forge a violation of the law. It's nice for us that you're very rich, Duke of Meridian Bank, just don't talk to this poor girl in Serbia about how and how a great duke makes money. One more thing, the Honorable Duke of Meridian Bank, your 11m euros, I don't know how expensive your advice is, I don't know what it's doing to get someone to have 11m euros. For this to be played in real Madrid, we know that a man should know how to play football, so if he doesn't know he can't play in real Madrid. And what do you, Mr. Djelic, know and have in your head, and no one else in Serbia has, that no one else in Serbia can have 11m euros. Mr. Djelic, I didn't know that Meridian's bank was a branch of Manchester or a real bank. I heard that Meridian's bank was a Credi Agrikol bank of something, so he took it and who's gonna know what it was. I just know, Mr. Djelic, that you asked the National Bank not to show the information to anyone who owns the Meridian Bank. You insisted on keeping your data secret. So what is it, Duke of Meridian Bank, that you asked for, rather than when you saw that we got hold of that data and paper. So now you're starting to talk? Now let's yell - Go, God! We're yelling down at God, and we're yelling at Serbia. But down there, Bozo. In order for Serbia to move forward, the Duke of Meridian must go down. Happy you have been with your 11m euros, it is an honor for you and for your conscience, for the citizens of Serbia to see how smart and capable you are, and how much smarter and more capable you are than all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u363	The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u364	I'll talk about Article 104 again. Mr. Djelic, you seem to know how to share concerns, you know how to share Karic's money illegally, and you know how to multiply a conto in your bank account. However, I must tell you that it seems to me that you, as well as the entire Democratic Party, are in this situation only three people – that is Tadic, Jeremic and Sutanovac. The three men were trained at the Marshall Center, there apparently made some promises regarding intelligence services in Serbia. They seem to have made a promise that when they make a government with the DSS, it will be a government in which the DSS and Kostunica will be puppets, and where they will take control of all intelligence services, of the police, of the military. We see what is happening and what messages are sent to Serbia. After that, you, other than the state of Serbia, as ordered by the Constitution and as it is in all other countries, will be controlled by our police, military and intelligence services. Apparently that's why the negotiations were downgraded and paper was given that puts everything back to square one. That's why we're in this situation that we're in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u365	The word is Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u366	I have to say, I always get nervous when I talk after Mr. Shormaz, because that kind of political size rarely comes up after this pay phone. Mr. Shormaz, I think that over the past year and year, dozens of members of the Police, Gendarmeria, the Army, who were led by Minister Jocic and Minister Stankovic of the DSS, were trained at the Marshall Centre in Garmis. What you do not know, unfortunately, is the educational center where representatives of all countries of Europe, when I was, were colleagues from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Maghreb countries, many other countries. I'm sorry, Mr. Shormaz, that you can't see from the hatred you have for members of the DS what's a fact. Since you are a member of the Security Committee, I ask you to take as much time as you can tomorrow to ask Mr. Jocic how he educates spies in Garmis and on whose expense, and who will lead the police when he finishes his education.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u367	Replica, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u368	I don't hate anyone, not even you, Mr. Sutanovac. I didn't mention the names of any police officer, any of the gendarmes. I said three names and you now confirmed that you were there, but you didn't deny whether or not you talked about what I said. So, you said training, you were with the Russians. I didn't say any of the Russians were anything to whom he promised. I've just expressed my suspicion for the three of you. I've expressed my suspicion, and on that suspicion, it gives me the right to do what has happened in the last few days and what has happened to the negotiations. I may be wrong, but it seems to me like it's all the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u369	The word has it Željko Tomic
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, don't speak to us from the scene - you folk gentlemen and all that. It's hypocritical, you've been paying back Karic's money, and nobody's talking about it. You returned without a government decree, then your government. What about Alpis over the Chamber of Commerce? How much money's on? Don't tell that demagogue about the poor girl. It's very ugly and hypocritical. We don't buy 7,000-euro jackets in Vienna with Nicky Lauda, and I don't know what. You know who does it. No, it's really ugly and extremely hypocritical. Don't let us chase ourselves all night about it. Let's bring the debate to an end and finally do what we came here to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u371	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u372	Mrs. Vukic, colleagues and fellow MPs, I had an intention to contact earlier. I was going to, but Mrs. Vucic has not been chosen, otherwise I would have started if we would have relieved her of her duties tonight, because she's flagrantly in violation of the Rules of Procedure. The DSS colleagues just raise their hands and say – according to the Rules of Procedure, they give them the word, they come here and say – Article 104 and tell the story. If we have the same text of the Rules of Procedure, I learned the Cyrillic in time, in Article 100, paragraph 2 states that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is in breach and to explain. On the other hand, in Article 104, which Mr. Shormaz calls here – we will not sleep tonight, otherwise I would wake up in my sleep, as it is being held here – it says that the MP is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In another attitude, the Messengers of the people are obliged to turn to one another with respect. In the third position, it is not permitted to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. It is not clear to me why the chairman is referring to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, on several occasions, when none of these elements are injured, and it is said of the efficiency of the work, that someone is holding back, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u373	It's up to you, not the chairman. I'm 80 years old and I listen very carefully to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u374	I'm sorry, but it's not me. First time in 12 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u375	I gave you my word right away. He has the word Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u376	Mrs. Vucic, don't dispute our right to go out to the office and get us a call. That right stems from these provisions here and there's no need for such a haste. I don't know why you're nervous. You have no reason to be nervous. I feel sorry for you now who you're going to the coalition with, but what's there? I can't understand my DSS colleagues... (President: which member? ) is a member of 101... who are talking to our arguments about the formation of a political coalition here, a parliamentary coalition, probably later and a coalition that will form a government, I don't understand when we want to oppose it, to say our position which is why we think it's bad, not because Tomislav Nikolic is high or low, but because of the policy he is personifying and he probably believes, which we think is probably wrong, we want to say it's bad for Serbia, and you from the DSS are responding to what you call us traitors, so now you call us thieves, so I don't know what's next. Are you trying so hard to look like an SRS? What kind of way is that? We gave you Biu, the police, the army and the prime minister, then we'd be patriots, but since there were elections and, in those elections, citizens gave their vote for both yours and ours, and for everyone's policy, based on the programme and what we've been doing so far, you just can't get all these functions. You just have to understand that there's been an election and you can't control all the leverage in this country. You're telling us that we didn't want to form a government. We have the most in the interest of ending the DSS monopoly, and that the latter does not have 10% support in Serbia's electoral body. That's what this is about. Give us one argument. What more do you want from us? What is it that you're missing in this whole story? You're talking about some kind of security monopoly. So ten times we ask you from the pay phone, Mr. Petrovic and Mr. Sutanovac, okay, we have the Prime Minister, we have the BIA, we have the army, we have the police. All four things you want? Go ahead. All four? No, the citizens didn't vote for it. We're giving you the prime minister, we're giving you the army, BIA. What more can we give? That's what this is about. Don't try to be more radical than the gentlemen of the SRS. I'll tell you something else. You are constantly trying to distract yourself from what is essential here, and the point is whether Serbia after seven years and a pro-European route, is turning its helm and moving on the other side of the road. That's the point. Have you come to power on October 5th, and all this time you are in power, to understand immediately, no moment has the DSS left power, because you are only in power or is it acceptable for you to have every political alliance, with anyone, just to be in power; or have any idea where this country should go, whether it should go to Europe or whether it should go to Asia, whether it should be Russia's province or whether it should be a modern, independent, proud European state. You have to have a policy, because your policy is give what you give, give it to anyone, just to be in power. Please, you have brought the discussion down to the lowest level of your accusations against the Democratic Party, for ten years we have been accused by the SRS, your new coalition partners, and the SPS, your well-known coalition partners, that we are traitors...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u377	Mr. Markovic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u378	... You burned our flags in the squares, you chased us and arrested us. Are you and the DSS going to do the same again?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u379	Mr. Markovic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u380	Mrs. Vucic, let me tell you, this is where he really comes in, he picks up and he's got 15 replicas, and 15 people come out here, and he's got to replicate once...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u381	No one's been here without getting a word. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dusan Prophetović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u382	Dear Mr. Markovic, this tragic view of what is being given to who is actually saying why there has been no government formation. We don't need the DS to give neither the MUP nor the Bea, nor anything else, because it doesn't belong to the DS. Who understands such a state institution cannot participate in the creation of a state. Both the MUP and the BIA, and the Ministry of Defense and all the other state institutions are not party good to share. They must be the state institutions they are in every other state. The worst for Serbia is that the institutions are not there, at a time when not only do we negotiate the future of Kosovo and Metohija, but we have a request to form a new district in BiH, at a time when a new nation with a new language is formed in Montenegro, at a time when no Serb can return to Croatia. For me, these are very serious issues that need to be raised in this House, but in order to discuss this, in order to make certain decisions, in order to have both national policy and some strategic goals for the future, institutions must exist. That's why we have to choose the President of Parliament tonight. In order to have the President of Parliament, we must either have a parliamentary majority, which unfortunately we do not have, or we must vote on the basis of the first democratic principle, which is that the president of parliament gives the party that has the largest number of MPs. In the end, if you want to divide into democratic and non-democratic, pro-European and pro-asia, civilization and anti-civilization, then you need to know that you will become the subject of division. Like a sword fluttering from the sword and the dead. It will continue to divide, continue polarisation in Serbia on patriots and traitors, to other classifications that do not match anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u383	The word is Zarko Obradović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u384	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mrs. Vukic, Article 104. Dear colleagues, I've come out to advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure and Rule 104, and I think that's a lot, a lot. Tonight, the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the item of the agenda – Selecting the President of the National Assembly; President of the National Assembly, people, we are not talking about the government, and please, especially colleagues from the DS, stop crying. Whether you agree or not, please do not harass the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and us present MPs with a story about who, what, what, and why you promised, who will do this, who will. Listen to the oldest among you, who has said well, let us finish the work, whoever wants to vote, who will not, will not. He's got every reason. Really, which is a lot, it's a lot. I would ask the oldest among you, Mr Micunovic, to hold a course within the party, to teach your MPs a little, to teach them what the principles of democracy are, to learn little about what is done in the countries of the world which call themselves democratic, to realize that they are not Democrats who call themselves Democrats, but those who have some values and who respect the laws and the will of citizens. Many times tonight, DS MPs said, we were voted by citizens to choose the government, which is not true. For everyone, including you, citizens voted on the basis of the programme and the ideas that you and we and everyone else have offered in the election campaign, and it is known who received the largest number of votes or the smallest number of votes or between. Tonight we're talking about the election of the president of the National Assembly. If the point - the choice of government comes on the agenda, then the open story about the government, about the directors, about the portfolios, about the services, about who, where, how, how and why he was betraying the country, what money and how he made money. It's really a lot of really empty stories for tonight. Let us choose or not, in any case, to come to a vote to elect the president of the National Assembly and to show the citizens whether we are able to take one step that will make a single institution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, functional or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u385	Mr. Obradovic, it is not appropriate to give lessons here, you represent the citizens of Serbia who voted for you and made their views and gave your ideas. Explain why you will vote for Tomislav Nikolic, that's all right. But what's in place, which is a small part of your replica, which is what you dedicated your exposure to the breach of the Rules of Procedure here, is that we're talking about today choosing the President of Parliament and each of us defending our political views, our proposals or defending our support. That's where I agree with you completely. This is, and we've been talking about this all day one big political question and it's not a technical question. Each of us votes, and we propose Milena Milosevic, and you support Tomislav Nikolic, because you believe you are making an important political decision for Serbia. What should we do, since there is one part of this Parliament that is trying to make a big political issue out of a cobage, a technical question, and then unfortunately, this discussion, from time to time, enters into details that should not burden this sitting. They repeat once again, which is that DS, proposing Milena Milosevic, has proposed a policy of continuing to move closer to Europe, to normal life. Anyone who supports Milena Milosevic backs that policy. The SRS has its own proposal and they know what policy they're proposing, you know why you support that policy, there are some here who say it's not politics, it's technique. Unfortunately, the good part, and because of them, this debate lasts longer than it should.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u386	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u387	I don't know how many times we have to repeat that we don't say politics here tonight. The second question is, agree your views. So, I don't know which party centres you get instructions from, but here someone claims this is a political stance if we vote for Tomislav Nikolic, and someone, such as Mr Djelic, says that we have been convincing you all day that this is a technical question. It's not a political or technical question, we explained it very simply. So we support the democratic principle that when there is no parliamentary majority, when it is not about the most important thing, which is executive power, or government, and precisely because these parliamentary majority are not there, we will support the principle that the largest parliamentary group should give the president of the assembly. And that is not the technical question, as someone advises Mr. Djelic, nor is our relationship to the policy these candidates bear, as Mr. Petrovic argued. So, get your attitudes in line. We hear there's a DS delegation at the moment with Mr Tadic. I don't know if it's the group that advises Mr. Djelic or the group that advises Mr. Petrovic. So, get along. Secondly, they say in political theory, that is, the prerequisite that you have a stable state system is that you have a stable political system. He's made up of stable political parties. It's not good when there's electricity in the DS, when someone knows something in a piece, and when someone's making a deal that someone else doesn't know. So again I give you one warm recommendation – come on, make a deal. Third, I really don't understand your story logically. You've been attacking Mr. Kostunica and the DSS here the whole time, and in intensive negotiations you've been in these three months to build a joint government, many say that even now, you may not know, but some information I've received that is now being negotiated and negotiated. So it's just not logically normal. So it's abnormal for you to attack the DSS at the same time looking for her support to build a government together. Next thing you know, there's a lot going on around here. All the resistors are under attack. Someone does not want to admit that in these three years, however, a shift has been made, that the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the government of DSS, G17 plus, the SPS and with minority support, has been more effective than the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. There is no segment in this society and there is no area in which we have not done more than what you have done in the first three years. Mr. Djelic, for example, admitted something. He admitted to us, say, when he spoke, as the security system was being talked about all day, he admitted that the police were doing a good job and that there were good things. For the first time, there was a bust and a bankruptcy mafia, and for the first time, the customs, the travel mafia, the university and I don't know what it's called. Many ties were between some MPs in certain parliamentary groups with members of the bankruptcy mafia, who unfortunately took their own lives, etc. A lot has been done and it's good to admit it, because when you admit it, then we can sit down and make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u388	The word is Zarko Obradović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u389	Thank you, Mr Petrovic, for confirming my allegations when I volunteered to advertise the Rules of Procedure. That's right, we'll vote for Mr. Nikolic. We said that if there was no agreement and no deal, we would support the party's candidate who has the largest number of votes and the number of MPs and we see nothing wrong with it. I'm not talking politics, but you keep insisting on politics. If you're asking us to come forward, that's fine. Mr. Petrovic, we would not support your party's policy, a policy that essentially robbed Serbia through privatisation, a policy that humiliated Serbia, a policy that had not been allowed to speak for three years about Kosovo and Metohija, a policy that armed and destroyed the military. A policy that has replaced all the honorable generals and officers and policies that wants Serbia in military terms to bring in 30,000 people, and no one will explain to us how it is possible that a Greek member of NATO, with a little more population than Serbia has, could have over 100,000 troops. But the bosses said it had to be. When the bosses say you have to, then every explanation is sought. We are not for the policy that has led Serbia to poverty. We are not for a policy that has significantly reduced the rights of all categories of the population. I'm talking about DS policy. We are not for a policy that cannot say a single word against those who make the world map, including the Balkans. Did any of you mention today what happened in the 1990s, because when you talk about the 1990s, you only talk about the consequences of sanctions, you can't say a word about the causes and who contributed. You're right, Mr. Petrovic, but we don't tie it to your candidate, we're trying to talk about the election of the National Assembly president. If you don't understand it or if you need to explain your policy to the citizens, okay, but not tonight, you'll have a chance tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the next day, in the election. And that's an option, the elections are there, so make sure that the citizens like you another way, but stop harassing Serbia tonight with that story of yours that you agreed on, as well as for what. Oh, we're not interested. You didn't make a deal, the deal's over, we pick the president, and we move on, who will, and who won't, they'll stay where they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u390	The word is Mr. Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u391	All you've said is false, but that's the difference between you and DS, between SPS policy and DS policy. Mr. Obradic, I have no problem with you and no DS with you. You don't have any problem with us either. We explain to voters the way we think to change things in this country and bring them where they should be. Mr. Obradovic, remembers all these people watching, but there is also some younger world that was too young in the 1990s, where we were on October 5th 2000, where Serbia was in December 2003, where it is today. It's enough for everyone to look in their wallet and see it. I don't think and I don't have any ambition for you and I to bring this discussion here today to an end, and we won't be able to overcome our differences, and we're political opponents. But these technicians here are a problem because they want to present this vote as one technical question instead of what it is, which is making a big political decision. And today's decision on who will be president of this assembly's calling is actually going to be a decision whether Serbia is turning towards what it was like when you ruled Serbia or staying on this course that has been the way it has been since 2000 and which in Serbia has made a much better life than it has been since you were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u392	Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u393	We have heard from previous speakers that this government is more effective than the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government by many things or in all segments; I admit it is. It's more effective when it comes to unfulfilled promises. You promised to keep the state union, it fell apart, and nothing happened to anyone. You promised a quick path to European integration. We're the last ones on our way to Europe. Remember that Montenegro signed an association and stabilisation agreement. The visa regime of Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania -- we are definitely the last on the road to European integration. After all, you are also trying to make sure that Serbia does not go to Europe but to turn to the other side, to become some kind of Russian governor. You're hoping Russia will veto. You haven't learned anything from history lessons. All those high expectations fell into the water. We've been watching archival footage on RTS, so we've got a Russian overseas fleet on the move to prevent NATO intervention, and I guess it's still going to stop something. So everything that's promised nothing has been fulfilled. You promised further strength of institutions, five institutions. Here, we're trying to make the other one work. Serbia has no Constitutional Court, no state prosecutor. Serbia has a technical, crumb and phantom government. Krnu – because for months there have been no finance, health, agriculture ministers. Fantomsko – because this is the only country in the world where parliament has never chosen defence and foreign ministers. Technically, because she made herself technical. That means we'll do whatever we want, or we won't do what we don't do. We promised a pillar against corruption and crime. Well, every day of this government is a new affair. You're talking about privatisation. Every privatisation in Serbia since the beginning of this government, since March 2004, has been a crime and an affair. That'll show time. How to fight crime when the coalition partner of this government is the Zemun clan. You've met the head of that clan at the highest state level, as if Bush had come to the MUP. The interior minister, the minister of justice, the head of the government's cabinet, the head of state television, the head of public security, are waiting for the biggest criminal and murderer in this country. And you're talking about fighting corruption and crime. Economy – collapse, social policy – disaster. Serbia grows into thorns and weeds. No one does anything in Serbia anymore. Which you're talking about with your reach and reach, as if collective amnesia had occurred here. Finally, you promised perspectives for a young generation. There they are in front of the embassies, that's Serbia in the 1990s, and that's the effective operation of this fur, technical, criminal government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u394	Thank you. The word is Ivica Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u395	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, usually at this time Serbian citizens are doing some smarter things than we are trying to do today. Let me just tell Mr. Batic that everything is right. And you promised it all together before October 5th, when you came to power. It's seven years after 2000. How many years do you need to realize what you promised in 2000 in the election campaign? No one bothered you, on the contrary, the SPS in the past three years has even helped even one part of those we fought in 2000 to implement a particular political programme. But as far as I'm concerned, I really don't think there's any need to convince each other when it's better, I don't think either of us or any Serbian citizen wants to go back into the past, but rather look into the future. Our next week, as Nicholas Burns said, is awaiting a motion for a resolution on Kosovo and the UN Security Council Metohija. Tonight, a Serb was badly wounded by Zvecan in Kosovo and Metohija. The second one was shot at by a coded Klockot. I remind you of the consequences of what we're doing tonight. Someone here wants Serbia to have no institutions, no government, no government, no parliament and to go and wait for the Security Council resolution on Kosovo and Metohija without those in Serbia who will be able to defend national and state interests. I remind you, and I ask you all, after what you said about each other tonight, can you sit down again for one hundred and talk about forming a government of the RS? I couldn't agree more with what Batic just said. If you make a government, DS and DSS, you'll show all of Serbia that you're unprincipled, that you're only fighting because you're not going to fight with each other today and that you feel bad that you're not with each other today, and that you're attacking each other because you're not with you, not because you think someone's not leading a good policy. If Kostunica is wrong with you, or if Kostunica is wrong, there are no more talks about the RS government, and therefore I ask that we do not waste time. You know everything here. This is a winning game today. There are three parties to vote for this proposal, that is Tomislav Nikolic. I hope these three parties will vote in favour of the new government's proposal by next week. Serbia must have a new government. Thank you. I even think maybe we could do it tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u396	Thank you. The word is Bosko Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u397	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think for the first time in this assembly someone has advertised an injury to Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, because this Rules of Procedure serves to arrange the way this Parliament works. The way you run this House is truly disastrous. Everyone here takes their word for it, talks about what they want, you don't have any order of time for every speech. The registered speakers don't have the opportunity to report and say anything about this pay phone. Still, our people say, it's not snow to cover the hill, it's to show the beasts their tracks. However, the proposal for the election of Tomislav Nikolic showed what is happening in Serbia, who is working politically with whom, what are the political principles on which Tomislav Nikolic's election proposal for parliament's president was based. This is where we heard about some alleged distribution of security services. First of all, the DS argues that a new democratic policy that will lead Serbia to European integration, which will introduce new political values, social values in the work of this government, is being established in the formation of a new government. We want security services under civilian control, we want to unlock these services, that parliament gets timely information on their work. If I were a candidate for prime minister, I'd be fighting for the finance ministry, the economy. I don't understand this sick relationship, a painful struggle for secret services and security services. What is it that hides there that the people of Serbia cannot know? What is it they're guarding security services? Why didn't we ever get information on the boards that the services were listening to? How many times has the Supreme Court rejected a security request for a listening service? Is it true to listen to MPs? Are information used from illegally tapped conversations for policy-making to fight political enemies? Why are parties of certain ideological orientations constantly struggling to retain influence over security services? The DS is fighting to unlock all secrets. We want to open the files, we don't want security services to remain under party structure. For five years, Vojislav Kostunica has deposited his party influence on all institutions: in the judiciary, the Supreme Court. Let's remind ourselves, when we were returning Vida Schero to the judiciary, when the SPS forced her out of the judiciary, we heard the worst insults of the SPS and the radicals of her work and her personality. Afterwards, see wonders, SPS and radicals vote for the election of Vidi Shkero as Supreme Court President, only because they chose the BIA director at the same time. Because they should make decisions about seducing listening and monitoring measures with the consent of the Supreme Court. Finally, the justice minister seeks to amend the law by a criminal procedure, where any judge can, at the request of the police or representatives of the BIA, approve the seduction of special measures against Serbian citizens. Why do you do that? Just so that these institutions would be abused precisely in the political fight against political insinuators. We want to open this up, and it is not true that this is about the party distribution of institutions in an attempt to form a new government, but rather a desire here to justify new political values and new principles, which will bring open institutions to Serbian citizens who can control over elected representatives in this parliament. Enough of the deception of the people by the DSS, whose negotiations with the Democratic Party served only as an alibi to create a secret coalition with SPS and radicals. That's enough selling fog.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u398	Mr. Ristic, thank you. Dacic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u399	I want to be honest with the gentleman who just discussed it, that he is in legal and factual error. Like when he spoke when the MPs signed their resignations, and as if they had not signed their resignations and were in legal and factual error. Sir, Borka Vukic is the chairman of what she has, how many Borka, 81 years old. You always add. It's not 81, it's 80, I'm sorry. (President: nothing cares, add more, but I will wait for the end, with you together. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that each of you would like to experience that year and that he can do some more normal things than he can chair this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But in any case, it's not her fault that you failed to make a deal, only that it took every day to schedule consultations and that she was mediating between your political parties. She is eager to elect a new speaker of parliament and I hope you will not have any objections in her way to lead the session. I would like to thank her on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, those citizens who voted for us, for having been the interim chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for so long, although many of you viewed it underestimously, insulted, said a lot of things about the move, but she showed that in those years she was more vital, more visprendous and politically written than many, and even twice the younger, MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to thank her, and I would really like to ask you to leave the objections in the way we conduct the session and everything else for some other session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is no session-making crisis here, there is a crisis in Serbia that no one will, no one will, no one will, no one will, and no one cares about Serbian national and state interests. And when Serbia and Serbian state and national interests are gone, there will be none of your parties and our parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u400	He has the word Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I'm clear today, it's that breach of the Rules of Procedure is the main thing in our Rules of Procedure. Let me recall, nine years ago, at one of the last sessions, when our representative attended the work of the National Assembly, I think of a representative of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley, I think it was on the agenda to determine the referendum issue of refusing international assistance to solve the Kosovo crisis. I don't think it's necessary to talk about the disastrous consequences of that referendum logic at the time. However, I would notice a lot of similarities in today's session, unfortunately, there is a lot of that jargon of reluctance, the animosity of something that comes as the value of the international community, and in this atmosphere somehow I am in a great dilemma. We have seen trouble in the field, to convince our voters that after seven to eight years of break, because of the discriminatory electoral law, which made it impossible for minorities to be elected to this assembly, with the interruption of the implementation of the government's programme, i.e. the programme of the two governments, and the federal and republican, on the resolution of the crisis in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. We know that since 2004 it has been interrupted and that absolutely enough of these life problems are in some constant expectation of solving, and economic problems. Presevo is somewhere with six times lower income per capita compared to the average state. We also had, in addition to the economic pillar, a second in terms of security. We had a lot of questions with our pre-election meetings when they'd finally stop watching the special police. We know in the middle of Belgrade there are times when special police are needed, but it takes an hour or two hours, until the situation calms down. They even asked citizens whether it made sense to participate, whether democratic elections were, if they were under such a situation. There are other questions and things that need to be solved in school, and there are serious, very sensitive issues, where the Ministry acts like it's none of his business at all. They don't have complete information about the problems on the ground. It's the same in health care, it's the same in culture and a number of other life problems waiting, looking for solutions. Now is the message of today's session that people can be optimistic that these life problems can be solved, if most people don't get such a message here, what remains for minorities, what they expect. I am simply asking the question here now, if you were so homogenized when you brought the Constitution, which we did not agree with down there, because it did not recognise the basic values of modern Europe, at all decentralisation and regionalisation, but give it in the interest of all the citizens of this country, such as when we brought the Constitution, give it in the interest of the citizens to be homogenised now these seven days at that level and in the interest of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u402	I didn't ask for this kind of discussion. You asked, look. I want to protest the name of this parliamentary group, which belongs to the shock of Halima. Speak freely in Albanian, this is a free state, although I don't know if Serbs could speak Serbian in Albania, if there are any. You gave your election list the name Presevo Valley. Since when does that name exist? How the RIK could accept that name. You have thus suggested a new autonomous area, new autonomy and new separatism in the Republic of Serbia. I am deeply opposed, and our parliamentary group and our southern Serbian Socialists protested at the RIK, as it is possible to accept that name as an election list. The name Presevo Valley is not a geographical concept, it is unknown in the area, it was created when Albanians formed the Bujanovac Liberation Army, Presevo and Medvedje and they took Presevo and entered Bujanovac, and almost entered Vranje. That was when the new government came in November or December, I think, in 2000. And about the referendums, so it wasn't just us doing the referendums, now you held a referendum a few months ago. Whether it was a joint decision by the Assembly, and the Democratic Party, and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the SRS, and the SPS, I think it supported the G17 plus, but did not support the LDP, was the only one against the referendum. Did you write that preamble of the constitution? That preamble was written by your lawyers and experts. We're not the only ones who conducted the referendum. I don't know what's wrong with conducting a referendum. I don't know how the rights of members of the national minorities of Albanians in Serbia will be threatened by more or less selecting someone as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The rights of members of the Albanian minority are guaranteed by the constitution as well as any minority. No non-Serb citizen should be discriminated against because he is not a Serb. But no Serb in Serbia should be discriminated against because he is a Serb, even if he lives in Presevo and in your so-called. The Presevo Valley, which certainly won't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u403	Mr. Ceda Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u404	Mrs. Vukic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this day has marked the most frequently pointless debate over Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure. That nonsense can be characteristic of most parliamentary groups. But this senseless relationship must be strongly condemned at the moment when it is directed towards representatives of national communities, minorities, and especially when it is directed towards citizens of Albanians who have their political representatives in this republic's parliament. The Presevo Valley won't go away. We will protect everyone's right to, in accordance with our own political interests by respecting the laws and institutions of this country, make their rights come true. It has already been threatened several times with assembly speakers to representatives of Albanians and minorities. It is not a language that can pass without comment and it must not be a rule that will establish this assembly of the Republic's parliament. We do not want that spoken in Pristina to Kosovo Serbs. And if we are looking for this right for ourselves in Kosovo, it must be given here in Belgrade and guaranteed to representatives of Albanians from southern Serbia. It is not enough to apologize, but we guarantee Mr. Halimi that at any moment he will be able to represent his political views freely, that he will be able to realise the political interests of the citizens he represents, and that we do not see the purpose of this session in proving the power of the parliamentary majority that we are counting on, because it is not there. The purpose of this session is, above all, to encourage citizens of Serbia who will give us political support in the elections we expect in 30 to 60 days. But I don't think even in the interest of the candidate for Parliament President, Mr Nikolic, and most of the parliamentary parties are not the language we had the opportunity to hear, Mr Dacic, in your last replica. Please take care of that. You can refer anything to the Democratic Party, the Liberal-Democratic Party. I am not saying that we answer in the same way to you, but full respect, full respect and a completely different language and tone must be present in every dialogue with representatives of national communities, minorities, especially Albanians in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u405	Thank you. Ivica Dacic [[Comment in the presidency that he does not have the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u406	I answer to Cedi Jovanovic, not Rizi Halimi. No problem, I'll answer one and the other. I thought Chad was representing Riza, but I can answer one and the other. I don't know how I offended any members of the national minority, Mr. Jovanovic. How? Is it because I said that it must respect this state and that it is called Presevo Valley the separatist concept that occurred at the time when, I think, you were the head of the DOS parliamentary group. I was a man who was a member of the South Serbian Committee, which was then formed by the Interim Government, at a session held in Bujanovac. There was also the late Zoran Djindjic, and Vojislav Kostunica, Riza Halimi. There was talk of Presevo Valley. What Presevo Valley? Here, Milan Nikolic is from Vranja, that he has only ever heard the expression Presevo Valley be used somewhere, except when it is said that Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo will sometimes make Presevo Valley a new form of separatism in southern Serbia. Don't talk about us insulting. Have you spoken to me or to those of you who should hear what you say? If you were talking to them, okay, if you were telling me, no need. Well, at the time of our government, Riza Halimi has been president of the municipality for ten years. What's wrong with him? So I have no reason to apologize to anyone and I won't apologize to anyone. I didn't insult anyone. I said he shouldn't miss anything because he's not a Serb. And you know why? He must not miss them, because it is very risky for a Serb, for example, in Zagreb or Sarajevo, to be no longer present in Pristina, to declare in their parliament that he accepts a plan to create Republika Srpska, as Riza Halimi said here about accepting Marty Ahtisaari's plan on independent Kosovo and Metohija. Still, he must not miss anything in Serbia because he is not a Serb. But, please, no Serb living in Presevo should miss anything here because he is a Serb because this is the state of Serbia and should defend all citizens of this country, I agree. I know you're a coalition that spoke to national minorities. If that's directed at them, I don't mind. If I'm being directed, I don't think you had any reason to, I didn't speak hate language at all. On the contrary, we have not been in power here for seven years, I hope that in Serbia there is a brotherhood and unity, and I hope that international relations are so good and strong in these seven years that surely one of my speeches cannot disrupt them. And Riza Halimi and I will, of course, continue to persecute ourselves. I was not talking about the disappearance of the Presevo Valley in the sense that the Albanians would disappear, but the Presevo Valley from the political dictionary as an announcement of the future secession of that part of Serbian territory. It wasn't me, Riza, hiding guns in the vicinity of your Preshev, but members of your Bujanovac Liberation Army, Bear and Preshev. I'm not the chief or director of the BIE. That was also at the time of your authority, Mr Jovanovic, and at the time of Zoran Zivkovic's government, and at the time of Kostunica's authority. And today, members of these terrorist groups who hide and have hidden weapons warehouses are arrested. What do they need it for? For the peaceful lives of Serbs and Albanians in Presevo, perhaps? I'm sure that's the purpose of those hidden weapons and ammunition warehouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u407	Thank you. Mr. Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u408	I will briefly, since for the second time on this speaker, the same story is that the conflicts down in Presevo Valley were during DOS authorities. In fact, the fact is that on January 26, 2000, when the SPS was in power, they broke out on the day the Sacipi brothers were killed by special police. At their funeral they went public as an armed formation, which at the time tried to defend the doorstep. I can tell you plainly, the heat of the struggle that was in Kosovo at the time was transferred right through the special units that were located in our area. On January 26th, it was the result that I made. It is that it lasted until 20 May 2001. It was resolved through the then government, with co-operation with KFOR in Kosovo. Relatively quickly, within one six months of the establishment of the Coordination Body, the conflict has ended in peace or should I say, a demobilization or demilitarisation contract. It's called the Presevo Valley; I was just talking about the need for decentralisation. If the Pcinian District were a democratic category, it would be given to appoint officials through the government to manage people there, rather than if it were democratic elections, Albanians would have 30% of their MPs. Now they don't have any employees in the Pcinj County, and somewhere there's a population of 30%. That's the result of the SPS government, that discrimination that in the strictest form, even with the grips of apartheid, was at the time. In a conversation with Mr Nikolic, I presented the fact that I lost my job at the Presevo Educational Centre, among other things because I opposed that Serbian teachers received 10% more salary than Albanians. And that was during the rule of the SPS. That's the facts. Who cares about a name that depicts the characteristics of an area? If we're not saying it's the colour of culture and language, it's the wealth. Who wants to limit that fortune? Who does that belong to? It would be normal for any of the people's MPs here to bear in mind that in this way they solve problems that are and how sensitive they are in this area. My discussion absolutely wasn't, I ended up even with that request, we have seven days, it's in the interest of all citizens, even the minority, to achieve this consensus, to start living normally in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u409	Hansel Dacic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u410	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know Mr. Riza Halimi is under the protection of Cedomir Jovanovic, but I must answer him. Using the words here that Serbia has conducted apartheid under any authority is a disgrace to this assembly to respond with silence. It is absolutely incorrect, it is absolutely the opposite of the truth, because if the apartheid were, of course, that today perhaps the Albanian national minority would not even have representatives in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, all villages in which terrorists lie, from Konculj and Trnovec, have Serbian names. Only, ladies and gentlemen, there are no Serbs there anymore. Then who was the apartheid and genocide? Please, no matter what you are a member of the national minority, continue to take care of the controversies and consequences of the expressions you use in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u411	Replica, Srdjan Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u412	I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure that regulates apartheid, but it doesn't matter, since Ivica said he'd do it by the Rules of Procedure. I would just like to ask the Assembly once again, when it comes to national minorities, that we do not talk about national minorities in the context of adjudicating one or another political idea, one or another political party. National minorities are in this parliament to become connective tissue, to strengthen Serbia and to lead Serbia on its way to Europe. Speaking of which, I think Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has accidentally forgotten, but we should not only talk about special status, or as he has already said specifically, when it comes to Albanians. Roma are the most vulnerable social group in Serbia. The Roma, besides Serbs, who have been avoided or internally displaced from Kosovo, are the largest national community that has lost its homes in Kosovo. More than 100,000 Roma have left their homes in Kosovo, some 50,000 have been displaced internally in Serbia, of which 25,000 are listed in UNHCR documents, and the UNHCR document also says that 25,000 Roma are not listed. Some 50,000 Roma are in EU countries, and we cannot, when we talk about special concerns for national communities, place the Roma national community in this order. Let's go back to the president's election now. I think it is incorrect for Tomislav Nikolic to say that this is not an important political issue, so we will choose him because he, or those who will choose him, is a member of the party that has the highest mandate. No, I don't know where that democratic rule says it. I don't know what the first democratic rule is, in general, and in what democratic textbook it says. I know only one democratic rule, that the majority in the Assembly in principle chooses the president of the Assembly from the strongest political party that makes up the parliamentary majority. Therefore, if this is the parliamentary majority, then let us declare it that way, let us make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what we are doing today, and not afterwards to say that the MP of the Roma Party did not want to support the proposal of one party or another because it was painted one way or another. No, but the MP of the Roma Party cannot support it because we are not telling citizens of Serbia honestly what we are doing today. So we need to talk openly about proposals, in the right way to inform citizens of Serbia, and then that we can look for appropriate decisions and the appropriate vote of individuals. In that sense, give people what they need to do to Serbia. Serbia needs a serious open policy, not measuring the strength of political parties in parliament. It will be a time of three months or four years, but, come on, finish the job, the responsibility is on you, and don't put responsibility on those who can't participate in most, so let's just say, they're a little radical, they're a little democratic. No, we are citizens of Serbia, we were elected by the citizens of Serbia and let us all do something for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u413	Thank you. Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u414	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to tell a representative of the Roma Party that it's not nice to tell someone he's lying. I don't expect you to vote for my election, I don't expect you not to vote, you haven't spoken out, but to leave the impression here that you won't vote because we're not telling the truth here tonight, it's already wrong. So I'm telling you the truth, you're not choosing a new government tonight. So, Mr. Shine, you have a choice ahead of you, or you will vote for Mrs. Milosevic or Tomislav Nikolic, and don't make any imaginary argument to justify that you won't vote. It's not your thesis that someone here is lying to you and that they can't tell you that a government is formed, but only a congregation majority. Just the congregation majority. Don't put it into one of the three groups that I've been doing this to tonight, I've been repeating for the fourth or fifth time, so they pretend they don't understand. You don't pretend, you're an intelligent man, you know very well that you can't deceive me. If you want to vote, vote, if you don't have to, but there's no reason why someone's lying to you tonight. I'm not lying to you. You have a choice ahead of you, you choose the president of the assembly, you don't choose the government. If you were choosing a government, I'd tell you that. I don't think I'm getting involved with this kind of talk about the government at all. Our Serbian citizens didn't want enough. If I lost three months and someone came out after me for a pay phone and said, "I gave you the BIA, you gave me the CIA." That's absolutely unserious. Believe me, there's not so much until the assembly's disbandment. You don't choose the government tonight. In this session, you probably won't choose it unless this delay is a sign that it's still being negotiated, which might be the most appropriate thing for me. When I listen to you all day today, I see that many of you don't deserve to be president of their assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u415	The word has Dusan Bajatovic, and let Susana Grubjesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u416	Dear colleagues, I've been reported 16 since 41 and it's obvious that the violation of the Rules of Procedure here is really a mass phenomenon. I've been thinking about keeping a minute of silence or talking for five minutes. I've defined myself to talk for five minutes for purely practical reasons. I see that Mr. Democrats already have the support for my exposure. It's a good thing this session is being held today. My reasons for attending this session and defining myself in the end for what my party has defined, to vote for an SRS candidate as the largest parliamentary group, are simply moral. Is it possible that we, who in previous elections have also been declared by our party structures, and to them this power has been delegated from citizens who have massed out to previous elections, so we represent some kind of political elite, not only that we are not able to put together a government, but we are not able to establish a Parliament either. It's up to 14. If Mrs. Vucic, the chairman, hadn't scheduled this session, we wouldn't have had a chance to establish, people, the Assembly, no matter how we do it tonight. What kind of people are we? Who do we have to answer to? Tadic would have to call 14th election with an explanation that he and Kostunica did not agree. I don't care. Politics is the skill of a possible. All that you have stated, all these principles, all the numbers, all the great democracies fall before that definition. I want something right to tell you, whether someone liked it or not, these technicians drive well, whether they negotiate or not. Let's get in line. So, the first good thing is that tonight the Assembly is going to be established here, whether someone likes it or not. The other thing is the fact that you gentlemen have been negotiating for three and a half months, four months. And it's not true, you've been cohabitating for three and a half years. There's someone here, I apologize to Mr. Jovanovic, he won't like what I mention, but he said well: cohabitation lasts for three and a half years. In those three and a half years, there was no shift in depth, there was no shift in local self-government, there was no shift in the division of boards. We brought the constitution together. And the radicals participated in the constitution. So what, was that good for Serbia? Yes, it is. What's wrong? It is not good that this political elite that sits in this House and those who run parliamentary groups, and not sitting here tonight, have their own plans and have their own interests. What else is there to talk about? Of course, I'll say one more thing about the quality of the political elites. Here tonight we hear again about Slobodan Milosevic, some explain everything to Milosevic, and some, even Zoran Zivkovic, and call him an expert, but I don't understand it, and some Vojislav Kostunica. I'm sorry, and we bear responsibility, and we who were in the previous parliament, both in federal and in the republican parliament. Since 1990 there have been various co-operations, various conversations, in various co-habitations there have been Milosevic, and Djindjic, and Vuk Draskovic, and Vojislav Seselj, and many others, and that is the truth about us. Next, I'm listening here for different reasons. Let's try it as a political elite to define what problems are in front of this parliament and the future government if we had formed it, we could all count, let's try it in some order. What did we do in the privatisation project? Not only is privatisation socially unfair, it was economically inefficient and it represents one, in my opinion, a failed social project. The purpose of privatisation was not to get 10 rich owners of Serbia, but to hire people, to work and to live from their work. Let's move on, there's too much influence, there's one systemic error, an economic lobby on executive power. Is it possible to talk about curbing corruption in Serbian society when we have an installed systemic error. The excessive influence of the executive authority on judicial and legislative authority, and the excessive influence of tycoon structures slightly on the executive power, in the period from the second half of the 1990s to today. So I speak for myself. As a responsible political elite, I guess we should think about it. Here's an example from practice. Is the Law on Local Self-Government Good? It's not. He was bad for political practice in Serbia and was bad for the development of local self-government. We need to change it. Was that part of the conversation of the new government I don't know, but I know we should have changed it. Mr. Djelic doesn't have 11 million, he's got five and a half, it doesn't matter, that's what our sources from the National Bank say, that's not true, well, it doesn't matter, I'm kidding, but there's something else: is it a good thing that we have this formed banking oligopoly and this big interest rate, let's be practical here on your ground? There are, I mean, dozens and hundreds of practical issues affecting the citizens of Serbia and we are coming to what may have defined at this point that we can hold some type of DOS brick tonight: a situation related to Kosovo and Metohija, where we are taking 15% of our territory; a situation related to the problem of trying to unify BiH, or repealing Republika Srpska; in Sandzak we have Wahhabi and terrorism, for which we do not know how to respond, and we have an internationalization of so-called. The Duke's question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u417	And we have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u418	The more time goes on, the more I realize that Borka doesn't need to be changed. Just a few sentences. I am absolutely sure that the state of Serbia has one serious problem, a serious problem with the quality of political, economic and cultural elites, and we also need to think about it. The central issue of today, and if I didn't take more time, there'd be a lot of talk, say the DS gentlemen, how we got to this. I'm going to tell you something that you can easily twist, but I'm going to tell you: by selling October 5th, by selling ideas on October 5th, and by betraying the people who supported you. That's what tonight shows. You don't have to like what a socialist is saying, but if I had a little more time, believe me, I'd be happy to give you a lecture on democracy and democratic processes. You've put us in a position so that we can calm our consciences that we can even give you sermons on democracy. Besides, by which you are larger patriots and greater Democrats than any other party that does not contain the name democratic. Do you prefer Serbia, do you know more about this democracy, do you have a monopoly on your way to Europe? You don't, gentlemen, don't be so self-loving. It would be better to be just, to be effective political elites and bring work and justice to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u419	It's time again and thank you. The word is Mrs. Susana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u420	Dear DS and DSS colleagues, do we want to break this farce and agony and give another chance to reason and agreement, or you, dear colleagues from the DSS and New Serbia, join the vote, choose Mr. Tom Nikolic as president of the Assembly, happy, because I fear that the man has already begun to regret what he has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u421	The word is Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u422	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me start by just giving two notes that, I must admit, do not fall into the agenda. First of all, I want to say that I agree with all those fellow MPs, I think there were Mr. Marash and some others, who pointed out that we were violating the Rules of Procedure by talking about everything and everything and not the agenda. I'm not going to spread the story right now, and you know we've been talking about something, not the agenda, and, of course, it's not good. What else, I also want to say, and some MPs have pointed out, you know, we come from different parties and it's normal and it's natural that we can and should think differently. Otherwise, if we all thought the same thing, we'd all belong to the same stranger, but I can't understand, if on some matter with a fellow MP, I don't agree, that I can't express this dissension to one polite dictionary, any argument, if I do, and that we don't create a place out of this Parliament, one arena, where we compete in further, in insulting people, in insulting our insatisfactors, and that, I must admit, some time very rude and inappropriate insult. As Mr. Micunović said, I am giving myself the right to say this precisely because I have never personally and personally offended anyone from the assembly pay phone. Now let me cut to the chase. The DSS, or DSS and NS coalition, has made it very clear, immediately after the elections, that it is ready to take over its share of responsibility in power. This is what the votes we have received and, after all, the purpose of political parties to the elections is, I guess, that they want to win power. I don't see any other point. But, to be clear, the government's problem, it's the problem of all 250 MPs in this assembly or if you want all parliamentary groups in this assembly. Some, Mr Nikolic told us several times, he repeated today, they do not want to enter the government, any government, some others have claimed to want to, but after the last weekend I begin to doubt whether they truly want to. Besides, if we don't laminate a lot over it, there's eight more days of time, and in those seven or eight days it'll all become clear. Either in those seven days we make a government or, according to what the Constitution says, new elections will be called, and we will see, what Mr. Ristic said, there will be every beast showing its mark. As for the constitution of the Assembly, here are various thesis, the most common thesis was the following – you put someone in your mouth that said that the country is not round and then, of course, you begin to explain that the country is round. But these are, though, allowed political petty political pranks, not what's the point. Let's start from the assumption, we have two options. The government is being formed, meaning the assembly majority is being formed, the assembly majority will deal with the issue of Parliament President. If the government is not formed, elections are being debated, but it is good that we have a formed assembly, simply because the Assembly, although there is no mandate to pass the laws, but it can discuss some extremely important state matters. Unfortunately, we live in a country where we have such extraordinary things all the time, at this point I think of Kosovo and Metohija. Here, more of you, accused the DSS of not being honest with what she's saying. I'm going to give you an example that this isn't the first time that the DSS has acted like this and it's right here in this room. Mr. Micunovic was a witness, he was president at the time of the SRJ Assembly, the DSS was in serious opposition at the time, to say, the rest of the DOS and she voted to elect Mr. Boris Tadic as vice-president, because we also had the assessment that the Assembly should work, and of course she couldn't work without the vice president, because it would mean that Mr. Micunovic couldn't leave the hall for half a second. So, this is not the first time that the DSS has in principle advocated the formation of an institution such as the Assembly, especially in view of the state of the country. There is no parliamentary majority, I'm sorry, then it is logical that the president of the assembly for a while, until the government is elected, or the majority is formed, or they discuss and hold new elections, comes from the party with the highest mandate. I'd like that party to be called DSS, but she's called the SRS, and that's all. And finally, I will conclude, I fully agree with Mr Dinkic, the government is not formed for this speaker, but the government is also not formed in Brussels, either in Strasbourg or in any European capital, it is formed in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u423	The word is Mr. Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u424	Dear fellow MPs, it is true that the government is neither formed in Brussels nor in Strasbourg, the government is formed in Belgrade, in the parliament we are in, based on election results. If you are honest about making a government with the DS, then you must be honest to admit that you lost in these elections and that there is not a single democratically developed country in which the prime minister, as I said, remains in the right place, and whoever has more than him and wants to go to the government, must also respect his associates. Mr. Shami, you know it well. There's no hypocrisy, it's just one political fact. Nowhere in the world is different, not in Brussels, not in Strasbourg, not in Germany, not anywhere. What's a fact, it's that this assembly is scheduled for Friday, and you honor that we returned your proposal to you on Saturday. You made a deal on Friday. Not today's election of Tomislav Nikolic is your result of bad negotiations or failed DS negotiations. This is the result of good negotiations with the SRS. That's all the fact we're meeting here today. There's absolutely no other fact. What I don't know, and Serbia will find out very quickly, is whether this is a strategic decision by the DSS to bring the SRS to power, are you aware of what you are doing first of all to the citizens of Serbia who voted for you because of the omens "democratic". But, well, that's your decision, and I'm sure those citizens of Belgrade, who are driving the car with the SRS flags tonight, won't applaud you when you leave this assembly, no matter what you think. You are not theirs; you will be used. Your choice. On the other hand, I must tell you that the SRS has been in a coalition with Milosevic for years. He never allowed them to have the post of parliament president, although they had more ministers than the SPS, i.e. they had the same number of ministers as the SPS and the JUL together. Gentlemen, there is no technical president of Parliament. However, the fact is that Mr Tomislav Nikolic is a technicalian by profession, but promised to graduate from the Law School in Kragujevac by the end of the year, so he may be a graduate lawyer. The fact is, gentlemen, that President of Parliament will have powers of which you too may have a headache. Not to mention, in case the President of the Republic is prevented, he's in charge of the armed forces. A story that bothers you, President Tadic, who was legitimately elected by defeating Mr Nikolic, today you give him a chance to command the armed forces at the small door tomorrow. It's not from Brussels, it's not from Strasbourg, it's your decision, which you'll be facing for as long as tomorrow on your municipal committees, in your cities, with your friends, who you've convinced are part of the democratic bloc. On the other hand, the president of parliament is calling the elections for both the president of the Republic and the local one. Mr Tomislav Nikolic said most were not created here. I don't know how he'll be elected if there isn't a majority, but he said that even this week, and as far as I know on Friday, the budget will be considered and that you will also vote on the budget. So, there are no hideouts behind which you can hide and say -- no, that's all for us to form parliament, so now we're going to have a little budget, so we have a technical government, so we have a technician, although the building, the president of Parliament and Serbia don't see it, and they don't understand anything. On the other hand, you're saying that the political logic is that whoever has the most MPs... He's responding to a dropout from the O.R. Mr. Wolfie, there's no reason for that kind of anxiety. I understand that Mr. Seselj has allowed you to take off those pajamas and look decent today, but let me speak, I haven't interrupted you once. You're saying today that whoever has the majority, or in that coalition that you're making, the one who has the largest number of MPs, deserves to be appointed president. It would be all right if you were principled, so you could also say that in the coalition so-called. The DS democratic bloc has twice as many mandates as the DSS and, on that principle, deserves the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Shami, that would be principled. There's nothing malice about it. I've been talking to you like a man I've known since 1996. Today you decide to give your voice to Tomislav Nikolic, and how much tomorrow we will meet and we will see what kind of problem you and Serbia have made. Representatives of the ethnic coalition say they do not vote in favour of SRS politics, vote in favour of the actions of the SRS. Believe me, actions are much worse than SRS policy. What it says in their programme is nothing compared to what they did to Serbia in the 1990s and what they will do again if you give them a vote. I must say, I am very proud that we have Ms. Milena Milosevic as an opponent. I am convinced that democratic Serbia will absolutely understand that Mrs Milosevic is also better as a candidate, and a woman who is more balanced than Mr Nikolic. Gentlemen, nothing's over yet, you still have a chance to get back. As far as I'm concerned, I'll forgive you, but I'm not sure your voters will forgive you. Gentlemen of the Radicals, what's with the anxiety, what's the big deal? We will meet again in the elections, and I only regret that you did not write in this maester biography of Mr Tomislav Nikolic – lost in the 2004 presidential election to Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u425	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to admit that the only anxiety I see is with MPs of the DS, except I still don't see, "Dear DSS, think about it a little bit more, we've already divided not just cabinets, but also money, and what we're going to do and how we're going to do." Give them a little more power, let's vote for them a little more. Pray a little more, you're not enough. Come out and ask them once more, it's not over yet, just a little more support, a little bit more to rule. To speak to the marshal from Garmispartnerkenkirchen. We have a Duke of Meridian Bank and a marshal from Garmispartikirhen. I don't just know why you're so busy at that marshal's center in Garmispartikirchen. I don't know what's going on out there, right to tell you. There's one thing you need to know. Tonight, Tomislav Nikolic, the candidate of the DS, is not decided in Garmispartekirchen, no matter what you think, is being decided in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and where it is decided in Serbia, and not where the Corporals of Javier Solana decide, there is no chance and that is your key problem. One more thing, when you talk about the SRS and something about Tomislav Nikolic, every time you try to be very smart. You're a lot on the educational level below Tomislav Nikolic, far below. On the other hand, Tomislav Nikolic never faked his diplomas, unlike some others. You'll see tomorrow, it'll be very interesting what people from the BIE who helped people in the democratic bloc gain their diplomas. Tomislav Nikolic was not helped. He lost his mother early and no brother and no father. I supported myself, worked alone, lived alone, and honest and honest, and with my education today he can be proud. And in that, Tomislav Nikolic differs from Solana's Corporal Boris Tadic. One more thing, as you can see, we are ready to wait until any time, I'm glad you noticed that people in Serbia are looking forward to it, because they understand that there is a majority who will vote Tomislav Nikolic tonight, or in the morning, whatever you want. But I must confess one more thing, Boris Tadic, or pardon me, Corporal Solana, did not defeat Tomislav Nikolic in the first round, but when you again kneeled and begged Aligrudic and his men to support you in the second round. But it wasn't Aligrudic himself enough and Kostunica, but Bogoljub Karic had to, and he had to support it so that all together would have some percentage more than Tomislav Nikolic. That's your truth. You will have the complex of the Serbian Radical Party as long as you live because you will never beat us, because it is voted in Serbia, from Piroth to Subotica, from Prepolje to Kikinda, not Garmispartikirhen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u427	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u428	I have to apologize to Mrs. Vucic, as well as other MPs, I have little respect for her age, if we had more respect, it would probably be less replicable. Otherwise, in seven years, how many MPs I've only replicated twice and this is the third time. I must replicate Mr Sutanovac in the following: I agree with him that the coalition Democratic Party of Serbia – New Serbia has lost the elections, but the Democratic Party has lost the elections, and these are the facts. That's the first one. Secondly, you know, when real coalitions are not true at all, all combinations are possible and I can give you examples and examples from European practice who gave the president, who took which ministries, as some parties have held some very important portfolios for decades with 5.5%. You had an example of yourself in Germany, etc. So all these stories fall into the water. And what I really resented to Mr. Sutanovac, he repeated the story again, which I said was present here in the exhibits, claimed that I said that the country was not round and then proved that it was still round. You know, what difference does it make, I found out about the assembly session when other MPs did, and the crisis happened at the end of last week, and it's also familiar. Again, let's not run a story about the government behind this pay phone. Negotiations on the government of the parties are required to be made elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u429	Dusan Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u430	Last time I didn't advertise, I didn't ask for a replica when Vukic said the tough stuff about the president of the Republic, but this is the second time. So there's a psychology of serious theories that explain the way Mr. Vukic brings his views and conclusions here, I mean complexes. It is quite clear that the hatred that comes out comes from all these words is the result of his party's impotence, and of his party's candidate and candidate now running for Parliament's president to give a decent, fair, politically civilized game of victory to Boris Tadic. But I want to thank Mr. Vucic, whenever you say a curse like this about the President of the Republic, whenever you make an insult, whenever you unfairly, unfairly and without proof accuse him, you strengthen Boris Tadic, and that is why you will never beat him in the election. It's a political fact at this point, which will be able to heal all these bad political decisions, one of which is likely to be made tonight. And this attempt to bring Serbia down in its political foundations, set in September's 2000 elections, will be short and temporary. We will see each other quickly in the elections and not being able to beat Boris Tadic will keep Serbia on the path to creating a normal, civilized, democratic and European society.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u431	Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize to Mr Petrovic and Mr Boris Tadic. I cursed and said a terrible word, or syntagma. I said Boris Tadic is Solanine's corporal. That was a terrible thing. I'm sorry. We have a third act tonight. After the Duke of Meridian, this is the one that stole 11m euros, then after the marshals from Garmispartenkirchen, and now we have the archduke of Solana, Boris Tadic. I hope Mr. Dusan Petrovic is pleased now, not a corporal, but a archduke to Mr. Solana, right? Now I think Boris Tadic will be very pleased. If it's a curse, what can I do for you, I expect to be reminded by the chairman of the National Assembly. I don't know what it is in psychology, Mr. Petrovic, but every time you go out to talk, I think here's what he's going to say now, so it's too late to say the word "sir," because I guess Boris Tadic, His Majesty, he's hurt. We of Boris Tadic did not only benefit as a people we did not have, he only humiliated us, destroyed Serbia, urged Serbs to vote to violate their unity nationally, so that 0.16% of people in Kosovo and Metohija would listen to you and no one else. Mr Petrovic, what you're dreaming of, and I don't think it's a psychological problem, I think it's a medical, as well as a hard chair, I think, Mr Petrovic, that you have a problem that you can never get close to a Serbian radical party alone. First you take HDZ with you, then you take SDP, and you put them on the list. You'll get 60,000 votes in the Raski area, you'll get 30,000 more votes in Subotica, then what will lie to B92 in your favor and against us, what other media will do and get 300,000 votes less again, with all the presidential functions. Then what's the problem? Is that a medical or psychological problem, Mr. Petrovic? I don't know, maybe it's medical, maybe psychological. But first of all, I think the problem is that the citizens of Serbia will not have the corporal or the archduke over Solana, but they want people who care about Serbia and the Serbian people, who are Serbia before and above all. That's your problem, that Solana can't vote in the election and that they can't vote those who are out of this country, who bombed her and killed our children. If those who killed little Milica Rakic, little Sanja in Varvarin, could vote, DS wouldn't need HDZ, then would sovereignly defeat DS. Remember, Mr Petrovic, we are not afraid of the forces of Boris Tadic or his boss Javier Solana because, unlike you, we have a higher goal, a much more important goal. The goal we are fighting for is the freedom of Serbia, the freedom of our people, the freedom to have the highest value of a nation and finally achieved. (The President warns the speaker on time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u433	That we have freedom and stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u434	I've seen some hysterical moves now, and you've seen Mrs. Vukic, probably some psychological problem, not medically, I'm counting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u435	It's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u436	I'm informing you, Mr. Vlahovic, as you know, our time is coming, your time is a plus-squamperfect. Better days are coming for Serbia, and the corporal will retire soon, as you like to express yourself, as our people would say, in political retirement. We will provide him with a nice walk in Calemegdan, to play chess with the pensioners, but first to answer for everything he has done for Serbia, for the Serbian people, against our national interests. For Serbia, don't worry, she's in better hands just to get out of yours as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u437	The word is Mr. Milan Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u438	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I just want to let you know it's one hour a night. that most of our citizens, or whoever you're talking to like this, are already asleep. I don't think there's any need to act like this anymore, let's get serious, make up your mind, vote one way or another or not, and let's do some work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u439	Thank you. You see how effective young people are. He has the word Mr. Jovan Damjanovic. He's giving up, all right. The next one is Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u440	It's exactly one and ten right now, and we're discussing 13 hours. But I'm also convinced that if at this point he's not looking at a large number of citizens, which we're going to see the next day, certainly today this assembly and this session has broken the ratings record, because the citizens were certainly expecting this session and wanted to see who would be president of the Assembly and whether a new government would be elected at the end of the line. Since the world and the ages and since parliamentary democracy, power has been divided into judicial, executive and legislative. It is information for possibly those citizens who do not know, but it is also information for some MPs here who persistently but also deliberately interfere with the executive power for the legislative authority. It's important to have all three branches of government. The state cannot function in the way it should and must be if it is not complete and if the executive power is not formed, and if there is no legislative authority there is no legislative authority – then the state is in big trouble. Since 2000, Serbia has been going through various crises and we have had a situation when we were in a blockade and, thanks to the Law on the President of the Republic and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, which demanded that more than 50 per cent come out in the second round, it was not realistic, we had whole election cycles, two or three times we went to elections and failed to elect a president. At the time, Mr. Kostunica received over two million votes, but did not become Serbian president. If he had become, he would have been president with the highest legitimacy ever established. Why didn't that happen? Because the congregation majority did not want it then, did and abused that majority to actually elect the President of the Republic and not come. When the parliamentary majority changed, among the first laws to be amended were the Law on the election of the President of the Republic and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. So we abolished that necessary census, a necessary condition for over 50 percent to come out in the second round. Thanks to these amendments, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic was elected. We didn't do it for ourselves, but we knew then that the institutions of the state had to form. But what you don't understand today and what I want to draw attention to, that the choice of government and government agreement is one thing, and the election of Parliament president is another thing. If there's an agreement and an agreement, it's a compatible matter and when we agree on a government, we'll agree on who's going to be president of the assembly. Today I said so, when the deal is gone and just because it is gone, we are in front of a dilemma whether we are still functioning without the President of the Assembly and without formed assembly bodies. There's a clear answer and consistent, as we've always been, no matter who it is, we're doing it tonight. We believe we must elect the President of Parliament. As I said, it is neither political nor technical matter, but respect is a simple, democratic principle – that when there is no government agreement in the state, the president of the Assembly is from the largest parliamentary group. It is in this case Mr Tomislav Nikolic. There is no representation of any policy, because we simply meet that necessary condition for Serbia to establish its organs. That's how it's gonna be tonight. God forbid, if Serbia goes through and goes through such difficult trials in the future, we will behave in this way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u441	The word is Mrs Gordana Komic. Here, let Amjad Migati be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, the DS parliamentary group will give its vote to Ms Milena Milosevic, a national MP who has experience, reputation and credibility for Parliament's post. All that talk about today, in an unsuccessful attempt to accuse and blame the DS of finding an alibi for something that's legal, which is to make a coalition with whoever you want, because coalition is the consent of will, and everything else where people team up. So, the seat of Parliament president and the need to have an institution is also satisfied with the fact that all votes are also received by Milena Milosevic. On Friday, we were informed that today's session is dedicated to resolving the problem of completing the assembly's constitution. We claimed on April 30th that it was good to have a president or president of the Assembly. We offered and of course there wasn't a majority. We now again offer a candidate who has all the qualities for the president of the Parliament and we do not have a majority, which is the right of all political parties to opt for a candidate or candidate who they consider better. SRS candidate Tomislav Nikolic is, undeniably, the man with probably the longest current experience in this assembly and what is the experience of the third term as a national MP, that Tomislav Nikolic is very rare or almost never wrong about the basic rules that every assembly should require and which this assembly has requested. Today, I think he's wrong about the rules of this house. I think for the first time since I've been sitting with you in this room, looking at people's emotions, I think for the first time in fact I recognize Mr. Nikolic's emotion that he's uncomfortable. I don't see why, he deserves that function if he has the consent of the DSS. The context likely in which the candidate is exposed is what causes the inconvenience of the candidates. The SRS has come across criticism from many parties, criticism from our voters, criticism from various people over its programme, because of what she was doing, because of what she was saying. The SRS has never participated in the usurpation of any government and has never participated in the usurpation of institutions. Currently, I believe that this is the cause of the unpleasantness that Tomislav Nikolic feels, you are taking part in the usurpation of the system of government for which the DSS is responsible, but we all share responsibility. The context in which today's speaker of the assembly is elected, the explanation that the speaker of the assembly is necessary, we have two candidates. So you can vote for Milena Milosevic, if you want, can vote for Tomislav Nikolic. The context in which we elect the President of the Assembly for five days, five months or four years is a context which has a date in 14 July 2006. It is the date when the current shale government lost most of the 126 in the Serbian Parliament. We have a constitutional crisis for a year, especially with the adoption of a new constitution that has not been applied in any of its members. I am sure that Mr Nikolic also knows that by his consent, and his motives are clear, because he believes that this country needs at least another legal institution other than the president of Serbia, he is the only legal institution, except for mayors and local authorities at the local and regional level, but this will be the first time that the SRS has estimated that it can participate in the usurpation of the system of government. The fact that we have a government that without 126 MPs manages all the resources in Serbia, without any control, that we have a government in which two ministers, one foreign affairs, one defences, which are the authorities of the administration, make solutions and decisions that produce consequences on other people, and that they have never been elected in this assembly, the fact that we have that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is made after the constitutional deadline of 31 March, that all spending of public money is illegal and unconstitutional, and that all places of decision-making in Serbia, mainly by the responsibility of the DSS, are completely unclear. You don't know how decisions are made, who makes decisions, or anyone who's almost controlled any sector in the RS government for a year. You will say – then what do you propose to Milena Milosevic? Isn't that part of the usurpation of power? The motives for the proposal in this case are the same as the motives for Tomislav Nikolic's proposal. So we have a constitutional crisis which, my assessment, is so that it can't be solved by the elections. Constitutional crises in countries usually have in elections what's called a split, what's called geometry in which you can gather institutions... (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: Symmetry. )......................................................................................................... People's MPs also get symmetry, symmetry is made, and it looks ridiculously like the coalition itself for the election of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as if we want to make a government that will make both parallels and symmetry, and you can throw as much as you want to, we can talk like this, you guys from the bench, me from the pay phone, and we can also make perceptions of various things. We can't hide another thing that the SRS seems to have done for the first time, which is to demean voters in Serbia. Try to present that this coalition is only for the president of the assembly, and that it is not a coalition for the government, is an attempt that no one in this room believes in and is not trusted by any of us in Serbia. What will happen tomorrow after the election of Tomislav Nikolic remains to be seen, whether there will be a decision to reduce the constitutional crisis, which I hope, because I care that everything that is produced by people of ignorance, passion, haughtiness and hatred, try to reduce their rational approach. The only thing we won't agree to as DS, that these children's games, trying to provoke us from DS to create a picture of our responsibility and guilt for non-forming the government, is the only thing we can't agree to. In 17 years as a political party, we've survived a lot of provocations, a lot of blows, a lot of attacks, like today in this room. Only anyone who wasn't in a hurry, from any MP's group, didn't have to say that something DS was responsible for or that DS was very guilty of. We all had time. We have survived everything, and most tragic of all, the loss of the president, if we have survived, and that is the credibility we will not allow any attempt to blame the DS for the constitutional crisis caused by the DSS, for which the DSS is responsible, to move on to the shoulders of a parliamentary club or DS in general. I want Milena Milosevic, of course, to get 126 votes. Having experience in the Assembly, I want success to the next president of the Assembly and I hope that we understood that, here is Mr Dragan Todorovic not the only one, I am not surprised, it is late, these others understood, so I think we understood that if there is one joint effort, and that is to reduce the enormous damage to the general crisis in which this society and this state live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u443	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, seems to be the first usurper of power in this National Assembly after my esteemed colleague, Komic, who said, at least so I translate, that anyone who voted for Tomislav Nikolic today will be the usurper of power in this National Assembly. Here, now I speak publicly for the United Serbia of the People's Coalition, that the MPs of this party will vote for Tomislav Nikolic. It is our democratic right to vote for a candidate for the president of the National Assembly and for whoever has the largest number of MPs in this House. The people said that in the January 21st elections, whether we like it or not. We liked Tomislav Nikolic or not, but he was given the right to be president, or I hope he gets the right to be president of the National Assembly and the Unique Serbia, I repeat, will give him support. The question arises why so-called. The democratic bloc did not come into talks with 126 MPs to support a candidate from the bloc. It's a question of analysis after this session. We started it yesterday on the second day of Đurđevdan, and today on Mark's day, May 8, we end. I hope that we will end it successfully and elect the president of the National Assembly and hope that after this some people will come to their senses, sit down and agree that Serbia will get the government. Serbia is crying out for the government. Serbia is in an economic, social, political crisis after the January 21st elections. You have to understand, life in Serbia does not take place within a circle of two. Get into Serbia and let's solve it, and go after Serbia a little bit to solve problems in Serbia. A unique Serbia will give you support to solve all these problems. Do not advocate new elections, who will pay for it, Serbian citizens have no money to pay for new elections. That's a lot of money. Let's form a government, so let's take six months, nine months or a year, but we need it. Do not think that the whole mind of this Serbia is concentrated in one party, which thinks it can only lead Serbia on the right path. It can't and it won't happen. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we give support to Mr Tomislav Nikolic and give him a chance to lead this legislative body, and today we choose this afternoon the working bodies and vice-presidents of this assembly, and start to adopt the budget, which is also necessary for this Serbia and to start solving many problems of this Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u444	The word is Mr. Slobodan Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u445	Dear colleagues and colleagues, according to public opinion polls in the last 15 years, Serbia's parliament has been convincing in the last place. This persuasion was confirmed yesterday and tonight by law. Because instead of serving this home for what Serbia needs most, which is an agreement on a vision of its development, to serve for an agreement on what millions of people can start, and yesterday and tonight this house has served more for personal accounts and for certain types of labelling, which have basically nothing to do with the development of Serbia and its progress, have nothing to do with the improvement in Serbia, better standards, higher employment, better wages and less departure from this country. Normally, one party or only those who make up the current majority or minority cannot bear responsibility for it. The government, when we look at it in general, is made up of both the majority and the minorities. Only her responsibilities are different. Of those who have effective opportunities to show where it is and how one state can organize itself. The second question is about the very procedure that we had the opportunity to see in this 15-year election of the National Assembly president. Someone here mentioned that it was not the SPS, at a time when he had a coalition with the Serbian Radical Party and when he gave them half the mandate in the government, did not allow them to have the National Assembly. It's probably for certain technical reasons that are also being repeated today. But it remains unclear from January 94, since the then or former secretary general of the Serbian Radical Party, I think his name is Alexander, but not this present one, said that then Serbian radicals sold four votes to the SPS for 100,000 marks to get their chairman. Depresses to such information by a high-ranking Serbian Radical Party official have not been available to date. It is likely that the candidate for the president of the assembly will respond to that, since in such information, it seems to me, mentioned his name among the four MPs. Unlike you, I have an understanding of the lady, and I want to listen to her, and I don't want to say good-bye to her. But tolerance also has certain limits and it is primarily related to what needs to be done, no, I am not speaking to you personally, but I am speaking in principle and in principle. Tolerance in this home was present only when it was necessary for those who called for their interest or who called for the Constitution when it was favourable for them, not when it was not. That's where we have this conversation we've just heard, that the Democratic Party is looking for a monopoly over certain ministries in the future government. In the current DSS government, which has 50 MPs or had at the time it became one, it has almost all the monopolies in the most important and all the security functions. That's normal. When proposed on this side now by mutual control and division of responsibility in that sphere, it is then called a monopoly. At a time when the Democratic Party of Serbia won its prime minister with so many MPs, however, it went to the presidential elections with its candidate, believing there should be one. There was no principle of shared responsibility at the time. These principles are introduced when ad hoc parties are needed, not to serve as a more lasting value in this House, based on which we can talk both today and tomorrow, and for the next five years. It can establish a higher level of trust between us. That trust has been shaken with various reasons, and I would say not only on one side, but on several sides. If we want to come up with solutions that are really good for the state and if we see that the interests of the party are below it and state above it, then I guess we'll come up with a solution that will be favourable to us and as MPs' clubs. In particular, I would like to stress that the consequences of certain political decisions are so enormous and are normally viewed in the payment of the goods by the citizens. Most often, when wrong political decisions have been made, even from the best intentions, I do not have to doubt any motives at the time of the SPS government with radicals, may it be the best intention for the state to go in the right direction, but the fact that the consequences of these political decisions for Serbia were catastrophic in the economy, in education, in health, in international co-operation, in foreign policy, in the position of this country, in the possibility that its citizens have a better standard, that they have more work to do, that we have a better quality life. This really measures the success of a single policy. That's why today or tonight, or tomorrow, when the decision is made here, it will have far-reaching consequences. So it's important that we think about it, how it can act tomorrow at a higher level of trust between us or make it even less. But with a fundamental goal, citizens are the ones who will measure what we have done. We can say what we want here, we can tell each other anything, but when the time comes to measure in the election, then we'll really see what that really means. Citizens in Serbia at the moment have the right to be dissatisfaction with the government's long-term negotiations, part of failed negotiations on the government, but tonight's and tonight's decisions will show a new dimension, which is a change of policy in Serbia. This change in policy in Serbia can be, from the point of view of potential partners, favourable, we estimate it as bad, as unfavourable, and that is why it is important today to try to wait until tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and to make a cold head decision, to take a good look at all the consequences, not just for our parties, but for the country in general. If we think only of our own parties and that the citizens will know to reward or punish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u446	In order, Mr. Suleyman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u447	Dear Mrs. Vukic, ladies and gentlemen, before I say why we should vote for Mr. Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament Speaker, i.e. The president of this high house, I'd like to address the public for something that happened three months ago. I was very pleased that the SRS proposed me to a delegation that negotiated the mandate and the composition of the new government with Tadic. Knowing that after the election, Tadic said the DS won the election, my distinguished counterpart, Natasa Jovanovic, said it was a lie and that it did not win the DS, but that it received the most votes and the most seats in parliament, and normally that Tadic should give the mandate of the SRS, namely to appoint Mr Tomislav Nikolic for that. He replied that he would talk to his legal advisers, i.e. with those advisers who advised him, both him and the DS, that the mandates should be stolen in parliament and that is one of the reasons why you should vote for Mr Tomislav Nikolic tonight, because he would never allow it, because he is an honest and honest man. A colleague who is allegedly a national minority and said he would vote for the DS candidate can speak for him and for those who voted him and cannot speak for other national minorities in other political parties. I belong to Serbian citizens who are other religions, i.e. I declare myself a Serb Muslim, or Islamic confession, and what I am proud of is that I am a member of the SRS, which is primarily a civil party, a patriotic party and which has its ranks, and I am 17 years in the party, all the national minorities that operate in the SRS. The SRS has more than 100,000 members of its own, I said to members of the national minorities 100,000, you know well that we had a million and 300,000 votes, and I can now say that out of those millions and 300,000 votes, at least 300,000 Serbian citizens who voted for the SRS are other nationalities and religions. Believe that they can't wait, those citizens who are other nationalities and religions, and all of Serbia, that tonight or now in the morning, Mr Tomislav Nikolic is elected president. Mr Tomislav Nikolic will know how to lead this assembly, and with it parliament will be fair and democratic and what is most important will be adhered to by the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which is a guarantee that the Serbian Parliament, led by him, will be as it should be in the service of the people of Serbia. What I am pleased to see today, that you have mentioned today Dr Vojislav Seselj and his book, who reads those books, will see that Serbia should be defended and the patriot of Serbia. What I must say is, Dr Vojislav Seselj will arrive as soon as possible, perhaps even for these elections, and not only will we have the President of the Assembly, but we will also have the President of the Republic, and the President of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u448	The word is Mr. Dragan Šormaz, and let Srdjan Milivojevic prepare himself. Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u450	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know exactly what moment we are in and why we choose the President of the National Assembly this way tonight. Six large lists, plus several lists of national minorities, received votes from Serbian citizens and entered the Serbian Parliament, and here, until tonight, no assembly majority was made in ten to two for the creation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The six lists failed to make an agreement and to form a parliamentary majority for the creation of a new government of the Republic of Serbia. We've heard ourselves that this home has to be reported by a negotiating team. We also know that some of the very influential members of the United Nations Security Council will already propose a new resolution on Kosovo and Metohija during May. Do we, as people’s chosen ones, have the right to keep the National Assembly unconstituted for that purpose? We have no right because the National Assembly has to discuss all this. For this reason, the National Assembly must have its president, its vice presidents and its organs, i.e. elected committees, whether or not a new Government will be formed by the end of the legal period. Until the election of the new National Assembly, if no government is formed, this National Assembly must exercise its constitutional powers. And that's why it has to be established in a legitimate and valid way. Therefore, when no agreement has already been reached, the Democratic Party of Serbia will support Mr Tomislav Nikolic's election as Parliament's president as the party's candidate who won the most votes in the election. By the way, we've heard a lot of good about the opponent here. Some of the arguments were that by choosing Mrs Milosevic, Serbia would surely move faster towards the European Union. That's what it's said here. I'm already a little full of stories from the Democratic Party, and you've deceived Serbian citizens in the election campaign, and I'm going to say now and how, with you Serbia will go faster and faster into the European Union. One of your main arguments was a great friendship with the German state, the German people, Shredder came into the campaign to help you, he gave a speech. A few weeks ago, we experienced that the country's ambassador had sent word to Serbia, if it did not give up Kosovo, that the Raska area, or Sandzak and Vojvodina, would be at stake. If Kosovo gives up, Serbia will have a chance within 20 to 25 years to join the European Union. That's the speed you're offering us from the Democratic Party. It's pointless, we've been faster in the last three years, much faster. That's what all the people in the European institutions, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank said. Now you're going to say yes, they're terminating negotiations with the European Union. That's right. Whether they broke up with Croatia in the same way, for the same reason as Serbia – they did not. What eventually happened – that the man wanted by the Croatian state and the Hague tribunal was arrested in the territory of the European Union, so the negotiations continued. But Serbia did not have the same treatment as Croatia. In Croatia, negotiations have never been interrupted. Why? Only naive people today can argue that, after all that has happened to us, it was not actually designed to destabilize Serbia, to weaken the position of the then and current government of the Republic of Serbia and to force Serbia to accept a decision prepared by some in the international community to make Kosovo and Metohija independent. It's clear to everyone today. Anyone who doesn't want to take it as a political reality shouldn't be involved in politics. We need to say these things openly, however, the European Union is still showing an open view today that it is necessary to accept the Ahtisaari plan, which is the opposite of the decision of all Serbian state authorities. It is my pleasure that they propose that, if it does not pass at the Security Council, the position of the European Union will not be unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank God, it won't go past Ahtisaari's plan or that new resolution announced in May at the Security Council. What else can you from the Democratic Party guarantee that you can take Serbia faster to the European Union? Is this what Solana said today? Did Mr Solana say at the European Parliament's session that it is Mr Tadic who is to control the security services in Serbia? Does that mean Mr. Tadic knows something we don't? We all know that the reason to continue negotiations on the European Union is the arrest of Ratko Mladic. Is it possible that Mr. Tadic, as commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army, and thus intelligence services in the military, knows the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic, so he did not inform those who should be informed of his location, that he would be arrested and detained by The Hague tribunal. Somewhere I remember that when you were in power, and one of the ministers, were you in the federal government, Mr. Tadic, holding a demonstration, you were taking the police out on the street, so that one of the Hague indictees would not be delivered. How do we know that even now you don't know something like that and that even now maybe you're not hiding someone who's accused? That's when you tried to protect one. You cut off the negotiations a few days ago with the Democratic Party of Serbia and that is a fact, and you have returned them to the beginning, with an unacceptable proposal. So we ask them why? I listed: Cobel, Solana – something's going on. He is not responding to someone who wants to destabilise Serbia's strong Prime Minister in Serbia. Apparently, it's someone who wants to destabilise Serbia, that it's weak, and that it takes 15% of our territory, not a strong Prime Minister. You are trying in every way to agree to Vojislav Kostunica as Prime Minister, but in fact to be only the Prime Minister on paper without any influence on the country's executive power. That's why you spend all your time minimating negotiations on forming a government with the Democratic Party of Serbia, because it's obvious that someone won't let you make a government with the Democratic Party of Serbia. You have an obvious new leader, because the policy you are now leading and that you do not want with the Democratic Party of Serbia to make a government, and the same ones you listen to so that you do not create a government with the Democratic Party of Serbia, are the same ones who helped the previous months one of the list that entered the LDP list. Today you have fully followed Cedomir Jovanovic in everything and you have shown that Cedomir Jovanovic has actually become the leader of the Democratic Party again, not Boris Tadic. Even with that absurd explanation that the second item of the agenda is not finished. My people, so what if we went to the third point right then, if we had already agreed on forming a government and we'd gone straight to the third point, if we'd listened to the report. So it was absurd what you did, but obviously you have to do everything that Cedomir Jovanovic does in Serbia, only, unfortunately, you and Chad will never have 126 MPs to form such a government as your employers want you to form.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u451	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, chairman, I am advertising the violation of Article 103, so the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. We had a speaker here who talked about the results of the government, and I'd like to mention some more results, so: National Savings, "coffer", Papurna, "Knjiz", "Putnik", "Borka", "Culce", Legion, Topcider, Index, Darwin, Sarančić, cart; should we do more?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u452	Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u453	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the distinguished representatives of public information funds, respected citizens of Serbia, here I have a book shown today by Mr Dusan Petrovic, who bears the title, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for having to quote the name of this book, where he says: "Political partner of the Kurve del Ponte and the Kurve del Kostunica", author Vojislav Seselj. Of course, now I'm going to read you what you gentlemen from the Democratic Party of Serbia are going to raise your hand for today. He says: “It may be that the fraud of Vojislav Kostunica would have gone undetected that there are no books of Professor Vojislav Seselj. It contains everything, everything, both public and secret partners, and public and secret betrayals of Serbia." It was signed by this lady, the Belief of Radeta. You will now vote for her representative, who has such a nice view of you from the Democratic Party of Serbia. Why are you nervous? Look what Toma Nikolic looks like, he's out of his mind, he's afraid to say Vojislav Kostunica now, I've changed my mind, don't vote for him. And he draws you with his hands and feet, lest you answer for a line, and you keep throwing it away. Don't get soft, stay calm, wait a minute and you'll hear everything. You gave us Mr Tomislav Nikolic's biography here. I'm reading some other books. There is a book by Alexander Popovic, not this one by Alexander Popovic, and one by Alexander Popovic wrote "The Development Path of Bora Šnaider". Now you ask me what is the resemblance between Bora Schneider and Tom Nikolic. Both were taking measures for the people, only Bora Schneider, and Tom Nikolic for the dead. Now the development path of Tom Nikolic. Toma Nikolic, he says, was born at the 52nd meeting in Kragujevac, it's okay, a student, doesn't write it here, the first 20 years he's been having a hard time, now that he's president of the Assembly, he'll do even better. Since January 23, 91, a member of the SRS (please call security to remove a mirror from this part, something to shout at monkeys, a mirror to stand there), does not say that he had previously waved with the American flag in front of the American embassy and supported the American people in a fair fight against Iraq. They forgot to write that. He says here that Toma Nikolic is an appropriate radical. Everybody takes it as an example, no one for real. He's a credited citizen of this country, responsible for sanctions, isolation, poverty, war destruction. As a child, he dreamed of becoming president and guarding Serbia, even though he could not keep three sheep drawn. Sometimes he dreams of Lazarus, so Lazarus asks him, does the White Church have a self-respect where I honored the army? Sanja and Milutina, he asks him where the Church of Gracanica is, where is the monastery of the Peèka Patriarchy. He came to him in sleep, and to St John, and to the Holy King of Decan, and asked him, "Where are the children's monasteries?" And you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who are dealing with politics in principle "and I am full and sheep in number", the wolf said by eating a shepherd, now you will vote for it. Of course, there's a lot more detail here in his biography. Because when he answered the word today, Tomislav Nikolic, he says, so don't touch the SRS, touch me. Wait, Mr. Nikolic, are you a candidate of a group of citizens, a hunter's association from Cuba or an SRS candidate? The SRS responsible for the bombing. One of the SRS, during whose power Slavko Curuvija was killed. One of the SRS during whose authorities Ivan Stambolic was killed. The SRS that celebrated the bombing by singing and dancing on the bridges. One of the SRS that's today calling for a bridge bombing in Barbarian. Do you know how famous NATO troops have been to enter Kosovo on your part? You organized fireworks in Kruševec, until we knew where 15,000 of our Kruševićs were, shame on you. Today I hear here from the SRS, from their representatives, they say – bastards for us, they say – scum for us. You're villains, it's a name for you. They say today jaundice is a disease of dirty hands, and you know what you get from a rusty spoon? Sepsis, blood poisoning, and it's not being treated, it's dying. The jaundice heals. Today you don't have to wrinkle anymore, you're not the subject, the theme is the Dremamo gentlemen we're sleeping with, we're dreaming of parties from the Democratic Party of Serbia. You're voting for them today. You should go back to Cachak today, to Kruševac, to Smederevo and tell your fellow citizens how you could raise your hand for them. I call upon you, it's much easier to raise your head than your hand. It's much easier to think about who you're voting for, what opinions they have on you. What will you say in Chačka when you get there to those people you led against this policy on October 5th? You're making a coalition today, not with people, with a value system, with politics. These are the points of merger between the Democratic Party of Serbia and the SRS. That's what brings us together. You don't want to change Serbia. You say you'll restore Serbia. How will you from the SRS restore Serbia? I can see already, the old forgotten crafts are being restored: Abadji, locksmith, Shusterian, Gresserian, the memory of the old good "smederjevac" is being restored, the ranks for sugar, zeythin, gasoline are being restored, the division of the world is being restored, the big block of two superpowers is being restored -- Serbia, Iraq, Belarus, Cuba -- which will rekindle the fallen planet. Today I had a chance to see the representatives of the SRS say – your President Tadic. You have someone else's president, I understand that. Your president is Bill Clinton. You gave him Kosovo. Your president may be someone else from the west. Your president is certainly not Boris Tadic. Because the country of Serbia is obviously not your country, you have a spare country. I don't understand how you can call it patriotism and not admit to Mr. Boris Tadic, and call him the Corporal of Javier Solana. And that's what the NATO cavalry unit says, where you don't know who the horse is and who the rider is. You're a horse. Of course, I see here the wisdom of the Dalai Lama from you. You forgot that until seven years ago you were in power and now you say – here, that's what foreign mercenaries and spies do. I understand, it's your vocabulary, but I don't understand you from the Democratic Party of Serbia. Mr. Milos Aligrudic, again not in the O.R., probably taking a run from Slavija, just before catching a run from the front row to report to Dusan Petrovic, now probably from Slavija, he says – you know, you're foreign spies and foreign mercenaries, and you get warrants from the West. The only one who gets warrants from the West is the SRS, and their boss is in the westernmost city, in The Hague, and these are orders from the West. Don't do that vocabulary, it's already outdone vocabulary. It's not like the DSS, it's a conditional reflex that you've developed by hanging out with the SPS, and now with the SRS. However, the conditional reflexes come from a small brain. You have to use a big brain, politically think, and see who you're going into a coalition with, and who you're sharing a system of values with. Because today, the real coalition around the value system, about the future government and you DSS gentlemen, I am talking to you, and you from New Serbia, I am talking to you, who are going to vote for this coalition, you from the SPS, you really don't need me to talk to you, they're going to dump you when they don't need you, but I'm talking to you, think again about which value system you're making a coalition about which political goals. Don't pretend this is a technical coalition and you're doing this for the sake of higher state interests. You're doing this because you see power as a privilege set and you want to keep it. I call upon you, for it is much easier to raise your head than your hand and not vote for this, but for Milena Milosevic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u454	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u455	Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose it's normal working hours I wouldn't say what I'm about to say, but my predecessor performed just like this. After the election, you won't hear me comment on what the MPs say, but this was too much. These are the kind of vets that let blood out. After 35 years of work, 15 years of parliamentary service, when truly none of the MPs could say a word to me, he experienced some kind of entity showing up in the Assembly that would tell me something. [[Laughter and applause of SRS MPs]] If it wasn't for that Boris Tadic if you saw the Assembly? You've spread 20 minutes of hate here, what you haven't told the MPs of the SRS, and tomorrow you'd jump to arrest us for speaking of SRS hate. Take the stenogram, all that you said, you said to me, Tomislav Nikolic. For you, I am the term of the People's Messenger. I will enter legends in the Assembly, I have 10 books of stenographic notes only of what I said in the Assembly, and you've gotten the first chance to attack me. You think that's how you become a great MP. No, they may applaud you once more, and when they differ, they will say, "Look! She is our fool what she did to herself tonight." Because that's how it works. In our parliamentary group, he wouldn't have kept it that way for two days. [[Applause radically.]] Here, ask them. And every one of them would say to him, "Is he a fool, what you were doing last night?" I wish you were drunk. I would have found that excuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u456	Mr. Miodrag Djidić has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u457	I understand the nervousness, perhaps Vojislav Kostunica will change his mind and say: we will not vote for you. If the cameras get a better shot of Tomislav Nikolic, you'll notice how he sat down from this morning to tonight with the fear of having to change his mind about the DSS. Tell him if you change your mind or vote for him anyway. It's time for you to say it not for him, but for Serbia. Serbia asked you that during a December and January campaign. We asked you if you would support the SRS, you kept your mouth shut, and you wouldn't answer. You hid, and you didn't want to look into the eyes of either the democratic public, or the citizens of Serbia, or your voters. You will have to, after this vote in the Assembly, after these selected words addressed to me by the SRS, where I was cursed, but it speaks of them, not of me, to tell your voters – is that the system of values you stand for, which you propagate, and is that the policy in Serbia that you are going to implement?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u458	Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, Toma Nikolic had to, first of all, protect the ladies. I don't know where you live. Did you find a funny man who spoke to women here many times to soft, and then he said the most terrifying expressions about not knowing who was the horse and who was the rider? I'm not going to answer that way, nor do I think I'm going to answer you in such hard words. Solana doesn't know these guys, he sends them to the pharmacy right now or to an even better place. This is the order of Solana's corporal. I just have one thing to say, and I'm done, because talking to this is pointless, answering or anything to talk about, a man is the same thing to ask for medication if he's involved with it. But he mentioned some trades, so he said locksmiths, Abadjis, etc. I call, as he speaks with that language, all the troubles in Serbia are to come and help him, because there is only salvation in them. There's no other cure here or there can be one.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u460	Dusan Petrovic. He's giving up. Zeljko Tomic has a word. He's giving up. Alexander Vlahovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Chairman, tonight I will not talk about what my colleagues were talking about – back to the value system as we know it and remember until October 5th and the one that was designed to build up since the spring of 2004, however, I cannot help but notice that I am truly fond of the efforts, especially the DSS-NS coalition, that a couple of excels issue is declared a technical matter. So today, the election of Parliament President and the proposal of a joint candidate coming from the SRS justify the fact that no agreement could be reached on the formation of a new government and that, as a consequence, we must elect the President of Parliament five days before the deadline expires for this parliament, before it is formed, or does not form a government until, if I am not mistaken, Monday, 14 May. It is difficult to accept such an explanation, and I cannot repeat in the days what my colleagues said that, when it comes to the political issue, what has a clear political coalition behind it and we are witnessing the construction and birth of a new political coalition between the DSS and the SRS. It is a perfectly legitimate thing and the legitimate right of every political party to choose with whom it will go into a political coalition, but it would be at least fair for both sides, and above all the DSS, to turn to citizens and to say how much it is and what the price of forming such a political coalition looks like. In the early 1990s, we had appropriate political goals that formed the political coalition. The only problem is that these targets did not have a clear price for citizens, how much will it cost to realise the goals set by the political coalition at the time. What's the price of a political coalition in sight? I will try to explain this from the point of view of a very important document, adopted last year by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a document relating to the national economy development strategy of Serbia. In this development strategy, the authors of the strategy and the executive authority made it very clear that Serbia's EU accession deadlines were very clear. The deadline is by 2012, and by then the average rate of GDP growth of 7% must be achieved. In order to achieve the average growth rate from 7% to 2012 and to prepare Serbia for EU entry, an adequate, required level of foreign direct investment is needed. This level of foreign direct investment is $3.6 billion a year. As things stand, in this year we will only have maybe a sixth of what was achieved in 2006. As things stand, and as messages from the world come to us, as much as we don't like those messages, we gentlemen will be left without direct foreign investment, which means new jobs for our country. You've heard very clear messages from our European friends. European friends do not view the bright economic perspective and future of this country as being built by the coalition with those political forces that are and whose rule characterized the 1990s, the year of destruction. I therefore really call on all Members of Parliament, therefore, to use very carefully and in a very careful way the words and qualifications, first of all, of our friendly countries in the EU. Because I will remind you, at this point thanks to foreign direct investment, which has come through privatisation or through direct greenfield investments, 200,000 jobs in Serbia exist. The withdrawal of foreign investors from Serbia will mean the immediate absence of 200,000 people without a job, and this can happen if the country slips back into economic isolation. I will not say what this political coalition will mean and how much this political coalition will cost to the current macroeconomic balance and whether, in view of the messages that have come to us during today, adoption of the budget will adopt an amendment that means, among other things, raising public spending, whether this political coalition will be able to reduce public spending by five percentage points of gross social product. Of course not. What does that mean for Serbian citizens? I'm not telling you this, I'm telling the citizens of Serbia. This means reintroducing Serbia into economic destabilisation. This means the economic downturn or at least the economic stalemate. Do Serbian citizens deserve to pay such a price? Again, after a huge price paid thanks to political delusions and unrealistic political projects during the 1990s, certainly not. At the very least, my dear DSS and NS gentlemen, you must tell the citizens what the price of this is for you technical project, or technical decisions, the essential political coalition that is in sight. Because if that happens, it certainly will take a long time, and I believe it's the only positive thing, and I would say the positive effect of this decision will simplify the political scene. We are going slowly towards a bipolar political scene in Serbia, with the difference that on that political scene there will be DS, with its sister parties, which belong to the same political bloc, and on the other hand in the near future, I do not see the DSS, which will be the headquarters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u462	The word is Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u463	This discussion has shown, I would say, the fate of the division that exists in our political sphere. I think Mr. Vlahovic, who spoke earlier, is quite right. We're going to the bipolar political scene. That is not so bad in the longer term, but it is a fact that the political coalition that is now forming will certainly leave consequences for the same longer term for the citizens of Serbia. But there's nothing we can do about it. Normally, we have to respect the numbers, the mathematics that rules in parliament. The DSS made that decision. Some of us suspected it would happen in the election campaign. Unfortunately, that really happened. Until the last day, we tried and believed it was possible to build a government that would continue Serbia's European path. Unfortunately, today we are aware that this is no longer possible. We are very, very, very sorry, because we are deeply convinced that the only way for Serbia is the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. What I would like to propose on behalf of the DS at the very end, and I think that would be important, and I assume that the candidates themselves, Mrs Milena Milosevic and Mr Tomislav Nikolic, are expecting the vote on the election of Parliament president to be public. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly predicted that it would be a roll call. We hope you will adopt this proposal. Just let everyone stand behind their candidate. I don't think it's too controversial for us from the DS either, we'll be behind Milena Milosevic, we've been growing the same policy for 17 years. I don't care about the SRS either. They have their own politics, their faith in which they believe, I respect that, but of course I disagree with that, with those ideas. It's a dispute for you DSS colleagues, how you'll vote by name and last name for that policy, against which you were against until yesterday, but we'll see what a new day bears. I would only ask that you honor this wish, the request, the principle, and that's to make the vote public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u464	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Reverend Mrs. Vukic, I was free during this constructive discussion to review reports that appeared on world agencies and to see what the world is saying about us as we speak here, more or less, to each other. All in all, the fact is that it is mostly all about the difficulty of continuing negotiations in the EU, that there is no situation in Europe where secret services are in this position of non-control and where they correspond exclusively to the prime minister and to no other body, except indirectly to the assembly committees, and only once. The EU, according to EU representatives, must have a clear situation to continue co-operation with Serbia. On the other hand, the stock market says that out of 44 shares in continuous trading, nine shares are with a rise in price, for them eight remain the same price, while as many as 27 with a drop in price. It all happened while we were sitting in this room. Almost all bank shares listed in the Belgrade Stock Exchange fell: The Bank of Commerce 12%, AIK Bank 9%, Agrobank 2.35%, Metalsbank 2.5%, Jubmes Bank 1%. I am very happy that the ulcer has broken and that we will finally be in a position for Serbia to begin to heal. Of course, whenever a gnawed wound opens up, and the government in which Vojislav Kostunica chaired it has certainly been a gnawed wound on Serbia's body, since it's now broken and it's all clear, and now that it's all clear, I am happy to congratulate Mr Nikolic in advance on the election for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm happy to finally have a clean picture in Serbia. I'd like to speak to Miss Natasha Jovanovic. You have charmingly shown Cuba, but I must remind you that Cuba is a country where Internet use is banned, where vehicles are mostly over 50 years old, and the population has two and a half times lower national income than Serbia. That's why she's free. That's right. This concept of freedom has been our privilege and pleasure to enjoy 50 years of communism in Serbia. It is clear to me that the SPS, which has been building its development from socialism, communism to nationalism, has found its mirror in the SRS, which has gone from nationalist approach to socialistism. The circle is closed and we're moving again. I'm happy about that. I congratulate you on this, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to do all that we have promised voters, the lustration, that we will do so that all those responsible for the evils that have been happening in Serbia and in the premises of the former Yugoslavia are responsible for all criminals being extradited to The Hague and that this shameful episode of this country, called the government of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, will also end. Cheers and congratulations again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u466	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u467	Madam Vucic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not looking forward to this outcome of today's session of the Republic's Parliament, but I am not surprised by the political outcome of which we are now present. I would once again say why we find it absolutely unacceptable, not only to vote and name Tomislav Nikolic as President of the Republic of Parliament, but also to lead the debate. The National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly is represented by its president. We heard several of the most important motives for support provided by Tomislav Nikolic's candidacy. It has been said that this support and the election of Parliament's president at this point is a proof of the seriousness of our country. I will not remind you that support is being provided to the representative of that policy that has offered Serbian citizens the state as the biggest and most serious threat. Support has been said to be provided for Kosovo's defence purposes. I don't think I should remind you that support is being provided to the representative of the policy under which and because of which Serbia lost Kosovo, and I am sure that this supported Serbia will face a devastating fact that it makes Serbs practically lose the opportunity to stay alive in Kosovo, regardless of all your intentions. Support has been said to be provided for defence of democratic principles. You cannot be a man who is the expression of a policy that is the negation of democracy that leads to such a significant political function. A person who was one of the policymakers who arrested 40,000 young people in Serbia in the year of our last joint political performance, that it was a representative of the politics that was being dealt with with by the media in Serbia brutally asphyxiating their independence and freedom, reporting and speaking; that it was a representative of that policy that led our country to the International Court of Justice in The Hague indictee; that it was a candidate for the president of our Republic's parliament whose biography was a failure. Namely, this prestigious title of the Chetnik Duke has been left out. We live in a democratic republic, and this democratic republic must not and will not be symbolized by the Chetnik dukes, nor will our parliamentary group agree to provide in any way and that the legitimacy of that policy that begins to be affirmed throughout a series of totally unacceptable political principles set up by supporting Tomislav Nikolic as a candidate for the President of the Republic of Parliament. That's why we don't want to be part of the presidency of such a constitutional parliament. We do not agree, nor will we run for vice-presidential positions, and will most decisively boycott the work of all the assembly committees, because these committees are not being established just as the presidents who are not elected to change, but rather, in order to stifle any idea of change, its democratisation, modernisation and reform in Serbia. Is there an alternative? Yes, she exists, but unfortunately, friends from DS you didn't offer her. We said we'd support your candidate, not just today, we did it yesterday, we did it a month ago, we're doing it for the past three and a half years. Giving support to your candidate for President of the Republic of Parliament is not an indication of the alternative that Serbia needs today. That alternative is on the other side of which you have not clearly turned at this time. We are ready to accept the hand provided by Mr Vlahovic, with the announcement of some new political divisions in Serbia, I would say those who are ideally needed and who are characteristic of our society, if not of the policy that has estranged from that society. But we still don't know what your political concept is, because besides that message you sent, you sent some others. You need time, because you hope that some heads will cool off, and Serbia has lost its time. You still believe in the possibility of an agreement with the DSS, although you yourself believe that the possibility of the agreement is significantly lower because of the election of Tomislav Nikolic as President of the Republic of Parliament. It's a bad policy and it's not a policy where you can come across our understanding. You seek support in the people, in the citizens, not in Kostunica. When you talk about October 5th, don't forget that he wasn't the man who realized that October 5th with us, that it was the person who came up with that October 5th and don't repeat that mistake we repeated, believing that it was possible for us to achieve our political goals by means of different means. That's not possible. He revived Milosevic's system of values, and this system of values takes the right to a normal life for every man living in this country, and for those who support us, and for those who will march the lines of fronts against us by people who define today a new, dominant policy in Serbia. We will give our support to your candidate for President of the Republic of Parliament. Not because we know that this is how we will reach the democratic speaker of parliament. Not because we want to show you some kind of loyalty and support, but because we think it's the clearest way to further commit you to your voters and to those people we've disappointed so many times. We can do nothing more than give another hand to DS and your president, and the only representative of the legitimate government in Serbia. But we expect you not to allow the formation of a government, in which there will be a policy symbolized by Vojislav Kostunica, but to allow us together to organise new elections in Serbia, on which Serbian citizens would be entitled to declare what they could not declare on January 21st. That choice will be legitimate and we will respect that choice. What we are facing today is not what we can respect and is not what we agree to. This is not the defeat of democracy in Serbia, this is the defeat of one delusion, and we share the feeling of Nenad Chanka with which he grew up. I am glad that at last everyone in this House can say what we have said so many times, which can stand behind one political idea, without any need for that political stance to benefit anyone in general, because it is generally used in all of this that has been going on for the past 15 hours in this House. There are party benefits, there are personal benefits, but Serbia today was not a subject that was thought of when it was so often spoken of.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u468	Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u469	Unfortunately, after a speech of this kind, my time as head of the parliamentary group must end up using it the next way. So what today's debate has shown is the birth of one re-love between the two groups here, on one side of the LDP and DS, which is not only simple love, but it is seen that there is an avant-garde political Democratic Party, which sits on their left side and looks at mine and that so much is missing that DS gets its new president in the image of Cedomir Jovanovic. There's no difference between you gentlemen. What Mr Cedomir Jovanovic just said at the expense of the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, speaking of the roles and changes of the famous October 5th and the reaffirming of a Milosevic regime, can be sublimated very briefly on my part. First and foremost, none of you would have had any authority, never at DOS times, if it hadn't been for Vojislav Kostunica's victory in the 24 September 2000 presidential elections. The second thing, what you call treason on October 5th comes down to the next. Your idea of October 5th would consist of hanging from terraces and blood flowing in the streets. The way part of the DOS, led by those you represent, Mr Jovanovic, at the time wanted to work, were incursions to companies, it was the establishment of forced administrations, crisis headquarters and various other wonders. When we asked you to stop doing that, then it was probably a betrayal of the revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, we were never prepared to carry out the revolution, but we were prepared to beat one regime at that time, whose members and members sit here today and are part of this system, because if they are not and if they are not here today, then it was also good at the time of the Constitutional Court to make a decision on their ban, that they complain and that the procedure is in motion and that this thing is going. These people today are elected MPs on their lists and we cannot define members of political parties in Serbia as positive and negative or as desirable and undesirable. We can only be on one and the other political ideas. What Mr. Vlahovic said before you, although I disagree with 99%, in one thing it is right, it is a matter of political view, but we cannot disqualify each other in such a way. On the one hand, there is a kind of spin, which lasts all day, that one principled position of the DSS when it comes to supporting a candidate for the president of the assembly, contrary to one totally unprincipled position of the candidate's planting several weeks ago, although it was known that there was no agreement on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And let me remind you of one more thing when it comes to what is a principled attitude. Mr Jovanovic, and for this I have witnesses who are here alive, healthy and present, at the meeting of the past who we had in that building of the National Assembly, when we discussed on the subject of a possible meeting of the Assembly for Election of Presidents, when we were faced the next day after that meeting with a formal proposal to be Mrs Milena Milosevic, at that meeting you said that if there was no other candidate, I admit it was a sentence, it was not a sentence of dilemma between two, but if there was no other candidate, and everyone agreed that it would be even Tomislav Nikolic, that you would give him a vote. That's right. That's what you said. I'm saying now you're gonna say it's not the same situation. So much for talking about principles. It's possible to set a principle by which it's possible to choose this man, and then it falls into the water that you've been talking about today. You made us laugh, bullied us one way or another all day. A little more political principles and consistency wouldn't be offensive to you, but I can't ask you to do that. It suits me to be inconclusive and inconsistencies. It suits me to say what you're saying, because it's a political point for my party, and you grab that electoral body if you can do it that way. What I'm no longer sorry for tonight is that there's going to be a merger between your two wings, one of the ultra-left wings that you represent and one of the moderately left ones represented by these people sitting here making DS. That's what I wish you success. Unlike someone else who congratulated you here, I congratulate you on the political-avangardic leadership of DS by Cedomir Jovanovic, who will soon follow, and then simple things will be settled very quickly and resolved. As for what's been proposed here and the course you're up against, there was only one way here and there was still to prove that course, let's form the government of the Republic of Serbia, let's do it. Don't lay any cowardly eggs. What difference does the election of a National Assembly president have to do with anything we've talked about here?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u470	Alexander Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as deputy head of Parliament, I've never had a presentation before, but I'm just asking for a little attention. So, we're fed up with funny comments, brilliant thoughts, lessons and sermons that keep us the worst not in Serbia, but that of society anywhere on the globe to be found, and now you're going to hear about who I'm talking about. I'm not talking about you, Mr. Micunovic. I always tell the truth, and I tell it to his face, no matter who it is. We listened to people attack Tomislav Nikolic all day without even knowing why they were attacking him. They threatened the lustration a little bit, threatened the bans a little bit, threatened the association. They threatened to return the time of the lynching, as Milanovic was being lynched at the time, so none of those bandits were ever arrested. So they threatened to burn down the congregation again, and I don't know what it's all about. I guess we should all be scared now, that no one can say anything, no one can say anything, because they're being protected by Agim Cheku and protected by, I don't know, Solana or anyone else. What's your problem? Do you really think no one can say anything to you? I'm sorry, and Thaci. He was also a campaign funder. Do you people really think that you will be in a position to forbid those who, citizens say, are six times better than you, than all of you together. Look from Petrovic to Canka, from HDZ, from Rasim's party, Democratic Party, LDP, Cankova's party, all of you together are less than radicals. If you don't see it, you can't count or have vision problems, with understanding, with understanding, I don't know what you're having a problem with. Your five-six, seven-eight, as many parties as you have, despite all the money, despite all the support you have received from Ceku, Thaci and all the others that are for democratic parties in Serbian society, it was not worth it to you all together to win one SRS. I will return to the Serbian Radicals proposal for Tomislav Nikolic to be the president of the National Assembly. We've heard insults here. He says: Tomislav Nikolic will not represent the People's Assembly; it is a time past; so your time has passed. No one has informed you that your time has passed. No one has ever told you that you are the one, as your political ancestors taught people, that reactionary regime or I don't know what, retrograde forces, forces of darkness, chaos, mindlessness, forces that boast that they burned down the congregation. Let me tell you something, by boasting that you burned down the congregation, they're going to have to answer and go to prison for those who burned down the congregation, those who lynched people, they're going to go and answer in front of justice for everything they've done. And not because we don't like them, so we can't punish them by the law, so we're going to lustrate them. I have to explain to the citizens of Serbia what self-proposed democratic forces are proposing. Since they can't find out that you broke the law, then they say, "We'll lustrate." It means to remove you even though you didn't break the law. We'll never do that. We will always follow the law, and you will, by law, answer for the crimes you have committed against the Serb people and against the Serbian state. You say Tomislav Nikolic will not represent Serbia because Tomislav Nikolic is like this and like this. No, you will represent Serbia, with all of Ceku and Thaci's money at five percent, and who knows how many parties you have joined. He can't represent Tomislav Nikolic, but he will represent her as the Duke of the Meridian Bank, or the Duke of cocaine, or the Duke of this or that. You're going to say it like that now, all of you. You think no one can answer you because you're right, you're all smart, you're all the worst about those who got much more trust than you. Here, we saw today, and I'm very happy about it, sharing a tremendous joy with Mr. Nenado Chanka. I love seeing you all together, from HDZ, Nenada Chanka, Ceda Jovanovic, Dusan Petrovic, the Duke of the "Meridian Bank" – all in one place. All together, therefore, from HDZ to Rasim Ljajic, the Democratic Party, the LDP, the abolished Civil League, these other factions of the abolished Civil League, have everything together to defeat you. To defeat you not because of us, not because we need these victories, but because Serbia needs victory to remain normal, to exist as a state, to exist as Serbia, because Serbia without those territories that you claim exist is no longer the same Serbia, is no longer the same country. That's what we're different about. You see, today we have proposed Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and we have been waiting to see if there will be a parliamentary majority who will support it. We were waiting to see, we were counting on you not to be able to tell Tomislav Nikolic that he had violated the Rules of Procedure, that he did not know the democratic procedure, that in parliament he was not acting as the usual MP, or how he should behave. Some of the MPs from other political parties have even admitted it. Then, as a matter of fact, the ordered followed the whole sheath of amazing things. There were even some MPs who I didn't even understand what they were saying, who no one understood what they were saying. I'm not sure they know exactly what they've told Serbian citizens at the moment. Is it your big problem to be elected president of the assembly? Would you rather we didn't have the President of the Assembly, if we didn't have him at all, if we didn't have the established bodies of the National Assembly, would you? You want chaos in Serbia. We told you, here you will have elections very soon, but Serbia needs a parliament. We need to talk about the negotiating team's report. We need to talk about a few other things. You've been like parrots all day, yeah. Here they are in the coalition, but we caught you in action. You also invented it because you have nothing else to serve but fiction. I understand when someone's watching the DSS attack right now, yeah, you're with the radicals now, now we're gonna use it against you. You're free when a man comes out and says five times what he thinks and what happens. You won't hear it because you're not interested in the truth, because you're not interested in hearing anything but yourself and what you got as a warrant to say here. I have a lot of time. Don't be nervous. We'll celebrate a lot, and Serbia will especially celebrate, don't worry. We have one thing that we offer to the citizens of Serbia, which is to establish the institutions of this country, to have the president of the National Assembly, who in a democratic way will give each of you a word, accepting every proposal you make and putting every proposal on the agenda, to discuss the next days, and even if elections go, that even at that time, if we have one of the key issues, as you know, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly can discuss it. Which authority and what body would argue if the new Security Council resolution came forward. It must be the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which must be called by the National Assembly president, but is not responding to anyone today. Someone today won't, because someone needs no Serbian institutions, no democracy in Serbia, no assembly, only one person, an in-house executive body, who could say what he wants and what he wants. That there is Boris Tadic, a corporal at Solana, that there is one who will repeat what we will hear from Solana's statement. We need to hear the whole of Serbia, not the opinion of one political party, but the opinion of its political party, as well as the hearing of political parties who received much more votes from his party, all in coalition with HDZ and Rasim Ljajic. Both the opinion and the SPS, and the LDP, and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and each other's political parties need to be heard. I call on you once again to declare in the early mornings in accordance with your security for the president of the National Assembly, whether it is Tomislav Nikolic or Mrs Milena Milosevic, whom you saw that we did not want to say a bad word tonight, because we are also different from our political opponents. We have neither anxiety nor we would show it, and those who showed it so much tonight, those who couldn't hide it so much, obviously have an unclean conscience, had unclean intentions and intentions towards Serbia. The election of Tomislav Nikolic as president of the National Assembly is a choice for institutions in the Republic of Serbia, a choice for democratic institutions of the Republic of Serbia and a choice for the future of the Republic of Serbia. Vote for Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u472	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, it is late hours, I call on you at the beginning to support the proposal that the Democratic Party sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to support the election of Milena Milosevic as speaker of parliament, to support the preservation of political values for which we all fought together in September 2000 and for which we all fought together on 5 October 2000. It is not possible to make a decision on the President of Parliament without it being a major political decision. In a very short time today, we will all be witnesses together as the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is created, and that is politics. The Democratic Party is, and here to answer to some who spoke here before me, all the time, and in the election campaign, both before January 21st and from January 21st to this day, did what was in its power to form a government that would be able to lead a clear pro-European policy of this country. Because such a policy allows citizens of Serbia to come to a perspective for a better life, because such a policy allows the country to fight with the greatest state and national power to preserve territorial sovereignty in Kosovo and state integrity. Because such a government would allow citizens and the state to protect their interests. That's our deep confidence. The fact that such a government does not exist at the moment means that the Democratic Party has not come to the belief that such a policy can be led. That is why there is no government as a consequence of the negotiations that were held from January 21st to today. We were talking about the security sector, and of course it's not about who will personally deal with what business, it's about the fact that the security sector can do an effective job that the government has not done since 2004. Unfortunately, a year ago, negotiations with the European Union were interrupted, because the government did not have enough power and ability to bring the job to an end. Because the country has not fulfilled its obligations, the international ones it has. And that is why the Democratic Party has insisted on fully clear guarantees and solutions that will allow Serbia to finish the job. To finish a job that will allow Romania and Bulgaria to arrive. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and the respected citizens of few of us, because unfortunately we have allowed ourselves to be ahead of us not only Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, but with great respect for these countries and the citizens of those countries, both Romania and Bulgaria, as if this decision meant a permanent policy formation, the decision that the Serbian Radical Party and its candidate will get the post of parliament will mean that we will be threatened by Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, and that the state of Serbia will be the country in which the poorest citizens in Europe live. It is a decision to be taken today and these are the consequences of the decision this parliament is to vote today. There are no countries in Europe that have problems like Serbia. Problems of non-execution of international obligations and problems of a difficult fight for the preservation of territory and state sovereignty. Under such difficult circumstances, Serbia must fight for the economy. This is what the MPs of the Democratic Party said here, to fight for how to reduce unemployment, which is about a million people today, to fight for how to get new investments, how to make the capital in Serbia operational and how to enable people to work and to live better than they live today. We decide on this and, of course, everyone, as it always happens in public affairs and politics, will be held accountable for their decision. But that's the thing I have to say one more time, that decision is political and that decision marks the direction Serbia is going tonight. We'll be opposition to that policy. As to whether or not you have agreed, I am referring here to the DSS and the Radical Party, whether we are forming a government or not, depending on whether we are going to be an opposition to this parliament. If we go to the new elections, we will have a clear picture, a clear situation, because Serbian citizens will be able to make a decision which way they want this country to go. And, of course, there is no fairer and clearer decision than the decision citizens can make. That is why I urge and call on everyone who wants a European, modern, democratic and prosperous country to vote for Milena Milosevic, who is capable of being a good Parliament president, but who, if we now deny the citizens of Serbia, will have to use a lot of effort to bring her back. You're voting for normal Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u473	Mr. Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u474	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking exclusively to you people's MPs, given that I really don't believe at this time that anyone normal is watching what's going on here, but I want to be honest with you what my impression is this whole day. I am sorry, I am truly sorry that I heard so many attacks today, the mutual insults of one democratic party at the expense of another democratic party, no matter where it went. Because what's the problem, it's easy to argue later, later it's hard to rebuild the partnership. I must say, it seems regrettable that Serbia is now entering a period of great political instability. I don't think what happened today in this congregation is a good sign. These mutual attacks that went on all sides, answers and insults, various expressions that we've heard here, it's not something that we're looking forward to from G17 plus. I don't think that should make any of us happy. I want to tell you MPs something that now the citizens won't hear because they're not watching this, but I want you to know. In these famous negotiations, which I participated in, in direct negotiations with Mr Tadic and Mr Kostunica, a full consensus was reached on the programme objectives, which were discussed two days after several hours. It's just, it's been amazing to me, and today, and it's amazing to me at 3:00 in the morning that the whole thing got to such an edge, because of one thing that was completely incomprehensible to me, that it couldn't have been overcome, and that's on Boris Tadic's suggestion that the minister of police would be from the DSS, while DSima's director of the BIA, the answer by the DSS was hard not to accept it. After that, there was a change and a request not to be the police, but to defend. All in all, I think it's too small a reason that there's been no formation of a majority democratic government. Look at the proposals that DS and DSS made, except in the security sector, there's no big difference. Of course there's something, but it's not that crucial. Well, well, it happened. There is one more thing I would like to say to the DSS and New Serbia MPs so that they do not leave this session and be mistaken. The argument that Tadic and his opinion are influenced by Strasbourg, Brussels, is a delusion. That's one, I'd say, the delusion of one of your party presidents, who developed it to the level of paranoia. Tadic is not a smaller patriot than Kostunica, be assured of that. That's what I'm telling you. I'm not a little patriot either. This is about internal problems within the country and therefore choosing now Tom Nikolic, my only conclusion why today Toma Nikolic is elected by DSS – New Serbia, it is something that is a disaster, it is an int, to show the other side that, if it does not agree to some conditions, then it will show what can be done. But it's a dangerous game, it's a problem. There's no rationality, that's the problem, and that has consequences. That's what I'm really worried about. I'm not talking about this anymore. If you choose Tomislav Nikolic as president of the Assembly, which is the image of the policy we all won together on October 5th, G17 plus exits from these negotiations, we will not participate in the continuation of organ building, because we simply do not see a perspective for such a parliament. We expect elections to be called and I think we will simply all be sorry for the irresponsibility shown in the end and for not being made by the majority government. We sincerely wanted the majority government of the democratic bloc. It seems to me that if DSS and New Serbia MPs vote for Mr Nikolic, they will make a big mistake. I think you're making a mistake and you're not aware of these mistakes right now. I know I can't influence you, but I'm telling you honestly, I think you're making a mistake, which may make it one day, some of you, guilty of what you've done, because I actually know what you've been doing for seven years. There were words here that the government had done more, the first government since 5 October or the second government. I can tell you -- both government and government have done a lot, and one government hasn't done everything. There were gaps in both government and government, but both moved things forward. Of course we can measure the results in this area or that area, but it wasn't worth this much fighting as it was today. I know the parties may be taking a position before the elections, but it seems to me like I'm telling the democratic parties again, it's a rare situation that in transition you have the opportunity to have a third term consecutively. I was governor during my term before the government, the finance minister during the second government's term and the citizens voted so that it was possible to re-establish the government from the parties that were in the first two governments and have a third term, and complete the transition, and join the EU. It's amazing that's the chance we're missing. This for me represents the self-destruction of what we have so far called a democratic bloc. I can't believe it's gonna happen now, but it's just going to happen. That is why, without the pretense to influence you, because I know that you have agreed that who will vote and I know that there is party discipline, I call on DSS and NS MPs to do something that none of you expect, support DS candidate, or at least be abstention, save your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u475	The word is Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, although it's early in the morning, I don't think my few minutes will take much of your sleep, if you'll have it after these things that happen here. I just want to give you a note that you stop living in the delusion that everyone within one block is the same and that everyone within another block is the same. What you fought for on October 5th, you crashed in the first year of that fight after October 5th. The DSS came out of the then government. It was removed, i.e. it was not selected Mladjan Dinkic and G17 Plus was practically removed from the government. The main opponent of the then Democratic Party, led by Zoran Djindjic, in the operational sense of Zoran Zivkovic and Cedomir Jovanovic, was the G17 Plus party. The DS authorities then collapsed thanks to DSS, G17, NS, SPO and SPS, Mr Dinkic. That's how the government was formed, in which you were the minister and in which Labus was the Deputy Prime Minister. I don't want to talk about the democratic values of a part of your party's rule, so, especially at a time when 12,000 people were in prisons at a time of emergency, a way of declaring a state of emergency, etc. After all, DS was defined according to that time. The current DS has replaced the leaderships that led the party at the time and punished those who voted from Bodrum and I don't know which cities. Don't play the unity of the democratic bloc here. As far as we're concerned, we're not interested in that democratic block you call democratically. These are your internal relations and we are not sorry that this democratic bloc is falling apart. It's just, he's not falling apart tonight. When are you going to realize that he fell apart on October 6th? So, you do what you want, I just want to express a real expectation that you'll continue the talks after what's going on here tonight. I wouldn't be surprised if no deal between your parties was reached again, because power is power, and elections are elections. Finally, as far as we are concerned by the SPS, I repeat, since there is no parliamentary majority, there is no agreement on the parliamentary majority, we would vote in favour of a proposal by all parties to establish the leadership of the National Assembly on the principle of government or agreement on some government of national unity. Since this is not there, if there is a party proposal that has the largest number of votes, we will vote in favour of the proposal. Whether or not the government will be made, that's another question. I'm just warning you all that you're not scaring the citizens with the consequences of one man's choice or failure, because the people had something to hear for the last few years. Of course, every government, and ours, and others, and the other, and the third, and the fourth, every government does a little bit of what it resents the previous government. Besides, you all know best how the government worked at the time you did it. At the time, you didn't mind working with some of the parties of the former regime at the time. The parties are changing, but what remains is people and citizens. You're talking about the election. The elections were held on January 21st. What do you think will change after the election? What will change after the election? You in your heads need to clarify whether you, whether Tadic with such a Kostunica is with you or if you think Kostunica is different when he is with us, or not at all because you think Kostunica is always the same. The same Kostunica needs to clarify whether he will be with Tadic, who is with Chad or who is without Chad, or whether you think it is two or three completely opposite policies. These are your internal problems, and we don't want to get into those problems. We are interested in whether Serbia will have political stability. We would be glad that anyone in Serbia can make a government so that Serbia does not get into problems that it has without political institutions. Since they are gone, once again, I call on all the political parties to make sure that even after the president's election, if elected, all the authorities are in place and to go to the government's constitution, or to the new elections as soon as possible, because, as you said yourself, Serbia cannot wait for your agreement, because you are unable to reach that agreement. As you call yourself, democratic or non-democratic blocs, what matters is what people call you in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-07-0.u477	Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right in relation to Article 93? Rules of Procedure? If there isn't, I'll close the search. According to Article 10(5), Rules of Procedure, I lay down a list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly in the alphabetical order of the last name: 1. Milosevic Milena; 2. Never Tomislav. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and since it is in agreement with Article 10(5) of the Convention, Rules of Procedure, a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, according to Article 11. The Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, decides whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, the vote shall be voted by the call of MPs (Article 12). Rules of Procedure. I suggest that the president's election be made by a public vote, by a roll call. Before voting on this proposal, I would ask that the count determine the number of MPs present. I agree that the sittings are attended by 243 MPs. I would like to put the motion to vote so that the election of the president of the National Assembly is made by a public vote, by a noun. Who's up for this proposal? (244 People's Messengers) Is anyone against it? No, I don't. Are there any abstentions? No, I don't. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of the president of the National Assembly should take place by public vote, by calling. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by a public vote, the vote should be held by calling the MPs (Article 12). Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you he's a member of 124. The Rules of Procedure are governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call and that, according to that provision, they should: – the Secretary of the National Assembly calls on the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name, – the MPs who approach the vote pronounce the full name and name of the candidate for whom they vote, – chairing the name and name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determining that he is absent or does not wish to vote, – the Secretary of the National Assembly writes a statement of the MP or his absence with his name and name on the list. Before we go to the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 104. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, found that the National Assembly elected by a majority of the votes of all MPs by the National Assembly president, which means that a MP who received most of the votes of all MPs was elected to the National Assembly. I am voting on a proposal to elect one of the proposed candidates as president of the National Assembly: 1. Milosevic Milena; 2. Never Tomislav. WE ACCORD TO THE PUBLICATION - THE APPLICATION OF THE PUBLIC MEMBER STATES. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement for one of the proposed candidates for the president of the National Assembly. I note that each MP should pronounce the full name and last name of the candidate for whom he votes, Article 124(4). Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs to stand up and plead when they vote. (The Secretary of the National Assembly calls out the MPs in alphabetical order. Avramović Dragan – for Tomislav Nikolic; Avramović Milan– for Tomislav Nikolic; Albijanić Milojub – for Milena Milosevic; Alexić Bojan – for Tomislav Nikolic; Aligrudić Miloš – for Tomislav Nikolic; Anastasovski Dragoljub – for Tomislav Nikolic; Andrić Ivan – for Tomislav Milosevic; Antić Zoran – for Tomislav Nikolic; Antonijević Vuko – for Tomislav Nikolic; for Tomislav Nikolic – for Tomislav Nikolic; Adžić Slobodan – for Tomislav Nikolic; Bajatović – for Tomislav Nikolic – for Tomislav Nikolic; for Tomislav Malin – for Tomislav Milošavić; for Tomislav Toković; for Tomislav Totomirić – for Tomislav Donko – Banović – for Tomislav Nikolic – for Tomislav Nikolic; for Tomislav Rajko – for Tomislav Niković; for Vladjan – for Milović, for Tomislava Milović, for Ć to Ć Ć Ća Ć Ć Ć Ć Ć Ć Ć Ć. [[Continuation after break – 04.15 lessons]] I ask the MPs to enter the O.R., since we have the results of the election. Since we have held a vote to elect the president of the National Assembly by calling, I am concluding the vote and we are approaching the outcome. Allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 244 MPs who joined the vote, 99 MPs voted for candidate Milosevic Milena, 142 MPs voted for another candidate -- Tomislav Nikolic. Please, I didn't finish the procedure until the end. [[Applause]] Three MPs abstained from voting, i.e. they did not vote. Dear People's MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate MP Tomislav Nikolic has received most of the votes of all MPs and that the National Assembly for President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has elected Tomislav Nikolic. Let me, on your behalf and in my congratulations, congratulate Tommy Nikolic on his election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. [[Applause]] I ask the President of the National Assembly to take over the chairmanship of the National Assembly session. [[Applause]]
