ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Lazic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Milojub Albianic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukkovic, Milos Jevtic and other MPs who are in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We continue to work on the established agenda. Prior to that, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6883	Mr. Dulic, I reported on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group yes, regarding the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 104 and 225, that is the dignity of the National Assembly, I say something that I think is of interest to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please, fellow MPs, in a certain way we are all involved in this story, and according to the article I hold in my hands, especially us, the Socialists. Namely, some media, electronic and printed, published a lie yesterday or, as the people would say, a notorious lie, that the Socialists gave the quorum when the agenda was adopted yesterday's session, so that the opposition MPs and SPS president Ivica Dacic would travel to Strasbourg, allegedly. That's not true. You could see for yourself, all of you yesterday, fellow MPs, who were here. We simply kept our cards out of place, until the vote on the Cuba resolution, when we voted. We simply did not take part in the vote on any item of the agenda, nor on the agenda as such; we voted to support the proposal of our fellow radicals to put Cuba's resolution on the agenda. It is a shame, and unfortunately, I am also talking about the level of professionality of colleagues working in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to use such untruths. I would like to ask the Secretary of Parliament, officially asking, on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, for a list from yesterday's vote. Then we'll deliver it to the media. Indeed, it is false, especially when one campaign is being conducted against the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, related to the cost of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone directed, who will, and seen by fellow MPs who were interested, particularly media representatives, could have been participants at a session of the Administrative Committee, where each part of the costs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was explained in a dinar. Not to mention that what is considered to be the cost of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia seems to me, a billion and 260 million, and 903 million is being waste on RIK, but it is being run as part of the costs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If fellow journalists really want to see the costs of the National Assembly and how much this flight costs, it is not a problem to find out. In this way to write about the Assembly, about individual MPs, about individual MPs, not only is it false, but it's a shame. Really, Mr. President, I don't think this contributes to the successful work of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, I'm talking about the way the media monitors the work. If they from all over yesterday's session found the need to say something that isn't true, especially in such a way, whether our delegation should go or not to the Council of Europe, then someone should come out and say, "I don't need to go." Let him say he shouldn't go. Far, far greater costs are being made by other state authorities, far higher costs, and that is not to be said. Not that you don't know, you know, but you don't talk. Look at the profits of people in public enterprises, not only on the republican but also on the local level, so you'll be amazed at the money they're in. This is part of the campaign against the Assembly and against the Socialists. As far as we're concerned, this is absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6884	Thank you very much. I'm joining everything you said. We'll provide a ballot from the vote so you can prove what you're saying. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda, points 6 and 7, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move to a common principle search of the 6th and 7th points of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the State Seal of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a Law on the Seal of State and Other Organizations According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Žutić, a National MP, has appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6885	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. On September 25th, the minister of justice answered my parliamentary question about judicial reform. I'm not completely satisfied with the answer. It is positive that there is a new law on courts, which will be brought into line with the new constitution, and that the Court of Appeal will finally be established and thus restore the three-step trial. In this answer, I was misquoted because I did not ask whether the Supreme Cassation Court would perform a second-degree function. It is clear to all of us that there is currently a second-degree trial in Serbia, a non-democratic second-degree trial. Next, I think it's a rogue name - the Supreme Casation Court, which is also in the 2006 Constitution. If the three-step tradition of the judicial system of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia is restored, then the highest court cannot be called that. Since 1846 he was called Supreme Court, and in 1855 he was called Supreme Court and Cassation Court, later, Cassation Court - since 1945. Therefore, it can only be a cassation court, since the Court of Appeal will perform a second-degree function and it will, therefore, be merely a cassation or a annulling court, while the Court of Appeal will also take over the judicial affairs it has done in the second degree, unfortunately, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask the administration to make sure that future members of the SRS are required to place academic titles. For example, the title of Master Djelic is regularly highlighted in these answers, until the MPs of the SRS stand out for their title.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6886	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the National Assembly that an authorised representative of the SRS Parliament Club is a member of the People's Parliament on these points of the agenda, Aleksandar Martinovic, and the DS Parliament Club - Mr Vlatko Ratkovic. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6887	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to return to yesterday first. There have been, I would say, little confusion in the relationship between me and the chairman, so I haven't been able to give a certain explanation at the end of the debate, put forward some views on the issues that the MPs have raised, but I hope that it is a good opportunity for this debate on amendments. I apologize to my colleagues Zarko Obradovic, Misi Petronijevic, Vladan Batić, Verica Radeti, Mr Martinović and other colleagues, although it is not a mistake for me, and I will certainly look back in the debate on what they seem to be quite competent and precise. Now allow me to move on to two draft laws by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which is the proposal for a law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia and a bill on the seal of state and other bodies. Given that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has ceased to exist, Serbia, as an independent state, needs to have a state seal. The state seal has certain practical facts, but the existence of a state seal, among other things, is one of the symbols of statehood. I think we, as a state of Serbia, should have a state seal. Article 2 of this Act provides for the use of the national seal. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to quote which decisions the state seal is on. "The state seal shall be placed on the decisions of the National Assembly on the declaration of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of the Constitutional Law and acts concerning the election of officials by the National Assembly directly based on the Constitution; acts signed by the President of the Republic of Serbia in the framework of constitutional powers of representation of the Republic of Serbia abroad, indications of the declaration of the law, indications of the appointment and denunciation of the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia and of the instruments of award of distinction; international contracts signed by the Prime Minister and acts of the Government on the appointment and denunciation of consular representatives of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the originals of other acts for which it is laid down by law." You will understand that it was necessary to open space to, possibly, some other laws, this round of decisions and acts, perhaps, add any other decision or act to which a state seal would be placed, first of all, considering that we are about to adopt a law on external affairs, and that certain issues concerning consular representatives may be arranged in a different way. Of course, there is a question of the criteria that led the proponent to make this look like Article 2 of the State Seal Act. These criteria are, as you probably conclude, the importance of decisions and other legal acts on which the state seal is placed, a certain international aspect of some of these decisions and acts and, ultimately, the formal form envisaged for the adoption of some of these acts. It is then followed by Articles 3 and 5, which determine the appearance, content and manner of printing of the state seal, which provides that the state seal is round form, that it is 60 millimeters in diameter. In the middle of the state seal is the great coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. In a circle around the coat of arms, the name of the Republic of Serbia is written, with the word 'Republic' being written above the coat of arms and the word 'Serbia' under the coat of arms. The text of the seal is in Serbian, Cyrillic, capital letters. What is important to note, given who uses all the state seals, is that the state seal is made in three identical copies, for obtaining prints with chemical paint on paper, and can be made in three identical copies and for obtaining prints in seal wax, as well as for dry prints. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the Government shall submit a joint request for the production of the national seal. You will understand, this is due to the need to make no difference in the state seals of technical character, which could happen if at a different time this proposal was submitted, perhaps in a different stamp, which certainly would not be good, even if they differed a few millimetres in size or at least a small font of letters was different, so these three persons were authorized to apply together for a state seal. Also, Article 6 also found that they keep a state seal but also keep records of the use of the national seal, so that there will be records for which these persons will be in charge and those records will contain exactly what act and when the state seal is placed. Anything not set out in this law is subject to, accordingly, the law which I will explain after this, which is the law on the sealing of state and other bodies, in particular those relating to the stamping office, the stamping office, which means that it has the right to produce that seal. Finally, I would really like to, given the symbolic importance of introducing a state seal with us, that is, the adoption of a law governing that Serbia, as a state, has a state seal, I would like the MPs to support the law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia as much as possible. Given the importance of this law, the ministry will seriously consider any suggestions that MPs will make. Now allow me to move on to the draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies, for which I would like to state three reasons why it is today in front of the MPs. The first is, of course, compliance with the Constitution, but also with the system laws in the Republic of Serbia, the second is that certain inaccuracies have been applied in practice, which I will explain later, and these inaccuracies need to be regulated in more detail by the new law, and the third -- due to a unique approach to achieving the rights of national minorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which I will also explain in this summary exhibition. In Article 1 The bill provides for what other state authorities use stamps and I don't think there's any need to read, to list which organs are involved. It is only important to note that the content, appearance and use of the seals of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army is determined by the defence minister, which is completely understandable. As regards the purposes of the seal, it is set out in Article 2: "The seal confirms the authenticity of the public documents and other acts whereby the state and other public authorities and public authorities decide or officially general with other bodies, legal persons and citizens". It is, of course, specified in paragraph 2 that public authority holders can only use the seal in the exercise of public authority, and beyond that, of course, it is impossible, or unauthorized. The mention of the public authority holders shall be in accordance with Article 137(2) and (3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it is foreseen that the seal established by this law, alongside other public authorities, is being used by individuals and public agencies alike. When the previous law, which was passed in 1991, among public authorities, could not have included this circle of faces as it is now. Then, followed by Article 3, which speaks about the seal content, Article 4 – the language in which the seal text is printed, of course, the official language, the Serbian language, the Cyrillic letter. Article 4 is very important because it removes an illogicality that has existed so far with us, and it is about the use of seals in units of local self-government in which members of national minorities live. Namely, while in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in municipalities in which the language of the national minority is officially used, these are the municipalities which have established it in their statutes, and for municipalities where more than 15 per cent of national minorities live, this is also a legal obligation, therefore, in these municipalities the seal was multilingual, or bilingual, the same right did not have national minorities living in Serbia's territory outside the autonomous provinces. So, it was true for autonomous provinces, but it was not applicable to Serbia's territory outside the autonomous provinces, so we have a situation that, for example, in some municipalities, such as Bujanovac or Presevo, members of national minorities, even make up more than half of the population in that local self-government, and do not have the right to use the seal, in addition to, of course, the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, in the language of the national minority, although in those municipalities in official use, besides the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, and the language of the national minority. Obviously, it was an unequal approach to the question of collective rights of national minorities and I must say that, right after this government was elected, I received a request, as Minister, of the Bujanovac municipality, to give my consent to the appearance of the seal. Of course, I couldn't agree on the appearance of the seal, which, by the logic of things, should look like what they sent, which is the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter and the Albanian language as the language of the national minority in the local self-government unit where it is officially used, along with the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, and the language of the national minority. On the other hand, it is obvious that in the AP Vojvodina this right of national minorities can be realised and I must say that it was the initial chapel that we urgently approach the amendment of this law because, unfortunately, it was given a certain political dimension in terms of complaints directed from this municipality to certain international organisations, which, in my deep conviction, there was no need, because this could have been done a year or two days ago; this problem has not existed since yesterday, but has existed for a long time. Of course, I explained it to representatives of international organisations, and here I want to express my position and confidence. So, many of the inaccuracies or, perhaps, the illogicalities that exist in our legal system are, above all, the result of a tumultuous constitutional-legal development, or the evolution that has existed in these premises for the past 10, 15 years, so I am sure that, and I want to point out in particular, there was no intention of the state authorities to make it impossible for anyone to exercise their rights, in particular there was no intention of any national minority being deprived of being able to exercise their rights, and at least to bring national minorities into an unequal position. Then the members who, conditionally said, are of a technical character, such as the way in which the seal text is printed, the shape and size of the seal, the number of stamps. It is predicted that there may be a small seal, when appropriate for certain reasons, also its contents and, ultimately, sealing and handling. As regards consent to the content and appearance of the seal and to the trust of the State Administration's affairs in accordance with the omnibus law, the rule has been maintained, i.e. the provision that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities, in accordance with this law, regulates the content and appearance of the seals of the Autonomous Province, the units of local self-government, the public authorities established on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, gives consent to the content and appearance of the seals that are closer to the item 1st and keeps records of the seals that are closer to it. We added this, because we think it's important that the AP Vojvodina keeps records of these jobs he's doing. Of course, it's a matter of trust and supervision of these affairs is done by the Ministry, through its administrative inspection. Given that these are entrusted dealings, the solutions made in these cases can be made to appeal, the ministry resolves the appeal, and administrative dispute can be initiated against the minister's decision. The stamping out of use, disappearance or loss of seals and replacement of missing or lost seals are questions that we wanted to specify and I think we've quite well regulated this matter, I say, given the previous, 15-year experience that exists in our country, since the application of the previous law. As far as sealing is concerned, it is done by authorised economic operators, stampers, and the power to make stamps issued by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Then, follow the criminal provisions and, ultimately, the transitional and final provisions. I think that this bill has earned your attention and we would do well to consider all, possibly, suggestions, in a correct and constructive way, because these are things that do not have a more significant political dimension, but they have an exceptional practical dimension and it is very important for all of us, regardless of what position they are in, politicians, citizens, whatever work you are doing, that the issues of the use of seals in the state are solved in a very precise way. Because very often the issue of using stamps, including some abuses of seals, is negatively reflected in the exercise of rights, as well as in the duties of both citizens and state entities. In any case, we remain at our disposal during today's debate on all suggestions and I urge you to accept these two draft laws at the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6888	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MPs Vladan Batic, then Aleksandar Vukic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6889	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, it's been a little 20 minutes for you to explain the laws that take us 10 minutes to read. You didn't have to work so hard, because it's completely irrelevant. Mr. President, take this time off so I can normally advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I'm asking you for an explanation, Mr. President, for who knows which time, about the Constitutional Court. All the laws we pass are unfinished laws, because there's no way they can pass the Constitutional Court check. It's nice that it's on the agenda of 30 and a few laws, but there's something I was saying yesterday, but you weren't there, which is called the hierarchy of legal acts - the Constitution, constitutional law, some general, basic, structural, priority laws, and then what's on the agenda. Various bill proposals for this session are an insult to both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, and to common sense. The house is on fire, and the grandmother is combing. There's no Constitutional Court. Serbia is not a legal state. Can you understand that? Mr. President, on September 12th, you promised that the first next session would be the Constitutional Court law and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. You didn't give me an answer. You, Mr. Minister, have also not given us an answer yesterday - when the provision of Article 3 will be respected. Constitutional law, which is related to a set of electoral laws, when the election law for the president of the Republic, defence laws, the military, foreign affairs and security services, the law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, the law on local self-government, local elections, the city of Belgrade and a whole set of laws that should regulate the position of courts and prosecutors. It's all to be done for this incomplete three months, and that's impossible. The Constitutional Law is knowingly violated. What we're doing right now, it could've waited, it's irrelevant. Mr. Minister, as a lawyer, you are aware that the story of the seals must wait until we see what happens to the status of Kosovo and Metohija. The seal story must wait until it is seen what the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia will be, how the provinces will be arranged, what ambitions some in your coalition are. Perhaps Serbia will become part of the Russian Federation. Then why do we need seals? We've got bigger things to do than all this and I'm looking for answers to these questions and a set of judicial laws. Now to put them on the agenda, that debate can't be over by New Year's Eve. Mr. President, will you once announce to the citizens of Serbia when the Constitutional Court judges will be elected? We'll have, even when it's settled, the U.S. Constitutional Court, because we just have to finish the story of the Cassation Court and the choice of that quota of judges to be elected from that Corps.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6890	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for a pay phone for a few reasons. In fact, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I have repeatedly prayed for an answer and was very patient to wait for that answer, especially with regard to the Energy Mafia. I would like you to give me that answer, not me, not because of me, not because of the SRS, not because of MPs in the National Assembly, but because of the citizens of Serbia, because of our country, because until this affair is resolved, Serbia cannot move forward and will not be able to fight corruption and crime, and part of those people involved in the most serious corruption affair are people who are today helping the most important parties of government, above all DSS and DSS, and with Dinkic, they all have a partner relationship anyway, so that's something to say. I came out of another very important state reason, even though you thought I'd be looking for, probably, a way to just nail power. I came out of a very important matter, concerned after talks with representatives of the Vlach national community in Serbia, those Vlachs who see Serbia as their homeland, above all, with Dragoslav Zajkeskovic, who lives in Zlot, and other Vlach representatives who do not want the state to give or impose Romanian language as their native language, because the Vlach language is not Romanian and they do not know how to write Romanian. Just because of the law that is currently on the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, here you will see a wonderful miracle done by Minister Markovic. First, I will show you the answer to Rasim Ljajic while he was in charge of the issue, the issue of national councils. So, Minister Ljajic, savingly doing his job and his duty, said to Article 6. The statute, given the fact that standards of the Vlach language have not been made so far, we propose that the legal person's name be printed only in Serbian and according to the standardisation done - and in the standardized native language of Vlaha. Meanwhile, Mr. Milan Markovic signed a solution that is determined, all in line with the decisions of Live Lazic, a member of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Vlach Party, which, by the way, is signed by the Cyrillic, does not know Romanian, does not even know the Latin, but has therefore asked that the standardized Vlach language be Romanian at all costs, so that we do not continue to unload Serbian national tissues and destroy a group like Vlasi, and you know what awaits us all. Now, thanks to your decisions, we are waiting for all possible pressures already made by the Council of Europe, saying that in eastern Serbia not only the Vlasa, but the living Romanians, so there are a lot of markings waiting for you, from schools to hospitals and everything else, in Romanian, which no one in eastern Serbia, except Karkretovic and Gacovic, will understand, but the state has done someone an important service, and to itself and its people -- a real bear service. To understand the dangers with which these people, which the state supports in this way, are going public, I will now read them to you. They know what I'm talking about, MPs from any party in this House, unbound whether they're from the government or from the opposition. That man says, among other things -- we're Romanians, Vlasi don't exist. He says Vlasi doesn't exist. ''It's an ugly name for us, like when you call Roma - gypsies. Speaking of which, let me say that they have more rights than we do. ''This is how Serbia applies, and thus Serbia, for God's sake, oppresss Romanians, who are in fact Vlasi, but here, Vlasi does not exist, so Milan Markovic will say that the standardized Vlach language is Romanian and that they sign the decisions of the National Alliance of DS and their coalition partners and thus destroys the state of Serbia in the most brutal way possible. I'll just say in two sentences, it's about a man who, not taking care of the law, about the Constitution, about the law, but doesn't care about anything. It only takes care of how Boris Tadic will praise him for the collegiate or DS presidency, the principle of action -- the principle of political opportunity and celery and nothing more. He today, in his statement, or an interview for "Justice", says the following thing - can't go to the mayor's election, although there is a clear, precise cognitive norm that within 15 days of the end of office elections are being discussed for the mayor. We won't have them. What's weird about that? We have a lot of temporary authorities in the administration, because the constitutional law is, it says, stronger than the law. Yes, but the Constitutional Law, and the Constitution, did not change the mayor's position. The constitution changed the position of the president of the municipalities, but the mayor didn't. Then Oliver Dulic will tell us -- he writes in the Constitutional Law, although it says -- with cumulative conditions of the adoption of the law on the president, the law on foreign affairs, security services, the military and defence, elections for the President of the Republic can be discussed by December 31st. He's gonna say, "I'm gonna talk, I don't care if the laws haven't been passed." Where we have all the laws, there is no change in the constitutional position of an incoherent organ. So you have a terrible problem, so they tell you -- we don't care about that, because it doesn't suit us. That kind of recklessness, that kind of interpretation that you're resorting to, can only be called one word: brazenness, and nothing more. By the way, I brought you, after I announced some of those things yesterday, I started reading to you about the relationship between Old Paz and Indjia. I'm not going to talk about the big business right now, someone else will talk to you about it, who made DS with Red hot peppers, and how one square meter of one euro comes to you at 15 euros and how many hundreds of thousands of euros has taken just one man in his pocket, building complete infrastructure, buying and reselling the same land. I'll give you the next thing. Investments in Pazova, at the time of DS authorities since 2003, amounted to 184m dinars, amounted to a billion and 312m in 2007; eleven times higher than Serbian radicals in power. In addition, industrial energy consumption was 3.6 times higher than in India. Today, 8.3 times the consumption of industrial electricity is higher than in India. The industry's working. Although they have 25,000 inhabitants more than India, in absolute numbers, they have 1,500 less unemployed than India. I think that says enough about the success of Old Paz and Indjia. The average salary is also higher in Stari Pazova than in India, 37,178 dinars, and that is the highest average salary in the entire Srem County, according to the Sremska Chamber of Commerce data. By the way, around that world wonder of yours - India, I must tell you that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, in the spring, made a decision and showed the public that Indjia belongs to undeveloped municipalities. Unfortunately, the citizens of Indjija, who are mostly radicals, voted for the SRS in the parliamentary elections, are not allowed because of the decision to defeat Mr Jesic in the local elections, which we have acknowledged. Today they find it sad and can't wait to be replaced, like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6892	Milan Markovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6893	I think there's going to be an opportunity to discuss these topics by the end of the year. There are laws to address the issue of national councils of national minorities, and, of course, a set of laws in the field of local self-government, so we will be able to talk much more about all this. My colleague Alexander Vukic, I must say, as usual, exaggerates a little bit when he talks about these topics. As for the weeds of the minority. We at the Ministry are not authorized, nor are we doing language standardisation. There's a document... (Alexander Vukic, from the post: What did you sign? I just want to tell you that. We are not the ones who standardise language and cannot use our solution to standardize language. We only decide on freedom of association and freedom of exercise of rights, which was insisted by the Vlach community in Serbia. You are probably aware that they were ahead of Serbia's mourning before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. We've studied the whole case well, and I want to tell you next. If we were sued by the European Court of Human Rights, the chances for Serbia would be zero to defend themselves in the dispute. We had no choice but to respect their rights and register the National Council of the Vlachs of National Minorities, not by entering the question of language use. I'll remind you that in Serbia, in some previous period, an Egyptian national minority has been registered, so tell me that it can be Egyptian and it can't be hair. I don't think that would be good. As far as Vlah and Romanian relations in the Republic of Serbia are concerned, it is a complex relationship. I had three talks with the Romanian ambassador about the issue, so that it would be resolved in the best possible way. I think the Ministry has found the best way to address this question, which, at the moment I took office, was already burning, because previously, as vice president of the Assembly, was invited when gentlemen, mentioned, prepared that complaint to the European Court of Human Rights. They had one press conference, one stands, and then, as vice president of the Serbian Parliament, I was invited, and I think all the heads of parliament clubs were invited. I can't remember who responded and who didn't. I think we've best protected the state's interest. You think we've done something contrary to the state's interest, but I think they're too strong grades, even though I'm used to those grades from you. As for the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 42 laid down the whole procedure concerning the termination of the mandate, including this case you mentioned, in connection with the death of Belgrade Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic. The law states, among other things, that elections will not be called if there is less than six months left by the end of the term of office, but that is not the legal basis for such conduct by the state authorities in cases where the term of office has ceased for the holders of the executive authority, or even for municipalities, but according to my deep conviction, the legal basis is the constitutional law of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to compromise on our application of the Constitutional Law, but as far as this matter is concerned, the Constitutional Law is, incontestably, older than the Law on Local Self-Government and the Constitutional Law has established to all, both those to whom the mandate has expired and to those who, perhaps, at that moment, the mandate will be in progress when elections will be held, or when elections will be called, so we should, in that sense, act unilaterally. This is not only in accordance with the constitutional law, this is also celery, since we are bringing it, that the National Assembly should adopt a set that will deal with issues of local self-government in Serbia in a different way. It would be extremely illogical now to hold some elections in the units of local self-government, so in two months these same citizens are invited back and say, let's go back to the elections now, so choose your authorities again, perhaps by a different system than it is now. We don't have a precise answer so far, we don't have a clear answer to the question of how executives will be elected under new laws. We don't know how it's going to be, and it would be extremely unserious, because I don't know which state would do it differently than how we do, which state would now call the elections, so in three months' time, re-schedul the election. I sincerely hope, I don't know why you're throwing it at me, I wouldn't be able to interpret why you started this issue, because it seems untasteful to me that you started it today, but, I say, the law will apply and the constitutional law will apply until it changes. If the Constitutional Law changes, then we will work on some other regulations, and while the Constitutional Law is like this, the Constitutional Law will apply. I think the decision not to discuss elections is now comprehensive and legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6894	According to the Rules of Procedure, MPs Miletic Mihajlović, Slobodan Maras, Vladan Batić, Jovan Tišma, Aleksandar Vucic, Vlasta Baćović, and you can, too, I put you on the list, so let's go slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6895	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does not dispute the question presented here by Mr. Vukic, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is an article. In 225 and 226, I want to kind of brighten up and contribute more to the fuller information when it comes to the Vlach entity. I would like to say that the SPS, which I belong to, feels that the state is passively referring to the Vlach issue, which is very important. It is not about the entity moving something that is now modern, which is modern, human rights, position etc., but rather about the Vlach entity finding its place in the state of Serbia and it is absolutely true that by its being and relationship the Vlach entity belongs to Serbia. So, from the earliest history, if we look back, this entity was never considered to be Romanians, so there are data that Vlachs participated in Kosovo's color as well, but I would not now open the issue to detail. It does not say that Romanians were participants in Kosovo's color, but Vlassi. The question arises as to what kind of legitimacy the Vlaska Community has, which is legitimate on behalf of Vlah, that is, how did this entity, called the Vlaška Community, occur? The state had to engage in defining this thing, because certain centres are able outside our country and how it will use this issue, the position of the Vlach entity, abuse it, and there are all kinds of people in that entity, who, like others in the Serbian state, will, for money, agree to be identified as a national minority, as Romanians. I want to say that, as far as I know, Vlasi will never agree and want to be Romanian. So for a national minority to exist, as you know, there needs to be a country of origin. The authorities of the country of origin are not Romania. Ask the Vlachs, don't ask the self-invited leaders, who stood at the head of the Vlach. Of course, it is necessary for the eastern Serbia state to look at what is called equal development in Serbia, regional development, and I will talk about it on another occasion, as part of these amendments that follow, in order not to take up time. The state of Serbia has a great chance of putting this issue in its place, and in favour of the state of Serbia and in favour of the Vlach entity, it is not politicised, which is in the interest of those who take care of human rights too much, more than we take care of ourselves. I think it's important and that this is the way to take care of it and cover this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6896	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras and then MP Vladan Batic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6897	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting in accordance with the violation of two members of this Rules of Procedure and I would ask you, if you could, to stop this dialogue that is being conducted in front of me, just so I can move on. So, two members were injured, which is Article 27, and I'm asking you to stop my time, because that's where it's 5.35, and I didn't spend that much. So, it says this - the president of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is Article 27. Article 100 says, "The People's MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion is violated, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with which he can speak for the longest three minutes," this is now important, Mr. Dulic, "where no time is required to quote." I've been quoting members of the Rules of Procedure for the last 30 seconds. What am I quoting them for? I quote them because I expected all MPs in this congregation to be the same. You are the first among the equals, and we respect that, we always address you with respect, but you have allowed yourself to use some MPs, instead of three minutes, as allowed to report to the Rules of Procedure, nine and a half minutes. I don't have any problem, if you have a sense of great authority for you, that you respect him very much, etc. I have a problem when you train strictness on certain MPs, do not let them finish, as was the case with Natasa Micic, or, perhaps, something else. You may have pushed these 30 and some agenda points because you have nothing to discuss, because the government hasn't prepared the law and now you're letting us talk as much as we want about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to keep an eye on this congregation, or session, in a way that is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6898	Thank you very much. Just one notice - a session of the National Assembly Legislative Committee will be held today, on 2 October 2007, at 12 o'clock, in the Green Salon, in the building of the National Assembly. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, then MP John Tishma, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6899	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would now like to re-examine the provisions of Article 226, but also of Article 27. Mr. President, you are required to honor the MPs when they ask you for an explanation. I see you're quite indisposed today, it seems you're tired of chairing the assembly. You seem totally depressed and apathetic, and I know it's a serious job, but come on, he respects the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, did you promise to discuss the Constitutional Court? It's like I didn't ask you anything. I asked you several weeks ago, when there would be an initiative on the agenda, which she organised more than two years ago, the Democratic Party of Serbia, and when some 20,000 signatures were collected, to amend the Law on Public Information, to abolish the anti-constitutional provision of the Law, which introduced a television subscription in the form of a fee on the count. There was no answer. Mr. President, you have not answered anything about the issue of a set of laws provided for by the Constitutional Law and which should precede the election call or, to rephrase the question, will you, although you have been publicly determined, but in means of information, and you are obliged to tell the MPs here, to call elections, presidential, province and local, by the end of the year, as foreseen by the Constitutional Law? If you will call them, by respecting the Constitutional Law, will you call them by the existing laws, or will those laws be passed that are supposed to call the elections? Let's say, Army law, one of many. You have not responded when there will be a set of extremely serious and significant judicial laws, a law on the organisation of the judiciary, which governs the work of courts and prosecution organisations. I mentioned the intentional army, the courts and the prosecution, because there's one thing that bothers some people in this country. These are alleged suicides of soldiers in barracks throughout Serbia, the 49th, over the past three years. Mr. President, on October 5th, it ends three years after the Topcider tragedy, the murder of two guards on Topcider, Dragan Jakovljevic and Drazen Milovanovic. Just imagine how in the souls of their parents and their families, which the parasites couldn't give, the moats weren't maintained, and the people were from the patriarchal environments. They're being killed again every day. So is the family Kostic, the family of Zarkovic, Matic and all those families. We need responsibility and we need new laws, serious ones, not those that serve to entertain Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6900	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Jovan Tišma, then Aleksandar Vukic, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and Zarko Obradovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6901	The Honorable Presidency and Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, in particular, respected citizens of the Municipality of Stara Paz, I apologize for taking some time away from you, but I have to react to some of the untruths that have been made from this speaker by the SRS at the expense of the Democratic Party in the Municipality of Stara Paz and my personal account. Reporting under Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6902	Don't ask the question of what this has to do with the Rules of Procedure, you were talking about Old Paz. Article 226 and that's what it says. This is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6903	I said it. Please don't throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6904	He said, "Article 226."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6905	104 and 226. No problem, you can throw as much as you want, but the real truth about what's going on in the Old Paz community can't hide. Namely, the local municipal government, led by Radical Srdjan Komazec, honest and fair, has made a large gaff and damaged the municipality of Stara Pazov for about four million euros. How? Dear colleagues and MPs, respected citizens, sold 18 hectares of best country on an illegal auction along the highway to a local tycoon named Mirko Susha. It's all there, what's the problem? The problem is that the country has been sold by 5.3 euros per square metre, with the municipality's obligation to finance 70% of the construction of infrastructure from budget funds, which is robbery. What's going on now? Now the same tycoon, Mirko Shusha, sells the country 30 euros and some euro squares. Just look at the difference and where are the citizens of the Old Paz municipality, is that the development of industrial zones, gentlemen? While the Democratic Party ruled, industrial zones were sold on parcels, small, medium and large, and all sold out, there it is done today, and what you did - it's empty warehouses, where it's employed by three to five people. You're right, Mr. Vukic, for electricity consumption, but you don't know one thing, which is that one part of the cave industry and the industrial zone in the caves, the Shimanovites, is being powered from Nova Paz, from the trafo station. As for Indjia, I don't know why they come to India once a week for two municipalities from all over Serbia, including radicals, I mean, education. I don't know why the whole of Serbia is talking about Mr. Goran Jesic being the best manager. I don't want to praise him, he's smart enough to defend himself and praise himself, but the actions speak the most. That's right, most of the works are talking, and the works are also talking about how this honest and honest Sr. Komazec drove the German company Henkel away, and she went seven kilometers away, to India. Six months they were looking for a reception with the president of the municipality, and he said, "I won't accept them, they're Germans, they're occupiers, they attacked us in 1941 and bombed us in 1999." They went to India, seven kilometers away, opened a factory four months ago and hired 52 people. In the end, I end up, ladies and gentlemen, I will quote Mr Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, who a few days ago, I think, September 25th, spoke here and ended his statement that robbers must go to jail. I suggest that Mr. Nikolic go with Mr. Komazec, the current president of the Municipality of Stara Pazov, and Milan Končavić, with his right hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6906	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic, then MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is not appropriate for you to laugh, because you must be a serious man, who represents the citizens of Serbia. It's especially bad when a proven drug dealer comes out for a pay phone, a man he's known to be a drug dealer and to sell drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6908	Mr. Wolf, I give you a warning for insulting the Messenger of the people. Keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6909	Why did you give me a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6910	For insulting the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6911	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask you to let me explain what I said. Mr. Komazec has no case against him, on the contrary, against Mr. Tishma has 20 criminal proceedings for all possible thievings, which the authorities of the Serbian state have launched against him, for theft and for robbery. So, as far as these companies you're talking about, Mr. Komazec won't take them because they're offering him a bribe of 500,000 to a million euros, and you take it, so you boast about big investments. Mr. Tishma, that's the difference between you and us. Look who was talking to you earlier. Here is the MP Gordana Gajic from the Serbian Radical Party, and a moment ago Mr Tisma came out who confirmed that Gordana Gajic, with a full bag of money, had come to the SPO in Stara Pazova, Djordje Radinovic, and offered her great money and I don't know what everything. How dare you lie like that? They confused Old Paz and Smederevska Palanka. It's the same for you, Mr. Tishma. You know so much about industrial zones that Old Paz and Smederevska Palanka are the same thing. I don't know if that's how you mix cocaine and heroin with customers, but I'm afraid they understand that very well, Mr. Tishma. Let's get back to Mr. Secretary. I'm sure the authorities will deal with Mr. Tishma and it'll be a little less red than it is right now. As for the minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the MPs of the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6912	Mr. Wolf, you're really exaggerating. I told you one warning. He'll come out on the line, so he'll answer, but please adjust your speech. The fact is you're standing at the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6913	Mr. Dulic, I find it interesting that Mr. Tishma, who spoke the most difficult words possible, did not warn, and all I said was the truth. You may not like what I'm saying, but it's actually true and I haven't said a bad and offensive word. Not one bad word, not one rude word, and I haven't said a single curse from this pay phone. Not one. As for Mr Markovic, he participated in the standardisation of something that does not exist. Namely, Vlassi are an indigenous people and Vlachs must exist. We are, right now, in favour of survival and respect for the Vlach identity, but some would like to abolish the Vlach identity and say that Vlachs are Romanians. Some would say - they write in Romanian, or Romanian, language, which the Vlachs do not know at all. There are similarities in language. Vlach's standardized letter does not exist. They don't even understand what it says in Romanian. You put it as Vlach's language, thanks to decision 12:7 within the National Council. Of those 12, all 12 are members of the DSS, which are members of the party that supported DS and Boris Tadic in the elections. Is this enough or not serious enough for the assessment that the minister has exceeded his powers, that he has done damage to the state of Serbia? I am quite sure that the citizens of Serbia will be able to assess and assess it, but it is not good to judge it that way. I brought you something else to read from these friends of Mr. Minister, what they say about the country of Serbia. A certain Gacovic says, "To awaken the consciousness of the sleeping, or scared of the Serbs," so we Serbs are somewhere chasing Vlahe, harassing Vlahe, torturing Vlahe, "Ariadina's thread has torn up 8,000 yellow, not by chance, possibly, fliers, on which it was written -- do not be afraid to plead as Romanians. ''On the question - what are they afraid of, prisons, camps, beatings, we are told - we are afraid of Serbs, Serbian states, certain Serbs and how they are oppressing his countrymen and so on. Is that the policy that we in Serbia are supposed to support today? I don't think so. Mr. Dulic, I'd like to tell you something. Although I count on you, even though I know that, for the sake of party membership, you have to warn me much stronger from time to time than your party colleagues, and I can accept it, you do not have the kind of indifference that Minister Markovic has, I do not know how you will behave in case you respect the law. I'm just going to point to one of his sentences. He said -- how do you deal with it at this point? I made a paper, today's paper, and I showed that the minister was doing it yesterday, and at yesterday's point, the minister was doing it, in today's paper, in today's "Justice" it came out. That's what I'm doing with his statements. He comes out and says, "How can you do this?" So that shows you what kind of minister we're dealing with. On the other hand, it is a man who will convince us every day that we must have presidential elections by the end of the year, although none of the conditions for calling presidential elections have been maintained. So none of the five laws were passed, and these are cumulative conditions. There is no condition here for the vote to be called, none, because the Constitutional Law and the Constitution of Serbia have not touched at all, not for one second have they touched the mayor's position. Whether you ever pass a law or you don't, that's your business, because you're afraid, maybe, of someone's victory and so on. But it doesn't matter. In any case, nothing touches that position. It's not enough for the minister either, because he only interprets it as a principle of generality, according to the principle of party membership. The state you run, as well as all of this, clearly shows that Serbia needs changes, that Serbia and how new people are needed in power, that Serbia needs a different future than what you are offering, and I am confident that citizens will soon choose it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6914	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and then MP Zarko Obradovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6915	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, as a member of the SPS and as the MP of the SPS, who is just coming from Negotin Municipality, from a municipality where there are a large number of Vlahs, I feel called to express my position, as well as the SPS's position. It is good that such a question was found on the agenda of the congregation, that is, it was not on the agenda, but at least it was mentioned, because in the last few years, indeed, there are some things that have never been potent. Unfortunately, our history does that, too. I just want to say, as a member of that people, that ethnic minority, that Vlas are one heterogeneous population, which is also in Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Great Britain, Albania and so on. So there are seven-eight countries across Europe. As far as the dialect itself is concerned, it's a heterogeneous dialect, which generally fits into the language constellations of the states where the Vlachs live, so we have a dialect of Istrian, aromonic and so on. What I want to say on behalf of the Vlach of the Municipality of Negotin, and the vast majority, and later on I will document it, is that they see themselves exclusively as an ethnic group of members of the Serbian people, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They will never allow themselves to become a national minority in their country, nor anyone's interests in the world. They know themselves, and Serbian citizens who don't know this problem should know that the Vlach dialect differs greatly from the Romanian literary language and that children, schooled students in Romania, must attend a year of language preparation, as if they were educated in any other foreign country, Germany, England and so on. But the statistics are inexorable and they'll tell you everything. On the latest 2002 census, the municipality of Negotin showed 57,000 inhabitants, out of which 3,000 are declared Vlasi, but as citizens of the Serbian state. Everything 250 is declared Romanian. Whether these are the Vlachs who have pleaded as Romanians, or are Romanian citizens, I do not have the correct information, as in recent times a lot of Romanian citizens have found their refuge in Serbia. For example, there are a lot of Romanian women who have married and now live here and are looking for our citizenship. As far as the structure is concerned, in the Municipality of Negotin, of 70 councilmen, the number of SO Negotin, 31 are Vlas. We've run some tests, and I'm sorry I didn't get better prepared, because I didn't expect to be invited to talk about this problem, and I accept talking about it anywhere, as I was saying. From 1985 to 2007, for 21 years, in the municipality of Negotin, the 17-year president of the municipality was a member of the Vlach ethnic group. What I'd like to potential, and what's very important, is that we've always, ever since I've known about myself, and that means 47 years, all of us in Negotin municipality lived extremely homogeneous, complicatedly, hung out together since we were little, went to the same school, hung out during school vacations, untegorized whether we were Vlasi or not Vlasi, employed and co-workers at work. There was never a difference and no one ever wondered if it was Vlach or not Vlach. As for Vlah's participation in the parties, there are in all parties registered in Serbia, there are in the SPS in a significant number, even, perhaps, in a dominant one, which I have not dealt with. For example, the Vlasko-Romanian party, together with the DS, participated in the latest parliamentary elections in Negotin, and they won, precisely, thanks to the voices of the people of the Vlach. What's not good is that it's noticeable that Romania has some ambitions, perhaps, according to this life. I would ask the question from this pay phone -- why do Romanians, of all the students and students who are going to school, benefit only from those students who are members of the Vlasko-Roman Party? Why is it promised to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that easier and less material expenditure will get visas if they are members of the Vlasko-Romanian party? I can understand that Romania has certain ambitions towards these citizens of Serbia, but I cannot understand the citizens of Serbia, members of an ethnic group, who wants to become a national minority in their country. I point out that our conclusion, the vast majority of the Vlachs of Negotin, is that they don't want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6916	Thank you. According to Business, MP Dr Zarko Obradovic, MPs Vlasta Bacevic, Milan Vukovic and Srdjan Milivojevic reported. Here you go, Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6917	Dear President, I would like first of all to thank the assembly service that responded very quickly and to provide me with the documents of all the votes we had yesterday at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There were 25 in total. At the beginning, the assembly majority numbered 132 MPs, or at least the majority of those who, in any case, participated in the whole voting process for or against, in order to eventually fall to 127 and one member of the assembly majority did not vote, and that is the other thing. This document lists the names of all MPs who were present yesterday during these 25 votes. So, fellow MPs and media representatives who published the lie yesterday, I have proof of my claim, and it is really not correct to write in such a way about the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS did not give a quorum to adopt the agenda, as some media have maliciously, falsely and falsely transmitted it, as a condition for the opposition MPs to travel to Strasbourg. That's exactly what this document shows, and I'm not calling my fellow MPs, who voted "yes" and who voted "no" who made that majority. In any case, it is seen from the beginning that yesterday the assembly majority had a sufficient number of MPs to vote. The other thing is about expenses. I think the question of the costs of the National Assembly is something about all of us and what we should react to together. Intentional writings on the way the National Assembly of Serbia delegation to Strasbourg are part of the campaign against the National Assembly and against MPs. I think anyone who wants to get the cost structure, the general assembly and the MPs together. Unfortunately, when we MPs ask how many receive others, we can't get the data. I am one of the MPs, members of the Administrative Committee, who has officially asked the representatives of state authorities, executive authorities and public enterprises to provide us with documentation and information on how many employees are receiving in those bodies. We didn't get the information, because it's obviously taboo topic, or there are obstacles to getting that information. We're not giving up. We will ask to see how many others are part of what is called the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or public enterprises that have monopoly on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the fact that they are state-run, how many people and members of boards of directors, how much personal income they receive and do they really deserve such wages, because they are enormous in relation to the receipts of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6918	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Dr Vlasta Badjevic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6919	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Vlach issue in eastern and northeast Serbia is a rather sensitive issue, complex and complex. He's being followed by many misunderstandings, not just here today, amongst the MPs, and I see people here talking with great certainty about the problem or the Vlach issue. This is a question that has been raised centuries ago, a question that neither science nor profession nor life has resolved, and surely there are other places where there are more competent to talk about it. You have about 142 villages in eastern and northeastern Serbia, which are just the hair of villages. In these villages, where only Vlasi live, and I will take as an example, for example, Halovo near Zaječar, 70% or 80% of people declare themselves Serbs, hundreds -- like Romanians and 70 -- as Vlasi. I've probably made a little mistake about it, but 70-80% of the people in Halovo, who are just the town of Vlach, say they're Serbs. I don't think it's a good idea for us here, or anywhere else, to restrict the right of the Vlassima to plead either as Serbs, or as Vlassi, or as Romanians. Otherwise, I'm the Vlach who pleads as a Serb. I don't think anyone has the right to take that away from me, because my parents and my great-grandfathers have pleaded that way. Why that happened, that's another question now. Several years ago, the Democratic Party submitted an amendment to the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, which we were to adopt in the Federal Parliament. My smallness has received DS support for this amendment, and that amendment has foreseen the introduction of the Vlach language. It would be good, and I see that the services are functioning, to look for stenograms of discussion on the subject, when many MPs raced to attack that amendment and ask - what's the weedy language now. I don't want to talk about which political parties spoke negatively about the Vlach language, there were races. Language and letter. It was necessary to acknowledge the existence of the Vlach language, and the argument was - well, not standardised. However, we know that even Roma is not standardised, so he entered that charter again. So I would ask that we don't talk about this much here and not be very aggressive, because the question is really extremely sensitive, extremely complex. There's some half-truths here, some lies. It can be very powerfully reflected in the field. Let me just say that DS is not in coalition with the Vlach and Romanian Party, but with the Vlach Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6920	Since all MPs, who have applied for the Rules of Procedure, have given up, we continue to work. At a session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Dr Vladan Batic gave an opinion. Does he want a word? (Not here) Here you are, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6921	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not wish to obstruct or hinder the work of the National Assembly, but I believe that all MPs have equal rights in this assembly, so that there are not those who are privileged and who can appear 20 times in the Rules of Procedure. I've given myself two calls today, and I hope I won't do it again. So, to be clear, I don't think there was a word in Serbia that someone was forcing Vlahe to plead as Serbs. On the last list, in 2002, the committees holding the list were an adequate national composition. The villages were attended by commissions composed of Vlah, Romanians, Serbs, etc. Therefore, everyone had the freedom to plead the way he felt. Of course it's not good that someone's forcing someone to come out one way or another, but it's also not possible to accept brainwashing to Vlasima that they're Romanians when they're not. I'm saying this with a full moral right because I come from a mile like this and I belong to that entity biologically. Of course, I advocate the culture of Vlach and the cultivation of traditions, customs, languages, etc. We can't isolate the Vlachs through this and bring them back. This should be encouraged in a unique way, and Vlasima should be given their place under the sun, but also not to prevent them from being equal citizens of this Serbia, shoulder to shoulder with Serbs. Besides, the feeling of Vlach is that they belong to the Serbian state, if you will, and to Serbian nationality. There's no difference. At least they feel, like most people, I'm not talking about individual cases, that they're Romanians. I think the state should finally resolve the issue of national councils. What has been done with national councils is highly improvised and thus the possibility of abuse has been given. National councils have been self-institutional, driven from other power centres, and are working for the benefit of these power centres, and at least work for the benefit of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6922	Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, the word is Aleksandar Martinovic, the authorised representative of the SRS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I'm sorry that the minister is not present in the O.R. I don't think the minister knows what his function is as a proposing, or representative of the Serbian government. His task is not to read what the bill says and what it says in the explanation, but we can all read it ourselves without his help. His task is to convince the MPs of why the bill says exactly what it says, not something else, and why it is good to adopt what is written in the National Assembly. We are looking at a minister here who, not raising his head, is reading what the bill says and who is obviously not prepared enough to discuss with the MPs whether the bill is of sufficient quality or not. I will try, in short lines, to make some critical remarks, or suggestions related first to the proposal for a law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia. Before that, I have to say that the Department of State and Local Self-Government is not dealing with what needs to be done. Mr. Minister, according to this debate with Mr. Vukic, has obviously not been informed that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has not changed the rights and duties of the president of the municipality, or mayor, at all, to the authority of the local self-government. Until a new law on local self-government is passed, the 2002 Law on Local Self-Government applies. The basic principle of constitutional law is that there must be continuity in the functioning of the legal order. Until a new law is passed, the applicable law is applied. The president of the Republic and DS President Boris Tadic announces every day of the elections by the end of 2007. Here, I am taking the opportunity to refer the question to Minister Markovic -- why has his ministry so far not prepared proposals for a law on local self-government, on local elections and on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia? Instead, we are today discussing laws that are not irrelevant, but which are not foreseen by the Constitutional Law for Harmonisation by the end of 2007. As for the state seal law, it is obvious that the state seal is one newspaper in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So far, the state seal, in the form provided for by the bill, did not exist. I will go in order, by members, to state what these SRS objections are to this proposal. First of all, Article 2 - use of the state seal lists acts, i.e. decisions on which the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is placed. That's three groups of acts. On the one hand are acts by the National Assembly, acts by the President of the Republic, and on the other hand are acts by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What falls into your eyes as soon as you look at Article 2. The bill is that the article does not cover acts that, in our opinion, must be covered, which are acts, or decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Serbia's Constitutional Court is a top state institution, which assesses whether one general act is in accordance with the Constitution and the law or not. So the importance of the Constitutional Court in all democratic states, in all states that rest on the principle of rule of law, is extremely high. We believe it is necessary to provide that if the state seal is already introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, it must also be placed on acts, or decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, because this increases the authority of the Constitutional Court, as an institution that protects constitutionality and legality in the Republic of Serbia in the last degree. Next, Mr. Minister, Article 3: "The state seal is a round shape, a diameter of 60 millimeters. In the middle of the state seal is the great coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. In a circle around the coat of arms, the name of the Republic of Serbia is written, with the word 'Republic' being written above the coat of arms and the word 'Serbia' under the coat of arms. Mr. Minister, I remind you of the provision of Article 7 of Item 5. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The appearance and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem is governed by law." If you already wanted to introduce a state seal into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, before you had to send us a bill on what the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia looked like and that matter was arranged, in accordance with the Constitution, by a special law. So it turns out that the state seal contains a big coat of arms, but we still don't have the law on what a big coat of arms looks like. Furthermore, in Article 4, since we propose that the state seal be placed on the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we believe that the state seal should be produced not in three but in four identical copies. Furthermore, it is necessary for the state seal law, which contains imperial norms, to be perfectly clear and precise. He must not give space to the authorities applying this law for any free interpretation. Here's what Article 2 is like now. The bill: "State seal, in three identical copies, can also be made to obtain prints in seal wax, as well as for dry prints." Mr. Minister, when you propose a law, then you estimate whether it's in the interest of the state to have such a seal or not. If it is in the interest of the state that there is also a seal for obtaining prints in seal wax, as well as for dry prints, then it must stand in the draft law that the state seal is necessarily made in this form, not "can be made". Who is it to assess whether a state seal is needed in this form or not? It's opening up a space for numerous abuses, for free interpretation of the law. Article 6: "The Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the Government shall submit a joint request for the establishment of the national seal". If I understand correctly, it is the authority of the motion that the state seal be introduced to give the appropriate authority to the decisions on which that state seal is placed. For me, it is logical that, if the state seal is placed on the most important acts to be adopted in the Republic of Serbia, the entities applying for the construction of the national seal according to their rank, according to the function they perform, must be equal to the importance of the acts on which the seal is placed. Now you have one completely paradoxical situation, the state seal is placed on the most important act, and the persons, or entities that apply for the production of the seal are ordinary civil servants, the secretary of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the Government. It is our opinion, if you are already introducing a state seal, if you raise the authority of the decisions and acts on which the state seal is placed, that the entities applying for a state seal must be state authorities with the highest possible degree of political legitimacy. It is, above all, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So these are entities that need to apply for a state seal, not civil servants, administrative workers, who do not have any political legitimacy. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're really reading in detail what you're being written on the basis of these draft laws. The reasons for passing the laws of urgency, now listen well to the extent to which this law applies: "The failure to pass this law by an emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the state authorities, since the state seal of the Republic of Serbia is not regulated in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia". Here, we haven't had the state seal of the Republic of Serbia until today, and I don't see that the state has suffered any major damage. The state has suffered damage and is still suffering, but not because there is no state seal, but because there is corruption in the work of the state administration, because the constitution is not respected, because the laws adopted by this National Assembly are not respected, etc. Next, if you say it will cause harmful consequences, then it's not enough to stay on it. What are the adverse consequences, will someone lose their jobs, will they be questioned about the security of the Republic of Serbia, public order and peace, which are the adverse consequences? You don't actually say anything. And what an emergency it is to pass laws if you put the State Seal Bill in the assembly procedure on 24 August 2007, and it is now October 2, 2007. So it's been a month and a half and it's not debated that your bill, which is reportedly urgent that in the event of its failure, there will be some adverse consequences for the work of the state authorities. Now let me say something about the draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies. First of all, Mr. Minister, I think I've drawn attention to that in one of my previous exhibitions, the basic rule of nomoth, or writing all the proposals for general acts, or law, is consistent use of termology. You keep breaking that rule, obviously you didn't know and you prove it every day. You say that the aggregate term "state and other bodies" covers all public authorities, the authorities of rural autonomy, local self-government, further, that the aggregate term "public authorities" covers public enterprises, institutions, public agencies, etc. It would now be logical to use this termology until the end of the bill. So, when it comes to state and other authorities, to say "state and other bodies", when it comes to public authorities -- to say "public authorities", because the bill applies both to state authorities and to public authorities. It's just enough to turn the other side of the bill, so you'll see that the public authorities have suddenly lost themselves. It's just mentioned, not even the state and other bodies, as it says in Article 1, but only the organs. Then a man who reads the bill can be in a dilemma whether the government wanted the bill to apply to both state and other bodies and to public authorities, or whether it wanted only to apply to organs. If she wanted to refer only to organs, it remains unclear whether she wanted to refer only to state authorities or only to the authorities of territorial autonomy or local self-government. So the inconsistent use of termology, which you yourself have proposed in the bill, is something that is fundamentally lacking in this proposal. It may seem harmless to you now, but anyone who understands had anything to do with writing general acts is extremely important. Furthermore, Article 1(2) states: "The content, appearance and use of the seals of the units and the institutions of the Serbian Army is determined by the defence minister." Ladies and gentlemen, we are passing a law on the seal of state and other bodies. One of the state authorities, one of the most important state authorities, especially given the security situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located, is the Serbian Army. And now we are passing a law that will apply to the authorities of municipalities, to public enterprises, etc., but we are not passing a law that will apply to the seals used by the Serbian Army. It turns out that the Serbian Army is less important in rank than the local self-government and territorial autonomy, so we will legislate the seals of the municipalities, but we will leave the defence minister alone to prescribe what the seals of the units and the institution of the Serbian Army look like. Instead, we propose that the content, appearance and use of the seals of the Serbian Army institutions determine the Law on the Serbian Army. Therefore, the law must be an act regulating the use of units and institutions of the Serbian Army, not a sublegal act by the defence minister. Not to mention that we in the SRS have a lot of objections to the behaviour of incumbent Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, who without a decision of Serbian citizens, without a decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is already enrolling us in the NATO Pact. Furthermore, Article 3: "The seal contains the name and coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, the name and seat of the state and other body or public authority holder." Now, Mr. Minister, Article 7(2) again. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "The coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia is used as the Great coat of arms and as the Little coat of arms". So the constitution makes the difference between the great and the small coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. You say, "The seal contains the name and coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia," so I ask you now, are you referring to the Great coat of arms or the Little coat of arms? Next, Article 7. The bill's proposal, the arbitration again, the free interpretation again, the re-enactment, so the one who reads the bill simply can't understand whether the law is mandatory or not. "Organs have one seal for a chemical paint print," and now watch this: "and I can have one stamp for a print in the seal wax and for a dry print." Well, Mr. Minister, who is it that assesses whether the state authority needs to have a seal in the seal wax and for the dry print or not? That means that if their official estimates some state authorities can have such a seal, and other authorities can't. You, I suppose, are passing the law to arrange this matter equally, not to leave freedom there for someone in the state administration to assess whether it will have a seal like this or not. Further, the Small Seal, Article 8: 'Organ may have', but it does not say a state body, but an organ, 'one smaller diameter seal, in the following text: a small seal'. A completely unnecessary provision. Why introduce a multitude of different seals? You're already predicting the seal for the chemical dye, then for the seal wax, then for the dry print, so now you're predicting a small seal. Maybe in a month, we'll get a bill that provides for a microscopic seal. You simply introduce a multitude of seals, which, in practice, ministers, I say this to you well-intentionedly, can cause abuse. Anyway, the bill contains standards that can be interpreted in one way or another, and even if you introduce some small stamps, even less, if there is someone in this country who will control how these national seals are used. Next, Article 10. The Serbian Radical Party considers, when it comes to state seals confirming the authenticity of the public documents on which the seal is placed, that deadlines in which the application for stamping is submitted, deadlines within which the competent ministry adopts solutions, etc. must be extremely short. Practice has shown that short deadlines are the most effective means of forcing state authorities to do their job and to prevent short deadlines, to the greatest extent possible, from being abused. What's Article 10? A bill of law? "The ministry is obliged to decide on a request for consent to the content and appearance of the seal no later than three days from the date of submission of the orderly application. "We believe this deadline is excessively long. You, Mr. Minister, laugh, everything seems funny to you, but I'm trying to give you some good-intentioned suggestions on how to make this law better than it is. If you can't give us too many reasons, but read what others have written to you, give it, even if you listen without laughing, without mocking what the Messengers say to you. Don't think we in the SRS don't know anything, that we're illiterate, so you should read to us what one of your employees at the Ministry wrote. So the three-day deadline is too long. The minister is surrounded by his ministry, fortunately, a very numerous administration that helps him, has many state secretaries, assistant ministers, etc. So he's not exactly a minister who kills a lot of people at work, so he doesn't know when to come up with a solution. It is an extremely important thing to make a solution that gives consent to the content and appearance of the seal. The deadline, according to the SRS, must be only 24 hours. Therefore, within 24 hours of the date of submission of the orderly application, the minister must make a solution that he approves or does not approve of the request for the production or the content of the seal. Next, Mr. Minister. I also asked this question to Minister Milosavljevic. It is possible that he may not be sufficiently understood about this matter because of his profession, but you should probably give me an adequate answer. Article 12: "Decision of the Ministry is finally and an administrative dispute can be initiated against it." Since it is the administrative act of the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, to decide in the administrative dispute, Mr. Minister, it would be the administrative court's jurisdiction. The administrative court was scheduled to start functioning on 1 January 2007. According to my information, it hasn't happened yet. There is no administrative court, and on 1 January 2007, the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia to settle administrative disputes has ceased. Now I ask you, that is, I repeat the question I referred to Slobodan Milosavljevic, how will security be provided in the administrative dispute when there is no court competent to resolve this? Next, Article 14. Article 14 is, I must say, rather vague, i.e. it is not known from which moment it is reported that the seal has disappeared or is lost and the deadlines are, in the opinion of the SRS, too long. Here's what we suggest: the disappearance or loss of seals is reported, not without delay, but within 24 hours. What does "no delays" mean? Without delay, there's one legal standard. For someone in Subotica, without delay is three days, for someone in Nis, without delay is five days, for someone in Valjevo, without delay is one day and then you will have unequal practice. Legal standards can exist, Mr. Minister, that's what you had to learn from bonds law, civil law, where property relations are regulated. When it comes to imperial norms, when it comes to public law, there are no legal standards, or they have to be reduced to a minimum. It has a precise and decadent deadline, 24 hours, three days, a month, a year, etc. Can I continue for the next 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6924	No, I don't. You have a total of 20 minutes that have expired.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6925	Here, for a little while. It's funny to Mr. Minister, and I'm going to spare him from dying of laughter in the Serbian Parliament. Therefore, we believe that the disappearance or loss of the seal must be reported within 24 hours to the Ministry, or to the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, and that it must be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, or in the Official Messenger of the Autonomous Province, within 24 hours of the day of its application. Further: "The request for seal advertising is not submitted to the official vote of the Republic of Serbia, or the Autonomous Province", not within three days of the knowledge of the disappearance or loss of the seal, but on the same day it is reported that the seal has disappeared or is lost. There must not be a time interval between the day when the missing is reported and the day when a request to the "officer" is submitted to announce that the seal is missing or lost. It's just that there can't be a break-up. Possible abuses are possible, but indeed harmful consequences for the work of the state authorities. Mr. President, just two more sentences, if you'll excuse me. Article 18: ‘The print of the stamp, the number of copies of the seal and the date of its application shall be delivered to the Ministry or the competent authority of the Autonomous Province’, imagine a period of 10 days, within 10 days of the date of manufacture of the seal’. What's taking so long? I really don't see any reason to predict a 10-day deadline. Instead, the SRS predicts a 48-hour deadline. In the end, Article 24. In our understanding, it must be deleted because Article 24 reads: "The defence minister will pass a regulation on the content, appearance and use of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law." Since we have suggested that the seals of the Serbian Army are regulated by law, it is quite logical that we seek to delete Article 24. Proposal for a law on the sealing of state and other bodies. Mr. Minister, I advise you to prepare yourself for next time to discuss the bill's proposals, read what they wrote to you more than once at home, so here, even with your own words, you'll be able to explain it to us. What I was saying wasn't funny. I have made useful suggestions and it is my advice that you adopt all amendments of the SRS, because we, otherwise, will not be able to vote for such bad bills.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6926	A representative of the Democratic Party's Parliament Club, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6927	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we have two laws before us that regulate the matter of the seal, namely the state seal and the seals of state and other bodies. In its essence, Colloquial terms, these are technical laws, but we can look at this issue from another point of view. In his statement, the minister stated that the seal was, in a way, one of the symbols of the state. Constitutionally and legally, the seal is not a symbol of the Republic of Serbia, it is a flag, coat of arms and anthem, but the seal is an important technical element, it is practically the legitimacy of the state to decisions made by the state and state authorities. Both of these laws have their foothold in the Constitution, in Chapter I of the Constitution, Chapters II and VII of the Constitution and in the principles of the Constitution - in the Head of Human and Minority Rights and in Chapter VII, concerning, firstly, the authority of territorial autonomy, i.e. regional powers. At the end of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the use of the state seal of the Republic of Serbia should be regulated by a new regulation, which is exactly the law. I will remind Serbia's state is an international law entity, it is a legal entity and for this reason it is necessary to pass a state seal law. Otherwise, as you have seen in the course of the presentation, it has been found that the state seal is being placed on the decisions of the National Assembly, namely the declaration of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, and the acts on the election of officials, based on the Constitution, on acts by the President of the Republic of Serbia on the representation of the Republic of Serbia abroad, on an order to declare the law, on the appointment and denunciation of ambassadors and on the instruments of award of medals. The state seal shall also be placed on government acts on the appointment and recall of consular representatives, as well as on international contracts signed by the prime minister, or the Prime Minister. We believe that the comprehensive and correct provisions of the draft laws concerning the production, storage, use and keeping of records, which are being handled by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the Government. The state seal, according to this legal project, is produced in a three-way sample to obtain prints with chemical paint on paper, and can be printed in seal wax and for dry prints. As for the law on the sealing of state and other bodies, it also generates certain principles from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I quoted at the beginning of my presentation. To remind me that the applicable law on the sealing of state and other bodies was passed long ago in 1991 and, just now, the adoption of new system laws, organic laws from many legal areas, the reform of the state administration and all that the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing, also requires the adoption of this law on the sealing of state and other bodies. I will remind you that the seal serves the state and other authorities, as well as public authorities, when they do entrusted tasks. Consent to the content and appearance of the seal, when it comes to the seal of the army, is given by the defence minister. The agreement on the content and appearance of the seal shall be given by the minister responsible for the administration's affairs within three days. We consider these deadlines to be cellular, precisely because they are restrictive, or short. Around the very text and use of language, we have again a foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the text of the seal is written in Serbian, Cyrillic, and the wording of the seal of the authority based on the territory in which the language and letter of the national minorities are written in the language and letter of the national minorities. What is important to point out is that the autonomous province is closer to edits the contents and appearance of the seal of the AP, or local self-government, which is based on the territory of the AP. The competent authority of the AP shall give consent to the appearance of the seal. He performs his duties of consent and record as trusted. Any loss, disappearance or commission destruction of the seal shall be notified to the Ministry. Also, the authority to draw up the seal issued by the MUP. So we have a whole series of norms that regulate this technical matter around making, controlling, advertising lost seals, etc. The point is, we have good laws ahead of us. The DS will vote in favour of these laws, in the belief that the seals of the Republic of Serbia and the seals of state authorities will be placed in the very near future on very important state documents, for example, for the sake of an act on Serbia's accession and stabilisation of the EU, on documents relating to the White Schengen List and on all those documents and state acts leading to the better lives of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6928	The word has been made by MP Laslo Varga, deputy head of the Vojvodjanski MEPs - League of Social Democrats Vojvodina - Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6929	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Vojvodjan Group of MPs and the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians are ready to support the draft laws both on the state seal and on the seal of state and other bodies. We welcome the fact that the bet of Article 2 4. The bill allows members of national minorities who do not live in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to use their own languages when printing the text of the seal. This fact is a significant step, but I don't think it's enough. We have submitted one amendment to the bill for three purposes. On the one hand, we want this law to be established and, above all, the obligations of the state authorities to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, i.e. that the names of municipalities, cities and other settlements in areas where the languages of national minorities are in official use are printed by the spelling and tradition of national minorities. Unfortunately, in practice, in some municipalities, this right is not respected. On this occasion, I would like to give an example of the Serbs, the municipalities that have been avoiding for years to set bilingual tablets with the inscription of the municipality, regardless of the fact that she lost the administrative dispute against the province's authorities. Not even after the verdict, she didn't put those tables up. I think that this is a bad example and that by accepting this amendment, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia could send a clear signal to all authorities, including local self-government, that it advocates respect for the rights of members of national minorities in the field of official use of language and letter. On the other hand, these names of settlements were established in Vojvodina on the basis of a rural decision on the closer regulation of certain issues of official use of language and letters of national minorities, which was otherwise made under the Law. Therefore, these names have been established in Vojvodina, and in other areas of the Republic of Serbia these names have not been established, and this amendment also proposes a procedure allowing for the establishment of the name of municipalities and cities in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to invite Mr. Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment, as they did in the adoption of the Law on travel documents. At that time, accepting the amendment, they sent a good signal to national minorities regarding their rights in the field of official use of language and letter. This way, I want to take the opportunity, while I am behind the pay phone, to replicate Mr. Mihajlovic's exposure. I want to reject all these flat-rate estimates that have been made at the expense of national councils of national minorities. National councils of national minorities are the highest bodies of minority self-government, based on the Constitution. I think disputing the functioning of national councils is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there are problems in the functioning of national councils. These problems stem from the fact that no law on jurisdiction, election and funding of national councils has been passed, but it is not the fault of national minorities, nor national councils, but of states. I think this is a good opportunity, in the hall there is Minister Markovic, who is at this moment the most directly responsible for the future proposal of this law, to invite him to make his ministry do so as quickly as possible. Finally, on behalf of the National Council of Hungarians, whose secretary I am, I am responsible for saying that our national councils are not managed by any tycoons. On the contrary, members of the National Council and the authorities of the National Council manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6930	I thank the People's MP, Laszl Varga. Miletic Mihajlovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6931	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to get into any controversy with my previous fellow MP. I think the MP himself said that there are many irregularities in the functioning of national councils, given that the state has not done everything to define what the powers of the national council are, how they are financed, which leaves many opportunities for national councils to be misused. Of course, I'm not talking about the National Council of Hungarians, whose member you are, since I don't know the situation, but when it comes to the National Council of Vlah, there's a lot of what improvisation is and I'd say, a cartoon of what should be a national council. Only when it's defined in the best possible way can it achieve its function. National councils are also needed and should work on making it clearly defined as soon as possible, in order to function in favour of the rights of national minorities and entities that they represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6932	I thank the People's Messenger Miletic Mihajlovic. Minister Milan Markovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6933	Thank you. I want to tell and give Mr. Varga and the public one piece of information. A working group was formed 10 or 15 days ago, which should prepare a draft law to address the issue and the national council of national minorities. To be honest, this whole problem is very complex. I think making the law is gonna be tough. There are a number of issues in question, but we have included the most innovative experts in this area, representatives of national councils of national minorities will also be involved. I think you're all already informed about it and we're left with a way that we can all get to an adequate law together. The contentious issues are numerous, starting from the very way the National Council of Minorities is elected, to the question of the authority of the National Minority Council, which I do not think there is a clear picture in our society of what it should look like. Anyway, I think it's important that we mention everything here and that the public be informed that it's something that we're working very hard on right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6934	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted only to the SRS, seven speakers. The first is MP Aleksandar Martinovic. All right, no problem, first it was Mrs. Vervain Radeta, but someone wrote that you were the first. It doesn't matter. We can move on. The word, then, has a National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6935	Let me just say that Mr. Martinovic is an authorised promoter, or representative of the SRS, on this agenda point, and he will speak eventually, after the other SRS MPs, if the time permits. As for the agenda that is today ahead of us and this point that we have already discussed, I must say that this is one of the evidence that Serbia is in a major crisis, political, economic, institutional and, freely, state-of-the-art. Serbia has not formed a Constitutional Court, which is one of the country's most significant bodies. Serbia does not have a Supreme Cassation Court. The constitution is respected for the political need of parties that make up the majority. We have a situation that in more than 10 local self-government there are temporary measures, i.e. temporary authorities of the administration, and in some - since October and November 2006. The question arises, which is why this ruling majority did not want to call elections in these local self-governments, when there was enough time, and a year to potential new elections, for which we still do not have the exact information when it will be. Serbia has passed no fundamental law, no law on the president of the Republic, no law on defence, no law on the military, no law on foreign affairs, no law on local self-government, and no law on the capital. I'm talking structural, essential laws. We do not say that the state seal law is less important, or we do not say that it is irrelevant to the Republic, but compared to these essential laws, we can freely say that it is insignificant. A colleague from the DS, in his speech, said a few minutes ago that it was a technical matter, and I don't think Serbia has time to deal with technique today, it must be dealing with the essence, it has to deal with the lives of its citizens. I wanted to say a few things here. This reminds me of the period of the Peloponian wars, when Athens and Sparta fought to dominate the small countries of Greece, so often the representatives of Athens, who were extremely proud of their democracy, went to these surrounding countries, wanting to spread their domination, and told them why they should accept Athens as their mentor, as well as the model of Athens democracy. However, in their supreme legislative body, such as this assembly, they always said – but we want these countries to be democratic, democratic as much as we do. I think it is a principle that is unfortunately applied today in Serbia. We were listening here, but I didn't want to get involved in the debate then, knowing that I was going to talk, and some of the topics that were on the agenda today. Our colleague, Tishma, made some remarks on the privatisation of 18 hectares of land in Stari Pazova, and said that this job, since it was sold to a Mr. Shushi, at a price of 5.3 euros per metre of square, damaged citizens of Stara Pazova. I'll explain to you why it's not true and what actually happened. The municipality bought from the company Progress 100 hectares of land, for a total figure of 85 million dinars, plus a commitment, since it was bought for the need to build an industrial zone, to build infrastructure, but not for some privateer, but for the construction of an industrial zone. Since the company "Progress" was privatized in the meantime, they asked that part of the money be paid in full, and the municipality, for the purpose of bringing in, was talking about changing the purpose of the land, sold 18 hectares of its land, at a price of 5.3 euros per square metre, municipal, unregulated land, private owner -- for a figure of 80 million dinars, and only from those 18 hectares almost fully covered the sum of which it paid 100 hectares of land. Then she municipally arranged the infrastructure, approaching the entire land for the construction of an industrial zone, and then selling the land for 9.5 euros per square metre, making an enormous profit for the citizens of Old Paz. In this way, she showed that a successful and homely municipality takes care of everything. She didn't take it, so she sold the private agricultural land, then renamed it a construction property, so that he could make money, but she earned the municipality, or its citizens, who thus reduced poverty in their municipality and, to a significant extent, unemployment. So there's no harm done to the citizens of Old Paz, but it's an extraordinary benefit. As for competition, which was mentioned in the Assembly, I think of Stara Paz, it is usually thought of the Indji municipality, the neighbouring Indji municipality, where the president of the municipality of Goran Jesic is. Let me say, first of all, what the colleagues were saying, and what little is known in public. The president of the municipality, Goran Jesic, after the first elections after 2000, when the DS was in coalition power with the DSS, as the DSS withdrew at one point from the coalition to remain in power, he accepted the support of the JUL board. That's when the JUL committees didn't bother him. They were great to support the coalition majority. Also, one of the alleged investments that was scheduled to take place in India took place on 20 October 2006, and it will almost be a year from that event, but you will hear what was actually happening. The company Tesline, which Goran Jesic brought to India as a group of alleged Slovenian investors, was to build a factory and employ 285, nearly 300 workers, who would be newly employed, in new jobs. However, after cutting the tape, and all of this was sent with a number of cameras, photojournalists, as it usually happens, in their manner, to pay off their first salary, based on which workers raised abnormal loans, at 15, 16 and 17 000 euros each, were charged abnormally and burned into some kind of debt slavery, the company withdrew rapidly and there was nothing from that investment. And day-to-day, when you go to India, there's only one laziness in that location, like it was a year ago. Absolutely nothing more, no foundation and no house, nothing more, let alone the factory. What will happen to the workers who, based on that first profit and promise to work, have raised loans because people are raising loans because they have to? Of course, we can talk about it and we talked about it in the election of governors, that there is no serious state policy that warns citizens not to be too in debt. How they're gonna pay off, that's another topic. As a special curiosity, I must state the fact that in the spring of 2007, the executive council of the Vojvodina placed the Indji municipality in the order of the underdeveloped. Let me remind you, in the Executive Council of the Vojvodina, as well as in the Indji municipality, the power to the greatest extent is the DS, it's the same government. Then who tells citizens about success and failure? Not to talk about an affair with the sale of 99 hectares of agricultural land, which belonged to an Indjia agricultural community, managed by coalition partners Goran Jesic, which was sold to a private company in Belgrade at the price of only one euro per square metre. They attacked Srdja Komazec for selling municipal unregulated land at 5.3 euros, and they sold land at one euro per square metre. When a concert of Red Hot Chill peppers took place, the municipality invested 700,000 euros in the private land, on the 99 ha, 700,000 euros, to build a communal and accompanying infrastructure for the concert. The concert was held, with the value of the land being increased by 10 to 15 euros by the private owner, with the one euro he paid. It wasn't to sell the municipality and then, after that, to the citizens, but, in fact, the private owner got so rich. I'm not saying it's the private owner's fault, but the question is responsible for who's going to make up for that difference. I'd like to tell you a few facts about how a home government, the government of the SRS, in Old Paz works successfully. To hear how serious power works. During 2004, before the SRS came to power, total investment from the budget amounted to 184 million dinars. I won't read to you that in 2005, it was 395, and in 2006 -- 883 million dinars, while in 2007 total investment from the budget amounts to a billion and 312 million dinars. Realisation is under way, as fully implemented every year investments projected by the budget. That's what's going to happen with this in 2007. The municipality has built a new road of Surduk-Slankamen, road R100-600 from Stara Pazova towards Corridor 10; it is about large master roads. Asphaltom was changed over 90% of all regional and inter-mural roads and paved larger streets in the settlements of the municipality, and two new intersections were constructed and constructed. As for investment funds, over 2,000 new connections have been created and 1550 more connections are planned to be built for the sewerage network. At this point, there are four large sports halls - in Belegis, Surduk, Old Paz and the Army. Large construction works and the creation of large industrial zones, which have, in fact, withdrawn the economy of the whole region, are a huge momentum for Serbia's economy. Two new kindergartens are being built in Krnjesevci and Novi Pazova, and it should be said that there are over 2,500 m2 in Novi Paza and is one of the most modern in Serbia today. The Municipality of Stara Pazova was a donor of land and complete infrastructure for the construction of 76 apartments for refugees and displaced persons in the Banovci settlement, which are already completed today. Salaries in Stari Paz are on average 37,178 dinars and are most of all municipalities in Sremski County. There are 36,234 unemployed persons in the Srem County, according to statistics, of which, proportional to the number of residents, is the lowest number of those in Old Paz. I'll just say that in Stari Pazova, which has 74,000 inhabitants, there are about 5,844 unemployed people, and in India, where there are almost twice as many, 48,000 people, there are nominally many more - 6,694 unemployed persons. In Stari Pazova, building new industrial zones and serious strategic investments of local self-government this year and the following year will result in a complete disappearance of unemployment. Stara Paza will be the number one municipality in Serbia, where there will be no unemployed, and workers from other areas are expected, because new jobs will be opened here. This is how serious government works, who doesn't think about himself or his commissions, and I don't know what, but think about the citizens and the better life, and their children. That is why Srdjo Komazec, and the SRS, and Tomislav Nikolic, will, in the presidential elections, beat all candidates, because that is what is good for Serbian citizens and that is what the future is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6936	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. Mr. Momir Markovic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Vukelic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6937	Before I move on to the laws, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me ask the Minister of Justice one question. Since the municipality of Indji and Goran Jesic has already been mentioned several times, I don't know if he's still a member of the DS, because he's changing it like a shirt, so it doesn't matter, he was in the DSS, so now he's moved to them, I have to say that he owes the company for the construction of water and waterworks in India, whose director, or owner, Mihajlo Mihajlovic, is an incredible sum of money. Several times, the District Court made a decision in favour of the contractors, and several times your friends, ladies and gentlemen, from the Dossmanian company shot down that verdict at the Supreme Court and, behold, they've owed a man several years ago, and it's about a hundred million dinars. How long will that take? Of course, while Jesic shifts from the mayor's post, it will be at the next local elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it weren't for the state seal and if it weren't for something that gave authority to the state to every act, these laws would be policy laws. The problem's in the next one. Since you, from the ruling coalition, have seen the government as a spoil of war, the revolutionary prey, and since 2000, you have been acting like such a force, you have divided the government by saviours, so the minister from one party and the cleaning woman from that party, none of them can enter from another party, not even from the coalition to that ministry, because it is the easiest way to implement that system - what the eye sees, the hand leaves. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, looking at these bill proposals and why they're being put into an emergency procedure, and they say, not to do incredible, huge damage to the state, I've been wondering, well, since 2000, you've been ruling and you've been making some kind of law, and here's the last law, which was passed in 2006, so to this day you've had the opportunity to do some incredible damage to the state. However, you did not miss that opportunity, but not because of the seal, but because of the laws that allowed you to do so. We're making a decision now by emergency procedure. Come on, the SRS agrees to discuss these two laws as an emergency procedure. Let's just look at these bill proposals. Article 2 states that the state seal is placed on the decisions of the National Assembly on the declaration of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Law and the acts on the election of officials, etc., on the indication of the declaration of the law, the indications of the appointment and denunciation of the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia and the instruments of award of distinction, international contracts signed by the Prime Minister and the government's acts on the appointment and denunciation of consular representatives of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on the originals of other acts for which it is laid down by law. Ladies and gentlemen, who will control that? Who, possibly, will sanction the abuse of the state seal? Who's the one who's above and can say - this is in accordance with the law, this is in accordance with the Constitution, this is where it's supposed to be stamped, it's not here? So, the Constitutional Court. We don't have a Constitutional Court for two years. Who will control you so you don't abuse the state seal, as you said here, in Article 2? In Article 3 - the state seal is round form, diameter, and so on. In the middle of the state seal there is a large coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, around the coat of arms there is the name "Republic of Serbia", as the word "Republic" is written above the coat of arms, and the word "Serbia" below. Maybe it would be okay, but Article 7, the final position, the Constitution says -- look and use of coat of arms, flags and anthem is governed by law. We don't have that law. Instead of passing the first law on the use of coat of arms, flags and hymns, then these laws that are attached, otherwise, to that law, we don't have the law, so the coat of arms will be past the law. Let's go to the side of this: "Republic" - up, "Serbia" - down, it's long ago for you Serbia down, and it's, as yours said, the last hole in playing, but you can't play, you must finally sit down in that government, if you can even agree, to make some order of the law, and that you, MPs, do not put us in a position to make decisions about something that is not previously defined by other law. Article 6 of this Act introduces the authority of acts and decisions, as the seal gives authority to any act on which it is placed. You're letting ordinary clerks handle that seal and ordinary clerks determine which of the acts, which of the documents can bear the state seal. So you say - the secretary of the National Assembly, who is a clerk, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, who is also an official and secretary-general of the Government, together, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on these seals, on making these seals, decisions must be made by the President of the Assembly, the President of the Government, the President of the State. The officers will issue a warrant for the seals to work. The officials will decide which acts the seals will be placed on, and the state seal is the seal of the highest rank. What are the adverse consequences listed as a reason for an emergency procedure? I've already asked you that, but I don't expect you to answer. What adverse consequences have the state had so far since we didn't have a law on the use of the national seal? Also, I don't expect you to answer. We move on to this second bill - on the sealing of state and other bodies, with a proposal and so on, and so on, so that in Article 1 the public authorities - the National Assembly, the authorities of autonomous provinces, the units of local self-government, in the following text: the state and other bodies, as well as the stamps used by public agencies, public enterprises, companies. As far as public enterprises and state and business companies are concerned, above all, state-owned companies and some institutions, which, by the logic of things, had to be state authorities. I mean, flying control, the incredible robbery that's going on right now in Flight Control, and I think there should be a flight control director's selection these days and some more. One million and three hundred thousand dinars have Nikola Stankov, director of Flight Control, who is, by interest, the husband of Biljana Stankov, who was secretary in the office of the late Zoran Djindjic; now located somewhere in the government, if you haven't moved her, because here, for a year and a few days I've mentioned this incredible robbery in this agency. I don't want to tell you that he has four pairs of motor sleds, because he needs a man, he's the head of Flight Control. I'm not going to tell you that he built seven antenna pillars, with seven radars, and in his day, the former Yugoslavia, the size of it, it was only two and it worked successfully. I'm not going to tell you that their fleet looks like it's a disgrace to both the government and the Assembly, and the Presidency, to park their cars next to the flight control car and its skitters. I'm not going to tell you that the only ones who make their salary fair there are the flight controllers. I'm not going to tell you about how recently in Hayat was a promotion, and that, right at the time you boasted that the sky above Serbia was safe, that all the airships were safe, the flight control room, the hall where the operators sat, ran out of electricity and were 15 minutes deaf. I don't want to tell you about the incredible failures. I think in many companies, in many public enterprises, in many companies the state needs to control, too, robberies, huge wages and everything else. I'm talking about flying control, and it's high time someone thought of putting that Nikola Stankov and the furniture around him where they belong. We come to Article 1(2), that is, the final position. The content, appearance and use of the units' stamps and institutions of the Serbian Army is determined by the defence minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are you ready to give authority to such a defence minister, who, after that three-month course in NATO, became an all-knowing officer for the army, a courser, a man who is ready, literally, to finish the work that that Davinic from G17 started, continued pathologist Stankovic, and he finally comes to bury the Yugoslav Army? It wasn't funny at the parade, here, when only two planes and two or three helicopters could fly. We've managed to raise so many aircraft, our military capacity is so high. Officers live in extreme misery. It was once an honor to be an officer, today people begin to be ashamed of who they are. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last institution, or the last one, is the last church, you have reduced the last institution of statehood to a beggar stick, and now that minister is going to edit something. Why is there a government? Why is there a Prime Minister, especially when it comes to such an important seal and especially about such an irresponsible minister? Article 7 says - the authorities have one stamp for a chemical dye and can have one seal for a seal in the wax and for a dry print. Ladies and gentlemen, the law that says "I can" at the same time says "and I don't have to." I can have one, I can have nine stamps. Every clerk, to the porter, can have one seal in this institution, because you didn't legally define it. The officials will decide how many seals will be made. Then what does the law serve you? Why does this article 7 even exist? The law must clearly define, especially when it comes to state seals. When it comes to seals, it has to be defined that there's one, there's two, there's three, and there's a point. You can't say - you can have. He could have one, and he could be 19. The same article says - the number of copies of the seal is determined by the head of the body, i.e. the authorised body or body, the agency, the head of the agency. He can say, all my clerks should have, not to come here, but to beat stamps in the office, all the clerks, and to make them one state seal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the deadlines Mr. Martinovic mentioned, these are fundamental objections to this law. We tried the amendments to correct what you wrote from somewhere and what the minister got, because he didn't even read it; if he had read it, he wouldn't have explained it like that. If you do not accept the amendments of the SRS, the SRS will certainly not vote for this law. By the way, the company mentioned in connection with President Indija Jesic, however, is not responsible for the Democrats, he was a member of the GSS when he concluded this contract, but they bear responsibility for receiving the shovel in their ranks, it is called "The Road of Engineering", and it is owned by Mihajlo Mihajlovic. It's one of those individuals in this country who's been robbed of this "yellow democracy" most.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6938	I thank Mr. Markovic. The People's Messenger Nikola Vukelić has the word, and Sreto Peric will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill of state. We didn't have a state seal until today, so we didn't see that there were any major adverse consequences, as you say in the material. Minister Markovic today, uninterested or semi-interested, explains the proposal for a state seal law. At present, it is no longer walking in the halls, rather than sitting in the hall, instead of dealing with the adoption of key laws, local self-government laws, local elections laws and the law on the territorial organisation of the Republic, which are a condition that elections in general are held in which DS allegedly insists. Before passing any laws, why little the minister does his job and sees the disastrous situation in certain units of local self-government. In particular, why not take a moment to deal with the work of your DS party colleague, the current president of the municipality of Indji Goran Jesic? I say, a party colleague, because he became a member of the DS, right after the referendum on the adoption of the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was actively and publicly boycotted by Goran Jesic. We are witnessing that the political scene in Serbia is indeed a charm, but the current local government in India is a unique example of political prostitution. The current president of the municipality of Indjija Goran Jesic, the famous first fighter of the five-octobaric coup, shortly after October 5th, for his naked survival in power, joined the coalition with the JUL committees. He didn't mind the forces of the former regime at the time. In this term, therefore, after the 2004 local elections, he established a coalition with Sreten Jovanovic, an Indjia board member, to preserve the naked power again. Jesic and this leader of the informal interest group, Sreten Jovanovic, have not been devoid of the most brutal kidnapping of the SRS's committee and parliamentary mandates. One of the basic principles of democracy in which, in words, your party colleague from DS Goran Jesic swears, is respect for the will of the voters, and it is, in its theft, in the most primitive and brutal manner, affected. The whole of Indjia knows what pressures the SRS committees were under, from threats and blackmail to attempted bribery. Thus, a security citizen filmed Jesic's coalition partner, Srecko Jovanovic, as he promised everything and everything only to leave the SRS parliamentary group in talks with SRS. Olga Pejakovic was moral, so she rejected Jesic and Jovanovic's tempting financial offers. Some councilmen, pressured by a difficult financial situation, bowed to their pressures. We can thank Jesic and Jovanovic for freeing us from these religious members and for not wasting our words at all, mentioning enough that they broke their oath in the church and abandoned their ideology and, in some ways, that's not the problem. A man can change his political opinion, he can change his political position, but it is immoral to trade those mandates and try to sew on something you got thanks to strangers. Now local self-government minister Markovic is working hard to legalise the robbery of parliamentary mandates, so he sent a letter saying that these defectors should remain in office. Where did Jesic and Jovanovic get funds for bribing the board? Among other things, from the sale of land in Indjija, done by Jesic and Jovanovic. So they brought their people, Ana Nebesnik and Milan Kuprešanin, who sold Sreten Jovanovic to two plots of building land of 140,000 square meters in early 2006 at a price of just 46 dinars per square metre. Then, on the cost of the municipality, complete infrastructure was built on these parcels, to sell the land afterwards, but this time at 8.5 euros per metre square metre. Now imagine the difference between 46 dinars and 8.5 euros per metre square! There are countless examples of land resales. For example, at the end of 2005, a decision by the Indji Municipality Directorate was given to 99 years of Mercator, allegedly an undeveloped building land, on which there were, in fact, three companies that housed public enterprises. The building was torn down and charged for the destruction of the company Ival Komertz, whose owner, Sreten Jovanovic, is again. It is not such a problem that Sreten Jovanovic is a coalition partner, Goran Jesic, but the question is, how can the city's unbuilt land be considered the land on which buildings, or buildings, were built for 80 years, which, by the way, were cultural and historical monuments? It is evident that if you are in Indjia coalition partner Goran Jesic, then you can do anything and you can do it any way you want. Rest assured, you won't be able to get as far as you want, because, gentlemen of the DS, the local elections are getting closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6940	I thank the People's MP, Nikola Vukelic. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6941	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because some of the gentlemen from the SRS have mixed up some of the things in India. What you're talking about, Mr. Jesic, it's not my idea to defend. That's your problem, and his. What you're saying about Mr. Sreten Jovanovic is simply not true. It's about the chairman of the Municipal Committee of the SPS. I don't mind your performance methodology for this pay phone, but you're bringing up some things that are simply not true. First of all, the SPS is out of power in India. How do they get home and what do they do? If what you're saying is true, file criminal charges. I'm saying that what you put out for the chairman of the municipal SPS board is not true. The transition of some SRS committees to the SPS ranks is much better than the transition of them to your DS ranks. Why are they unhappy? Sit down and talk to them. In order not to radicalise us and the socialists continue the controversy, I strongly advise you not to mention Mr. Srecko Jovanovic anymore, because then I will begin to mention the parcels from some other environments, and then you will see that we are not all, perhaps, just so morally. So, I'm here to be a member of the SPS... You owe me a lot more than that. )......................................................................................................... But not to you, and be cultural. So don't be polite to you, no matter what you're from the SRS. So, I'd like to, if you have arguments relating to the chairman of the Municipal Committee of the SPS, Sreten Jovanovic of Indjia, to address us as your coalition partners, so that we can discuss this, instead of putting a man in a story here that doesn't stand. As for Goran Jesic, go ahead, deal with him as much as you want. That's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6942	Replica was reported by MP Nikola Vukelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mr. Bajatovic recognized himself in my presentation. I had no intention of mentioning the SPS council group or, in general, the SPS, but Sreten Jovanovic as an individual. You say you're not in power. How, then, is it possible that you're not in power and you have directors in public enterprises? For example, Uroš Curuvija is the director of the Indji Municipality Directorate, your member. How many people do you have on boards in the Indji municipality? I'm sorry, I'm aware that because of party discipline and function, you must defend Srecko Jovanovic, but you must accept that every grain has a weed in it. Do not worry about the situation in the municipal board of the SRS, you better deal with the situation of the municipal board of the SPS and how members leave you and how long you groomed your committee groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6944	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6945	I have no intention of continuing this controversy, I just want to say next. In India we are not in power and sir, the mentioned director of a public utility company is not a member of the SPS. As they function in local self-government, here you go, and interpret it. Wolfie, I'm saying he's not a member, since you're asking your man. How the local self-government in India works, if all you've said is true, file criminal charges. It's the essence of things. If all this is done by Srecko Jovanovic, Goran Jesic and whoever you want, file criminal charges. Don't talk about what business is; he bought a man a few years ago something at one price and now he sold it on the other. There are some investments in India, if they're controversial, let's open them all. There are 420m euros in investment, they say there are two and a half thousand jobs. If what is said is true, let us also open up the debate about our President, Mr. Sredko Jovanovic, and say that he is a thief, if he is, but I say he is not, and that some of the allegations that are spoken here are not true. That's all I wanted to tell you. If you want to continue the controversy, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6946	Mr. Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to be honest, I didn't understand what all the words were about, nor do I know any of the people mentioned, or, I don't know any of them. I would lie if I said I knew any Jovanovic, Ivanovic, Markovic or I don't know any of them from India. Of course, I'm quite certain that everything the representative of the SRS said is true, but I came out just because of that Indjia, which you were talking about, because I know the situation on a global scale and I know Mr. Jesic. So, as far as big investment and the community of view, what's the trick, how's the DS doing, and why is it doing it? It's a phenomenal question, first of all. So we took one municipality, which we will show to all Serbia as the greatest and most beautiful treasure, with no serious indicators, no indicators of production, no indicators of investment growth, no serious indicators of human employment, nothing at all, but it is important to talk about India and to say that the situation there is wonderful, and otherwise, especially in their environment, nothing is right. I received an unfair warning this morning, although I will not continue this story until the competent state authorities have investigated it to the end. With certain documentation, I came to the president of the National Assembly, and I handed it over to him to convince him that I wasn't making anything up and that I wasn't lying. This isn't about business, getting something lower and selling at a higher price. It's a store. On the same principle, banking works. Whatever you want. It's a job that would be normal, but it's not normal when, with the support of the government, you get something for a dollar, and then, with the support of the government, you sell it for a hundred dinars. Then it's a mob business, anyway, not a business. Otherwise, we in the SRS have great respect for people who are in business, who are involved in making profits, creating excess values, but we cannot allow them to have the right and possibility of those who are most incompetent, or less capable of making profits, and are only capable of thieving, robbing and for nothing more. What was said here about Dusan Kaljevic and the whole story about Red hot peppers is, absolutely, a small thing compared to this story with the company "Tesline", and these are all small things compared to other things Jesic himself did in India. But that's the way. We prefer to talk about what we've done and, as you said in one ad, "one "yes" is better than a thousand "no". In that sense, this 'bad community', as it represents B 92, RTS and I don't know which other televisions, I'll repeat it once again, although there are 25,000 more, there are 1,500 less unemployed, there are 8.3 times more consumption of industrial electricity. The municipality, reportedly poor compared to the beautiful and outstanding Indji municipality, has investments increased by 11.5 times compared to when the Democratic Party was in power, and not only it, but also its partners today in the government of the Republic of Serbia. They're pure numbers. I can give them to you. So, out of 184 million dinars from early 2004, budgeted in 2003, there were billions and 312 million. New roads were built: Surduk - Slankamen, road from Stara Pazova to Corridor 10, asphalt was changed over 90% of all regional, inter-urban and local roads, 12 major streets were paved in the settlements of the municipality, two new intersections were constructed at the location of the old road Belgrade - Novi Sad, the Soda-So intersection and the intersection at Elektrometal, on the same road. The investment funds have invested 360m dinars in the construction of a sewage network, created over 2,000 new connections, and further 1550 connections are under construction. Four sports halls are being built at the moment: in Belegis, Surduk, Stari Paz and Vojka. I must remind you, not as it turned out in Lapov, to remind the Serbian government that some DS representatives attacked the DSS, spoke sharply about the crime of certain ministers, even of Mr Vuksanovic's crime, which surprised me, that 2m euros had been allocated without a single meter being moved in the works and that nothing had been done. Where did that 2 million euros go? Nothing's gone here. As you can see, it's building and doing. That's the kind of Serbia we want in the SRS. I went out because I started the whole theme yesterday. I accept it's my fault. I started the whole theme about the story of Paz - Indji, because I understood this kind of global fraud that seems to be at Serbia's level and that deception is the worst kind. So, uh, we have a wonderful Indjia. and everything else is bad, and then you compare the data and you see that the situation is really the other way around, and then you see who's really working, who's doing much less and who's doing almost nothing. I started it because one man, you can find faults, every one of us has faults, no one's ideal, there's no perfect man, you'll find them for me - from arrogance to not knowing what, I can tell someone this or that, call them a thief. You can say anything to Sr. Komazec, but you can't tell him he's a thief, because he's a man who refused to accept a lot of money. You know what I'm talking about, you all know in this room, you know how it goes for land. I'm sure everyone here knows, I think there are representatives of other parties who can confirm it, just in his case. I don't know if they want to do it or not right now, I'm not going to call them, because I know that they know that, too, because I know how and through whom some people wanted to do certain things, to do some things, but that money at Srđa Komazec couldn't be done. This must end in accordance with the law, in accordance with all that Mr. Markovic and the DOS government do not respect today. So for us, the Constitution and the laws are fundamental, I would say, acting, in accordance with civilizational norms, but morality, honor and honesty are much more important than anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6948	I thank Mr. Wolf. According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Sajn appeared, and then MP Slobodan Gavrilovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to comment on one thing, regarding the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225th and 226, and today's Presom, which says, "Agoston doesn't want a Roma ghetto." Before I say it, Mr. Laszlo Varga, it's probably your fault, because you took Mr. Agoston's voters, so now he has to fight for local elections to spread this kind of news; he hopes that if he didn't enter the Republic Parliament, he'll probably win power somewhere in the bar. It's about the next one. Mr Agoston says the president of the DSVM sent a letter to the Hungarian authorities and asked the Hungarian authorities to take an interest in what Serbia wants Roma returning from the readmission to municipalities such as Subotica. Among other things, he says it is very dangerous here, that it is a great danger that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to legalise some Roma settlements and that Roma continue to live concentrated where they are. I really don't know if we can call him a better name than names I don't like to use for this congregation speaker, but yesterday I heard that it's some neo-Nazis, etc. I can't understand a man who insists that the Hungarian animal concentrates in certain environments and lives in a large number, such as Fatty in the Kovačica municipality, or Subotica, as well as some other places with which the Roma have very good relations and co-operation, with which they live in harmony. Then why doesn't he say he doesn't want other minorities living in ghettos, but he's found, right, to say, Roma shouldn't live in the ghetto. It probably bothers him because then Roma, who respect the Hungarian national community so much that even Hungarian languages speak well, even learn in schools in Hungarian, in an easier way politically to break down, so when it is in every Shore by two or three houses, they will be able to tell them nice stories, as he has tried, perhaps, in some other elections, so that he can get into Parliament. In this regard, I ask the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office to study and call on the President of the Assembly to send a letter to the MUP in the form of a question, to examine all its allegations and to see if there are any elements to the spread of national hatred and intolerance. Because, as the elections come, we've had enough of it, so someone's spreading some ideas that he's bigger Hungarian than everyone else, that he's bigger Roma than everyone else and "he doesn't care" about what happens tomorrow with Serbia and whether Serbian citizens are going to have some problems tomorrow or not. To conclude this - I support all those who fight against the violent settlement of any territory in Serbia, but I cannot agree with those who bring such statements to fear among citizens and influence the citizens of Serbia that they cannot have a free choice when deciding where to settle. Tomorrow someone will tell me that I can't live in Belgrade, or I can't live in Nis, or I can't live on another part of Serbia's territory, because I'm not answering someone, because in some local government or in the Serbian Parliament there's going to be one Roma less or more, or somewhere there's got to be one Hungarian more or less, or there's got to be three Serbs less, so we can run some other policy. So, I expect, I am speaking from this speaker to the MUP, that this case is being investigated and certain information is being provided, because we all here in the Parliament of Serbia and all state authorities have to fight that sort of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6950	We thank Mr. Srdjan Shin. The People's MP Slobodan Gavrilovic, then, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, came forward, MP Dusan Bajatovic, i.e. the replica to Mr Sajn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6951	Mr. Goran Jesic, president of the Indjia municipality, is a capable, young manager and what he is doing in Indjia these years, and until he was a member of the DS, and when he is, he will best defend his name, his integrity and the development policy he is leading, in order to show that Serbia's demetropolisation is in the right way, which expresses the value system, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, transparency, in order to show what it really is. That it is not something that is lonely in Serbia, I will remind the Caves, a place where the president of the DS municipality, where over 200m euros have been invested over the past three years, where the direct investment of companies from the US, Canada, Great Britain, SR Germany, Italy, Slovenia, and Soko Sturk are moving there. When the whole process is over, and it's almost complete, this isn't a fairy tale and it's not a draft story, 1,850 people will have a job -- in one place that otherwise has just over 10,000 full-time citizens, or voters. I was looking for a replica and I got it, I didn't ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Or, let's say, the Vlasotins, in which in 15 years before our president, no foot of asphalt road was built, it was built for three years less than 100 thousand square meters. Check out the sports hall, the cattle market and the plan, which is very important, for water supply not only of the Vlasotina, but also of the surrounding villages, as well as for the sewerage network for the entire municipality, and not just for the city settlement and the city core. This speaks of a serious DS policy, which demetropolises through urbanisation, spatial planning, direct investment and transparency of what appears to be. Next time, we'll be able to list a dozen more of these municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6952	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Slobodan Gavrilovic. For his word, he answered the line, Mr. Srdjan Sajn, Mr. Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6953	Mr. Chairman, we may not have understood each other very well on the basis, but I am reporting that I should further inform the MPs and support what Mr. Shane was saying, as I say, for those who may be less familiar with the fact that there is a Fund in Vojvodina to help refugees and displaced persons. There is a certain amount of money to be shared, so that people who are housed in collective accommodations can buy properties, houses in the Vojvodina villages, which are empty, and start to deal with agriculture. It seems to me that it is quite correct and no matter who is in power, such a fund exists and such a project exists. It's not just the Democratic Party, and we voted for it, as an SPS, but it's not important now, but it's important that someone in Vojvodina, in minority areas, if a man of Serbian nationality wants to buy a house, declares it a change of ethnic structure. I really want to say from this pay phone that this is happening in Vojvodina, in practice, and that it's not good. If we are thinking civilly, if we are thinking well and economically healthy, then I guess it's good that these people come to these abandoned villages, to these abandoned fields, to design their own properties, to process this country, to have their children grow there, and not to have this mechanical inflow of the population in Vojvodina, which is not caused by it, I don't know if there's any need to remind myself, that people have voluntarily decided to move somewhere, but rather, the trouble, the war, the bombing and everything else has made them leave their homes, you know where, in one and the other region, Republika Srpska, Bosnia, Kosovo, now challenges them. Therefore, I think it would be very good for some media and some of the consequences of public words, as well as those who make statements to those same media, to pay attention to the fact that it is not possible, on the one hand, to be democratic, to advocate civil society, or as we want to call it, to advocate good democratic norms, human, minority and all other rights, and, on the other hand, to fear whether someone will move to my village, to make small money, because it cannot in some more developed environment, buy a house and start its own, most often, agricultural property. Unfortunately, in Vojvodina, according to some of my statistics, at least 17 municipalities, of the 45, have begun practically to die out, because they have no human potential, they have a large migration of young people and there is simply no job. I would really like to, perhaps this is also a small abuse of today's session, to warn that it is not good that in the media such a phenomenon -- that people come to villages where cheap properties are, where cheap houses are, declares some kind of change of ethnic structure. No way. I think that's positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6954	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, today we have a united debate on two draft laws on the agenda. This is the proposal for a law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a law on the seal of state and other bodies. You can see that the SRS isn't always against joining agenda points, because it's natural to discuss this at the same time. This time, I will not talk about the intricacies of Minister Milan Markovic, the minister of state administration and local self-government, but it would not be bad if the suggestions given to him by the SRS representative on these points of the agenda were adopted and accepted. What's this about? Minister Markovic, and to remind the citizens, is the minister who is his right to sign, as Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, first used it to sign an act renaming some streets. Thus, when Serbian citizens expected that the new government, with the new state administration minister and local self-government, would start to resolve some problems, and that the minister would make a slightly greater contribution in those local environments where, for a long time, in some and more than a year, there were temporary authorities of the administration, that the problem was slowly resolved, he found it appropriate and as the most priority task to sign the renaming of the streets. But we're not dealing with his activities, we're dealing with the following. He showed up here as a law reader. At the very least, there's no need to do that, because the MPs of the SRS, I guess others, but I won't argue, they're reading the legal proposals they're getting. For us it is an obligation, we are responsible people, first of all, and it is also an obligation for the citizens of Serbia that the job they chose us for and showed us trust we are doing the best possible way. That is why it does not need to appear to us as a reader of these laws, and certainly there was a need to give us reasons for some legislative proposals, or some of the standards provided for by these laws, and to spend our time, and also our time, the money of Serbian citizens, in a much more efficient way. Before I comment on certain specific provisions in these legal proposals, I must say that the SRS is not, in principle, against the regulation of seals by the legal text. Is at this time, that's another question. For this government of the Republic of Serbia and some of its ministers, the day they were elected, that night, after a night's sleepover, it would be best if they went to a good host, to any village in Serbia, or perhaps even to the city, to see how he solves some problems, how he runs his house and his household, and in such a way to try to work in Serbia. Because we have today on the agenda the law on the seal of the Republic of Serbia, we haven't had it yet, and we've worked. The Law on State Authorities was from 1991, I'm not saying that it should stay forever, with the help of this law this matter should be regulated, but I don't think that's what's most important. Serbian citizens expect us here to talk about how to improve conditions for their lives. You are an eyewitness that from day to day, their standard of living is getting worse and worse, and life is getting harder and harder and even younger. There's a large number of extremely talented youth and children who, because of their parents' inability to train them, can't attend anything but elementary school. Proposal for a law on the seal of the Republic of Serbia. The minister said it was a new category, which is true, and that this seal has more of a solemn character. To accept that part, but it is entirely justified to comment on Article 2, which said that in addition to the three institutions that will use this seal, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is also required. I, as our distinguished colleague, Jorgenka Tabakovic always does, will try to make an argument to show it, namely to bind Mr Martinovic's claim to the justice minister's answer to the question he asked on July 23rd 2007. Petar Jojic is a prominent, graduate lawyer, former SRJ justice minister, one of the exceptional lawyers, and when he asked Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic about the work of the Constitutional Court, how many cases he comes in a year, how many cases he has solved, all the problems that need to be solved, the minister's answer was - the government within its jurisdiction, as the executive body, as the justice ministry, does not have the data that are the subject of the parliamentary issue. So here's the real reason, here's the basis for Mr. Martinovic's claim and remark, which is proposed in the form of amendments, to accept that this law has its own meaning. What shape is, what size is the state seal, it's something that can be a little bigger, a little smaller, but I don't think that's something to waste a lot of time on. I'm sure it's a 7th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 5, stipulates that a special law should be passed that regulates the characteristics of the Serbian state and only then could the law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia be on the agenda. It is another proof that the government of Vojislav Kostunica is not working according to priority, but simply, as someone suggests or, since we have two, perhaps even three governments, as they manage to agree, and the price of all this is paid by Serbian citizens. In Article 6 of this Act, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic and the Secretary-General of the Government shall submit, jointly, a request for the establishment of the national seal. In his explanation, the minister said, for reasons that it would not happen if one seal were smaller by one millimeter or greater -- we want unequivocalness, and that for the MPs of the SRS and for the citizens of Serbia is not of particular importance, but I think something else is at stake here. Because of the mistrust, or lack of trust in each other, because at this point we have representatives from different political parties in these places, we want to do something at the same time. Just to remind you what the text of the Labour Act went to us from the National Assembly, across the street to the President of the Republic, so he signed, so he didn't sign, so they were returning something, and I guess the conditions here were mature, that someone realized that there might be abuse, and then this Article 6 predicted that at the same time, and probably, together, they go to the stamp, they carry the same text, I don't know how many vehicles, how many securitys, wait for the seal to be finished, and then they go back to where those seals would be used. I don't think that's necessary. It seems to me that my colleague Markovic indicates that after the adopted and adopted law, if so, two agencies will be formed, one for small ones, and one for large stamps. I hope it doesn't come to that. That would be too unserious for such an unserious government as it is. At the beginning of my presentation, when I pointed out that the minister had a role as a reader of the bill, I will explain it specifically to you in one of these members of the law on the seal of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, he explains why it is necessary to vote on an urgent procedure, or pass this law, and says the Republic of Serbia and state authorities will have enormous damage if the law is not adopted by emergency procedure. Maybe he will, maybe he won't. I don't think my colleague Gavrilovic knows what could be a concrete damage, and if the minister had explained it and explained it, which was supposed to be his task, and not to tell us what was provided for in the bill, we might be able to accept it, so let's say, we'll do it, we'll stay here day and night, to pass those laws that regulate it, but I don't think it's a matter, but to create an illusion that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing a large number of laws. Basically, citizens have nothing to do with it, because if an analysis of everything that has been on the agenda in this high house so far was carried out, it would be very easy and effortless to determine that this is not of great importance for the citizens of Serbia, and therefore for our time, because we are their representatives here. When it comes to the draft law on the sealing of state and other bodies, my colleagues from the SRS spoke of the position of Article 2 of this law, which states -- content, appearance and use of the seals of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army are determined by the defence minister. We are explicitly against leaving it in jurisdiction, at least this and this, the defence minister, and for that we have enough arguments and concrete reasons. Remember those people in Kursumlia, I do not enter into the justification of these demands, i.e. the justification of all demands, but remember that the minister kept avoiding them, which is his obligation, to show a minimum of goodwill and to accept the conversation with them, so on the show of a radio station, whose name I will not mention not to advertise them, the question of the host - whether he would visit those who strike in Kursumlia, said he would not, he would not. It seems to me that under someone's pressure he did it, however, on the same day, or the next day, without giving serious chances and some hope that this problem would be solved, so in that story he tried to drag in Reverend General Bozidar Delic, as if he had something to do with it, and after this speaker, I mean General Delic, he said that things were happening and what was happening. It is unacceptable for us to regulate the shape, appearance and way of using the Republic of Serbia's military seal to be in the power of the defence minister. Article 14 deserves to be a little commentary. It is said that the disappearance or loss of the seal shall be notified without delay to the Ministry, or to the competent authority. I'm just going to make an addition. Col. Martinovic also said this is "no delay" indefinitely, not precise enough. Remember that in this House we have MPs and parliamentary groups who do not even verbally advocate Kosovo and Metohija's stay in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, so you can think, if they came into possession of such a seal, what would they be willing to do? Therefore, we insist that this deadline be reduced to the minimum possible period of time, so that abuses do not occur. In order to see how and how seriously this government and this ministry are doing, I must comment on the response to Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic's parliamentary question. Although the master of technical sciences, he is a model agricultural producer and shares the fates of people from Machva, Podrinj, Posavina, Tamnave, so he asked a parliamentary question - what did the government and the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry do about the strike of agricultural producers, i.e. the producer of tow pigs? The issue is no longer so current, but the response given by the government, or the Ministry, deserves a comment. The answer is - The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has come to the meeting of every request of masculine cattlemen to hold meetings with representatives of competent institutions, by indicating certain arrangements. But it is not enough for these agricultural producers, nor are many citizens of Serbia. It's not just enough for someone to take them in, though sometimes they're happy after the fact that someone took them in. This government, the Ministry, like us MPs, should do as much as we can, with those who sit on this side certainly being able to influence more and more to act, because they certainly promised in the election campaign, so they should repay those who ask for a vote in some way. It seems that you are not doing so, as Minister Markovic has since he sat in that chair, I don't know if she's so beautiful and so significant, he's completely changed, so there's no better one who promised Serbian citizens. The only thing left to do is stay there for that period. However, it is indefinitely time, I don't think it will last long, that some elections, which will come very soon, will show that those who are now sitting and representing the state of Serbia, water, decide on behalf of citizens, will not do so in a good way, so there will have to be a change, because Serbia and its citizens deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6956	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Sreti Periæ. The Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of Lasslo Varga. Let Mr. Bozidar Delic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6957	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in connection with Article 225. The Rules of Procedure and I would like to give an explanation to Mr. Shine and Mr. Bayatovic regarding the newspaper article Mr. Shane quoted. I don't think it's my job at all, and I don't want to interpret and defend Mr. Agosten, but I think there are some things mixed in the earlier discussion, that, practically, the MPs didn't understand what he said. Namely, they spoke of the right to settle, which is an undisputed constitutional right, but the statement speaks of another provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I would like to read now. In accordance with Article 78(3), Article 78 of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prohibited from taking measures that would cause the artificial change of the national composition of the population in areas where members of national minorities live traditionally and in significant numbers. I don't think this constitutional ban should be disputed either. If this so-called. The readmission agreement will be implemented in accordance with this Article of the Constitution, then we will have no objection, but if the Government takes any measures that would mean violating this provision of the Constitution, then we will most vigorously oppose it. I think it's our constitutional right to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6958	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Sajn, then MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6959	I'd just like to clarify a few things about these Rules of Procedures 225 and 226. First, I'm going to have to read slowly what it's about, and it's about Mr. Agosten. He says the grave danger is the letters of the director of the Human and Minority Rights Service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Petar Ladjevic and Minister Velimir Ilic, who were sent to 39 municipalities on September 11th, which are urged to consider the possibility of legalisation. You can't legalize the settlement of those people who come from the reading process. You legalize a settlement that exists, a settlement that is there, you legalize houses that have already been built, and you don't legalize people's thoughts, now I'm going to say, his thought is legal, because he wants to come live in Subotica. So it's about legalization. You are right that in the Constitution it is defined and I agree with you, and all the people in this room agree with you that you should respect the Constitution, but you cannot respect the opinion of someone who will not legalize the settlement, which has all the legal assumptions, just because they are Roma. The second thing, in the readmission process, is not only Roma return to Serbia, 50,000 is Roma, there are 100,000 members of other national communities coming back, but he says here that not only the Roma. He doesn't mind 10,000 Askali, he doesn't mind 50 or 100,000 Serbs, who will return because they can't return to Kosovo, he's not bothered by Vlas, only the Roma bother him. What's the point of that? It is not the essence that only Roma bother him, but it is the essence that he is hitting on the weak, because he thinks he can and must not strike against those politically organized and strong, because he is a political coward to bring out what is written in the Constitution, to demand it consistently and to say - the state authorities should consistently implement the Constitution, the state authorities should consistently implement the policy. But he wouldn't mind the big political parties, because he expects tomorrow, when he's in power, to work with everyone a little bit, as he's done so far, and these Roma aren't so important. It is that there are half a million of them, but there's no one to talk about them, that's what this is about. That's all I wanted to explain, Mr. Varga. I agree with you that the Constitution should be respected. I am in favour of the Constitution, and I think the entire Assembly of Respect for the Constitution, however, what Mr. Agoston is talking about, is not respect for the Constitution, but, if that is his opinion, it is very bad, so the question is which party he is running and what kind of party is it, like that commitment. I expect members of his party to be fenced from this, as DSS members have been fenced from statements by their MPs, and I expect Serbia to have as little in the future as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6960	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic. Just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure you're advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6961	I don't know which member, but it's about me being misread, because we're making up what we need here anyway, it doesn't matter if it's 225 or 104 or 101. Mr. Varga, I want to tell you that you have misread me, although you have very correctly interpreted the position of the Constitution which, as you remember, has practically supported all relevant political parties in this House. I'm under the impression that you're hypersensible on the subject. You know, if in some town of three thousand people, the average small village in Vojvodina, the middle village, five families with four members, that's 20 people. You can't fight this as ethnic cleansing, or change of ethnic structure. Come on, don't talk like that. That's ridiculous. I am very grateful to you, if I understand you very well, that you have kind of fenced yourself from Mr. Agosten's statement, because I have only warned that in some means of public information, probably because of the intaluation of journalists or, God forbid, some other feature of an editor of some of the means of public information, such a burden will arise that it will change some ethnic structure. They won't, these few families, wherever they come, won't change the ethnic structure. It's not war anymore, it's not migration that's going to cause NATO bombs and things like that, it's about how we solve the social issues of the people we're talking about. Please, does anyone want to tell me what the difference is, even if it was in a democratic society, between a hungry Serb and a hungry Hungarian? What is the difference between the unemployed Roma, however, is a little more trouble, the unemployed Hungarian, the Serb and the Slovak, and what differs from the crying of children whose parents do not have milk in the morning? So don't, no matter what the Constitution says, show hypersensitivity to something that doesn't endanger us. Even when you go to the lab, the doctor, there's a doctor here, so they take out some bacteria, and they say, over 100,000 bacteria, we give antibiotics, and up to 100,000 -- we don't give, because you're not considered sick. You can give other examples in medicine. I just wanted to warn the MPs and the public that there is no such tendency in Serbia and that there is no need for any internationalisation of the Vojvodina issue, which does not fall on your party's mind, but on the other hand, because it is an imaginary question, as there is no need for monitoring international relations in Vojvodina, I think, some on the side, because they are quite good. If we are talking about relations in a society that is governed by democratic principles, on the principles of a civil state, then we should have equal responsibility both you and I, and each other, regardless of what nationality is, and that these relations remain good. Sometimes hypersensitivity really isn't as good as a political message, because maybe it says that you're overly sensitive to things.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6962	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, and let the MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6963	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been calling upon this House almost ever since the very beginning of the work, there is always a problem with the violation of certain provisions of the Constitution. If you read this constitution, you will find many places to say, in the Constitution or constitutional law, that certain questions will be settled by the laws that this congregation should adopt. In Article 7. The constitution is said that the Republic of Serbia has its coat of arms, flag and anthem, and in the last position it is said that it will all be established and governed by the law that is to be passed by this assembly. We're already passing several laws where one way or another the coat of arms is used, and we don't have that law that had to precede all these laws. Last time, when it came to the MUP, I was saying that we, as MPs, had some of our powers passed on to us by those who chose us for this assembly very easily to pass on to individual ministers. I don't think that's good practice. As my colleague Peric said, it is already said in the first article that this law regulates the purpose, content, appearance and use of the seal, so that it would be said in an explanation of Article 1 that the bill provides that the seal, established by law, is used by state authorities, and that is the National Assembly, President of the Republic, Government, State Administration Authorities, Citizens' Protector, Army of Serbia. I will point out, that I do not list any further, that this law determines and what kind of seal the President of the Republic will have, and what kind of seal the Assembly of the Republic will have. We have even said that we are establishing and what kind of seal the Army will have, and then we return to Article 1 of the last position, where it is said: content, appearance and use of the seals of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army are determined by the defence minister. If we, gentlemen, had written that the Law on the Army and the Law on Defence would have regulated this question, let's say that we would be right and we wouldn't have broken the Constitution more than we did in these previous laws. We, gentlemen, give the minister the authority to have him decide on the seal and coat of arms by means of a sublegal act. You know that ministers do not pass laws, that is, everything that the ministers, through their proposals, propose to the Assembly, the ruling coalition majority adopt, so that it turns out that the ministers, practically, write the laws, and adopt them here and through us. It's already been said here that this is not a good practice at all. With that in mind, article 24 speaks at what time Mr. Minister is obliged to determine what that seal will look like. Given that, gentlemen, particularly the MPs from the Democratic Party know this, I am primarily talking to them, that the Serbia-Montenegro Army, through the minister, the Chief of Staff and all other people, are directly in the hands of the Democratic Party, working in this way, you simply want to push the issue of the Army to the margins. The army is very important, not to say one of the most important state institutions. What, gentlemen, in recent years, has been called Army reform, I say responsibly and openly, is the destruction of this state institution. That was done by all previous ministers, headed by the current president of the state, or starting with him, by Mr. Tadic, and now Sutanovac. Now, while we're sitting in this room, we're dealing with the issue of military education. Hundreds of people will be fired, which are military, which are military personnel from military school, a large number of doctors of science; it turns out that doctors are excess science for the military. It's not a problem, people will manage, most of them have found an arrest in various, which to the state colleges, which, however, the military itself, is coming into a situation that may not be able to get their only high school institution - the Military Academy, certified by law, because they won't have enough doctors of science, who had previously released a series of water and fired from their composition, and none of them meet the legal requirements to be retired. They are all retired under conditions established by people from the Democratic Party, regardless of whether they are at the post of minister or as president of the state. Such playing with army personnel has not been recorded in any serious state so far, gentlemen. The military has been reforming itself for years, I have already said, since it came to its head as the minister of Tadic, without any strategic and reform document. Such volunteerism, gentlemen, takes place here in front of all of us, but we are not all equally responsible. Because if we tell you 10 times about this speaker, and it turns out that today, practically, it doesn't have any effect, then I just want, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, to say that you, primarily DS, and then the ruling majority, are responsible for everything that's going on in the Army. First it destroyed the operational composition of the army and the army was reduced to several brigades, which are absolutely unusable. He can tell the Chief of Staff or anyone in the Army that they're A-classes, high martial arts, and I'm going to tell you that there's no training in them, that they're dealing with themselves and that almost everything is in one mess. No one is sure of their fate in the Army. When that operational part of the army, which was most important for some, was destroyed, and when the battle technique of the military was cut, there was an education. And the health care has already been hit. The military-medical academy is no longer in segments, as it was before, one of the country's first medical institutions. It also has personnel, but this budget has led to, say, top-notch personnel in certain areas, because of outdated equipment, it cannot provide assistance not only to military insurance, but also to Serbian citizens, although it has the best experts in certain areas and implements certain procedures only in the Balkans. We've reached military school. And military institutes, military-history, military-geographical and military-technical, fired many of their doctors of science and their researchers. Apparently, we don't even need that, because we're going to buy high-tech technology, so here we are, in all these years we haven't bought a single asset. School and health care have been destroyed, and what is left of your army, gentlemen? There's talk of a professionalization of the Army. I repeat, under these circumstances, there can be no professionalization of the Army, it needs to have recruits and people training for defence after 2010. I wanted to mention another segment of the Army. You all know that there was a category of reserve or, as we would say, a reserve and a reserve army. The category is being rapidly destroyed, i.e. the records of that category of reserve soldiers have been destroyed lately. We're talking about a category of active reserve. And, well, we were so smart as to rewrite everything from the Americans, so we took that term, because that term exists with them. They said we had enough of this army of twenty or twenty-five thousand, another five thousand, and they could increase it to 10,000 active reserves. What's this all about? I don't think I should explain it to you. That, after all, and every citizen of Serbia who looks at us should conclude -- to what level it goes. Here, I have in my office a document that our army has recently prescribed strategic documents from various armies from various, even neighbouring countries. We have come to copy from the Army of Albania as well. Gentlemen, I have a document, I've already shown it on TV, but it's sad. It is unfortunate if we have come to the conclusion that, in addition to so many doctors of sciences we have in the military, some reporting procedures that are absolutely no newspaper for us, we prescribe a rule of the Albanian army. We previously copied something from Croatia, something from BiH, and when decisions were made on the numerous size of our army and other standards, for all these other armies that were formed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, our army was a standard. We have now come to overwrite these strategic documents from them. They certainly cannot be copied, because, unlike these countries, or the countries created in the former Yugoslavia, we are the country with the biggest security problems and with the biggest security challenges. That's why our strategic documents, our evaluations, must be, at least now, and probably in due course, and in the next ten years, quite different and have to suit the situation that exists in our country. I, gentlemen, warn you that you should take steps to put volunteerism in the Army's reform finally under control. If it cannot be controlled by the government, under the control of these ministers, then the Assembly, as the most legislative body, should, after all, organise a discussion on where our army and our defences are going, and take action to finally stop this steep fall of the military.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6964	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6965	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, the minister is gone, he probably thinks he knows this matter better than all of us sitting here. The essence of our objections to these two draft laws was presented as an authorised representative of the SRS. Now I'm going to take the opportunity to say something else about the draft law on the seal of state and other bodies. It's just amazing what arguments are coming into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it's just amazing that the minister obviously doesn't know what the reasons are for coming before the MPs. The reasons for the adoption of the law on the sealing of national and other bodies, in the opinion of the promoters, are: the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. Imagine the termology – “work of organs and organizations”. No organs, no organization. In fact, this law is necessary without delay. Once again, a legal standard from the law, no delay; the law came into assembly procedure in August, and now it's October 2nd. It's theirs - without delay. Then, "to ensure the official use of the seals established by this law in the work of state and other bodies and public authorities throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia". Someone who doesn't know how the state administration works and who isn't a lawyer, might think that the Republic of Serbia has so far had no law that regulates the use of the seals of state and other bodies, so it is now necessary to pass the law by force of God, by emergency procedure, so that the state does not suffer adverse consequences. If that were not the case, the motionor himself testified, as he says - in the reasons for the law being passed - the applicable law on the sealing of state and other bodies was passed in 1991, so it was necessary to comply with the Constitution and new system laws in the field of state administration. I don't know, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, I hope that the ladies sitting in the front row will pass it on to him, at which points it is, and in which provisions the applicable law on the sealing of state and other bodies is incompatible with the new constitution of Serbia and with what they say is new system laws in the field of state administration. It turns out that in 1991, it's in some 12th, 13th century, so now it's time to pass a new law. We were able to hear from DS MPs today how the law was passed in 1991. That was a long time ago. It's a long time ago, a dark regime and so on, so now it takes us, as a new democratic authority, to pass a new law on the seal of state and other bodies. I would like to remind the few MPs of the ruling coalition sitting here that, for example, an integral element of the English constitutional system is an act called the Magna Carta libertatum, the Grand Charter of Freedom, which was brought in June 1215. Let me remind you, it's a time when he lived St. Sava. No one in England thinks to say -- you know, it's brought in in the Middle Ages, in the Middle Ages are burned witches at the stake, let's bring in a whole new act. And we say, the Law of 1991, nothing wrong, let us now pass some better law. That, at least, among the MPs, a more quality bill arrived, so let's say, it is better, no, but most of the new provisions are, in fact, worse than the solutions contained in the current law. I well-intentioned Minister Markovic, I don't know how he realized it, said the deadlines contained in the seal law must be as short as possible. Too long deadlines provide an opportunity for abuse. Who knows what can happen in practice if an act is stamped illegally. It can also question the lives of people, property, security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and so on. You put three days, ten days, and so on. The Minister can't be any more than a protection of public interest. Public interest, science proved it and practice proved it, best protected by short deadlines. It's a well-known principle that it's a deadline that warns instead of a man. Shorter deadlines, simply, force the state administration to be as up-to-date as possible. Instead, you give the Minister ten days to decide on a request for a stamp or any other request. Such deadlines are inappropriate. I think it is inappropriate that when MPs speak of the proposal tabled by the minister, or the government of which he is a member, the minister does not sit in the hall. It's an underestimation of the National Assembly, of the People's MPs. I don't think any MP from the SRS has said anything unfounded, and it's about these two draft laws. The minister can agree with us or not, we can have a battle of arguments, but no one can say that any MP from the SRS came out for the Serbian Parliament's pay phone and said something that doesn't stand. We're trying to fix the bad bill you're delivering to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia anyway. I think the minister would have to appreciate the efforts of the SRS MPs. If nothing else, he must not laugh while the MP says something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6966	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask Mr. Minister if he wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6967	I'm going to be very brief, so that I don't interfere with the esteemed MPs using lunch break. I can only express my satisfaction that the remarks I've heard just confirm that this is a good law. Part of the objection is the consequence, I think, of some political attitude, but there is no need for political views at all. As for legal objections, I must admit I am very disappointed. It would be good to know, however, the status of Secretary General of the Government. I can't quite believe someone doesn't know what the status of Secretary General is. I can hardly answer such a kind of question, who's a clerk and who's not, so if the most you can say about these two laws is that you insult the minister, you haven't celebrated yourself. Anyway, we've finished discussing two extremely good laws. I thank all those who participated in the debate, especially those who made a constructive contribution to this debate. I hope that in the debate and the amendments, we will explain a few of these dilemmas that have emerged. I mean these dilemmas of a more serious character. It's certain we can't really look back on every exposure we've heard here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6968	I thank Mr. Milan Markovic. The Republic is owned by Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the minister has misunderstood my presentation and discussion of the SRS MPs. First, no one insulted the minister. He says, except for the insults they've been inflicted. No one paid attention to the minister, but to the text of the bill. Secondly, what you say, Minister, that the law is good, members are good, only the text in the members must be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6970	I thank Mr. Moma Markovic. I have to answer to the Minister, although I will be correct, extremely. It's not true I didn't give you my word. Yeah, that's not true. The interpretations are such that it should not be discussed afterwards, and if I was wrong, I apologize to you. But it's not right, that's what you said in the previous step. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6971	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I may not know what the rules are in Parliament right now, but for the past seven years, as far as I've been here, it's been a custom for the minister to get his word at the end of the discussion in principle. There was always a question in the end, I chaired as you, in the same function - whether the proposing representative wants to address the MPs, therefore, after a principled search, not so much for the minister, but for respect of the National Assembly and MPs. Mr. Vladan Batic, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, Mr. Misa Petronijevic, in yesterday's debate, indeed launched some, I would say, essential issues for the development of state administration in Serbia. As Minister, I simply wanted to contribute to such a debate, out of respect for them and because, in the end, I think the public should hear it. You just closed the session and I think there's been some confusion. I apologize if it's not a practice. For the past seven years, it has been, I say, responsiblely, because I chaired here, just like you do now. Maybe it's changed now. If it's my fault, I apologize, but I think you should have given me your word yesterday. Secondly, it is extremely unusual, it has never been a practice, that after the presentation of the minister and after 14 hours, when the work of the morning ends, it gives a word to the MPs again. So again, I say, that's how it was, and maybe now something's changed since you're in office as chairman. Anyway, I want to say here that I respect, indeed, the way you perform that function. My only objection was that and now this. At the very least, it's not my job to do it, nor does it matter to you how I see you do it. That's what I want to say. I really respect the way you do this, this is simply some remarks that I wanted to say out of respect for you, and also out of respect for the MPs who yesterday, perhaps, thought I didn't want to answer what they said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6972	No problem at all, I'm not mad, it was probably my fault. You are now scolding the entire congregation, and I am not angry again. Probably, I'd never do that, believe me. That's how it is. Circumstance was like that. It still says here in the text, and I only read what it says, if you'd answered the word, you'd probably get it. Let's not talk right now. I'm sorry, this isn't an important topic. It's an important question. I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the state seal of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a law on the seal of state and other bodies. I thank Mr. Secretary and his associates. Thank you to the MPs. Resumption is at 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6973	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. We move to the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Act you have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You've received the Legislative Committee's report. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposal's representative, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill on amendments to the Insurance Act. The law regulates an important area within the financial sector. The financial sector itself is specific to us and it can be divided into three approximately equal parts. One of those three parts belongs to an insurance organization called DDOR. It participates in that market, approximately one-third. In this organization, social property is minority, but far greater than other owners, i.e. shareholders, by exceeding 40% in ownership. The second part of that market belongs to an organization called 'Dunav'. This organization is owned by a large majority of social property, over 90%. Finally, the third part of that market takes up a dozen or slightly more insurance organisations that are practically privately owned. The sector itself is very active and growing. What is happening is that in this sector, this third part, which, I say, is possessed by private organisations, is very active and its participation in the market is slowly increasing. As a consequence, these two companies, of which, as I said, are one in majority social ownership, and the other in minority but significant, are slowly losing their market share. For this reason, it is necessary to take active measures and strategies to manage to position these two organisations as best possible. The strategy, set, comes from a combination of privatization of social property, together with the introduction of a professional investor, which would improve financial performance in the restructuring process and then, through privatisation, we could achieve a much better price. So, as you could conclude, this sector, which is in development and quite active, must have an appropriate legal framework, and the existing law, in a sense, limits the activities that are being taken. This is why the amendment of the Insurance Act is made, in the sense that certain things are regulated in some way and allow for smooth development, and in particular the position of enterprises with social property that participate in the market. I will refer here to three basic solutions in the Law, or three key things that led to the need for these amendments to the Law, not to the details of technical character. These three, I say, the hackers, around which there are other proposed changes in the members of the law, are: firstly, the privatisation of social property in the insurance sector; secondly, the separation of life insurance from non-life insurance in insurance organisations; thirdly, the business of foreign insurance companies in Serbia's territory. When it comes to privatisation, the solutions in the existing law are such that employees are offered 200 euros each year, not in value of actions. This solution to the existing law has led to the dissatisfaction of workers employed in insurance organisations. One group has launched a dispute before the Constitutional Court, in terms of questioning the validity of the solutions contained in the Law. To solve this problem, we had a series of discussions with them and with representatives of insurance organisations. We have come to the conclusion that the best solution would be to organise and implement privatisation in the same way as in the real sector, so that one of the key changes in the law and the proposal is that, instead of 200 euros in cash, workers get, as well as in other privatisations, 200 euros in actions, and then they can sell them later, as it is on the market. It is also projected to separate 15% of social capital for these purposes, and it is also envisaged that an additional 15% be reserved for the privatisation register, so that other workers and citizens can benefit from these privatisations. So that's the first one, let me say, the anker, or the pillar that's included in the proposal for these changes. The second question, as I said, is the separation of life from life insurance. That problem, too, has some prehistory. In the beginning, when insurance organisations were formed, not only in Europe, but in general, it was common for an organization to deal with both life insurance and non-life insurance. It was later concluded that such an approach was not quite correct, because the framework of the same organization resulted in significant spillage of funds, e.g. from life to property. Then there was the conclusion that the separation of "lifeless" from "nonlife" organization should be carried out. Such proposals were made, which caused the need for existing organisations to be divided mainly into two parts, which would be independent, both accountingly and in any other way, where one part would be involved in life insurance, and the other - non-life insurance, or property insurance. However, such a solution, which has been present lately, has not been implemented in every place, because problems have arisen in the realization of such a concept, so another concept has emerged which, roughly, is called the concept of bankruptcy rights, which means that new organisations cannot be established as composites, that they contain one and another type of insurance, but only one, and that for existing organisations, which have already been established and which already have both types of insurance, they continue to work on this concept. Our current Insurance Act contains, in fact, the first approach, which insists that organisations be divided, which would practically mean that our two organisations, those that do business with social property, would have to become, each of them to be divided into two parts that would be independent. This job is pretty complicated and the question is how long should it take to organize it. On the other hand, we have, like I said, these other experiences with so-called. I've acquired rights. Before we decided which option to propose, we also considered the situation in some sixty countries, to see what solutions were made there. The result of these considerations is that, in about half of 30 countries, strict separation has been introduced and no composite organisations exist, and that in 30 other countries this second principle of rights has been adopted. Of course, when we began to look at what countries they were, we came to the conclusion that this pure principle, rigorous, applied, mostly, in highly developed countries, while in developing countries, including countries in the region surrounding us, was actually applied to the concept of acquired rights and gave up insistence on the division of insurance organisations. It's said -- if a new one is established, then it has to be in the area of one or the other, and if it's existing -- it can go on with it. In this regard, we have had a long discussion, both with the National Bank and with the insurance organisations and, aboutly, here is a solution that represents a compromise, which is to remain in the view that it is necessary to separate life insurance and non-life insurance, but to extend, or to give a period of two years in which it would be realized. This would give us an expropriation, first of all, to privatise this social property in the insurance sector itself, and we would also have time to think more, that after two years, however, we have an option to choose this principle of rights acquired. It is, therefore, a solution that is included in the law. Finally, the third question that I wanted to draw attention to is the question of the business of foreign insurance organisations in our territory, and this question is, in fact, in the function of security, not to get the funds from the insurance premium poured abroad, because we need these funds extremely, both from the point of view of macroeconomic stability and from the point of view of improving the deposits of the relevant institutions, where these funds could be held or be placed. Since, due to the changes that occur and the direction we're moving, one moment, however, we're going to have to accept the business of branches of foreign insurance organisations, then we've limited it to be at the moment when we enter the World Trade Organisation, and we added another five years after that period, which is some kind of grace period where it's possible to make adjustments. Of course, this is about getting a license from the NBS. So, here, these are three basic hackers and three reasons why it's important to bring these amendments to the Insurance Act, and the rest of them, technical improvements you could see for yourself. With everything in mind, given the need to respond as quickly as possible and implement the strategy, so that the insurance organisations do not expose themselves to competition that they cannot withstand, I urge you to vote in favour of accepting the amendment of the Insurance Act, as it is given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6975	Thank you. I would like to inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the SRS Parliament Club is the MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, and that he is the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club Rajko Baralic. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, this time I come out with the belief that not only those who listen to us through small screens, but also you here, in the Assembly Hall, will be able to convince me that we are voting against this law, which, in the name of the SRS, is a decadent position. Please listen to the arguments and look behind you, look at all the benefits of liberalisation in the financial sector, or banking, and give a real assessment of the proposed changes. The destruction of the financial sector continues, one of its very sophisticated parts. After banks, there is a market for insurance organisations. What follows next, when it is destroyed by domestic insurance and is left to foreign owners, because this is an interesting market, where life insurance is yet to be developed, followed by full leave for foreigners to decide, manage and earn, capital markets. We have left the banking sector, and this law on the privatisation of the DDOR and the Danube create conditions to leave the insurance companies sector, knowing what financial means, how stable they are, because they are premiums that are very precise and predictable, so, with very significant financial resources, insurance companies appear as institutional investors in capital markets. I should like to tell you in principle, the privatisation that you have imagined as opening a market for foreign branches, as you call it, for the full privatisation of the domestic sector of insurance companies, should mean that in this market we leave a completely open space for those who, not all of you citizens, who have money, but who made a disturbance in the markets and on our stock market two weeks ago, and because of the conditions on the market in Croatia, caused by a good decision by the Croatian government, which is called - the privatisation of Croatia's Telecom, on the principle of public offering. Before I explain the details to you, I will tell you that the Croatian government has decided to privatise Croatia's Telecom, which owns Deutsche Telekom company with 51 per cent ownership, in a way that you do not provide for citizens of the Croatian state in any way in the privatisation of insurance companies, to register up to 38 000 kuna shares for every Croatian citizen. Someone will say - and why all 38 thousand? Because in times of transition it is necessary to give equal chances and fair conditions to all who want to participate in the capital market, i.e. to learn the alphabet of action. The Croatian government also predicted 7.5 per cent for institutional investors, but predicted for Croatian citizens, of 32.5 per cent - 25 per cent. Why don't you look up to the nearest neighborhood, but tell the citizens that they need to go out on the market, trade in stocks, and, in fact, you don't want to give the professors a chance, many doctors who are no longer able to do their job. So I'm not talking about the poorest, barely surviving. I'm talking about a layer of population that could appear as a buyer of actions like these companies and who will never be able to open its own business, small and medium-sized enterprises, such as bakers, milkers, or to raise animals, as can those living in the country, that layer, which is your significant voting body, and for me, as a Serbian radical, is significant because every citizen of Serbia is significant and should have the opportunity to invest money in his country with priority law, real investment. You learned lessons from a time when surpluses of money were invested in cottages, building houses at sea, etc. This property is unproductive, it's running empty today, and because of the wrong policy and what led to the separation of the two states, we have a lot of problems. You have a lot of pressure on what's called "realstate", the real estate market, today when that property is sold and reinvested in non-productive investment. The privatisation of DDORA and "Dunava" must show this country responsible because it gives its citizens the opportunity to invest not in apartments for rent, not in dead capital, but in actions, in companies that are today sold for tens of millions of euros, and you know as well as I, as someone who deals with this problem, considering world experience, that in a very short time the premiums in insurance companies will be worth 480m euros a year. So much for the insurance market, 480m euros, the potential size of the insurance market in Serbia. You'll get the source from where the data came from. Since this is the law on changes and additions to the Insurance Act, with the subheading - the privatisation of the DDOR and the Danube, and in the way we have already seen in banks and the way you want, to be managed by foreign owners by the capital and stock markets, I warn you that the last chance to give to the citizens of Serbia is, in principle, to participate in the preparation of insurance companies for competition on the market, which you will, in the neighbourhood of the European Union, outside of it, on the European market, etc. But what's a general remark, what you're being led by, and really annoying when I remind you of it, is a commission for which to do so. Article 21 The law, which you are changing here, in addition to what I will explain in detail, the separation of life from non-life insurance, certain techniques, the percentage of privatisation, is one constitution that you never give away from, a constitution that the Venice Commission does not give you, a constitution in an economy called the "Primary Fund Grant Agreement", I will repeat a hundred times after this speaker, published in "International Contracts" number 8, where it is said - a reward for success in privatisation, or commission will be paid out of the purchase price achieved in privatisation and no one will have any data about it, because that fee is paid before payment to the Privatisation Agency, how you do it in the real sector. Please stop my time. Article 226 - parliamentary question. Someone thinks I'm a mirage here. For RTS and Tianic, I know that. Dear Ministers, I am here and asking - which companies, which consulting houses, which have since 2001, since this international contract came into force, paid the commission in return for the success of the privatisation process, and after deduction of all costs for evaluation, advertising, financial advisers, privatisation advisers etc.? Which companies and by what criteria did they get the job? The only change compared to the Bubal rule, where he legalized the five percent commission, is that this proposal has given you the right to determine that height. There's a little detail, it doesn't say before the payment, but -- after the payment of the funds to the Privatisation Agency, you'll determine what a commission it will be. Dear citizens, there is a constitution called 'provision as a way of ruling', which will not be deviated by any authority in charge of exercising its duties in this country. It is a constitution that was prescribed in 2001, when a warrant was received to do privatisation in the real and financial sectors. Mr. Minister has explained to us that in 60 countries this is separated from life insurance and said one sentence which, I must confess, I cannot translate into reality. He said two of our biggest insurance houses are losing market influence. These two insurance houses hold 65 percent of the insurance market. Then what's their interest in losing market influence? What do you explain to us that modern world security, which, by the way, I tell you dear colleagues, is called, as a matter of fact, 2P, is an extremely profitable and highly professional job? That's the general definition of insurance. High-profit and highly professional work. Does Serbia, indeed, not have enough organised insurance companies, according to the criteria imposed by transition, mean, by some of our internal criteria, or by the criteria imposed by world globalisation? You can say whatever you want, but by neglecting an extremely unregulated period, which was sort of rescheduled a few years ago, we apply to a country that, in its long tradition, had a legally regulated insurance market back in the 19th century. What makes us different today from the EU, as a legal supranational system, but in which we are not yet, is to regulate these relations through a directive. This area was organised in the European Union by three directives, which, in the period from 1973 to 1992, amounted to something called the 'European Passport' or 'The Unique Insurance Society'. This means that any EU country is setting up its insurance company, which, in other Union countries, can, without opening branches and physical presence, do insurance jobs. There are no restrictions in choosing these insurance houses, in the way we make the profits, but also something we're far from. What by definition is called free flow of people, goods and capital, we are challenged, especially free flow of people. That's what all visa citizens in front of the embassy know about, whatever business they're traveling to. How much capital flow is prevented, you are also witnesses; it is given only there, and we will see it in the international agreements that we will talk about in the coming days, when a good calculation of the rate of return is made and to what extent Serbia, as a state that is not yet even in candidate country, is ready to abolish what is defined in the nearest neighbourhood, not as protecting domestic insurance companies as strategic activities, but to what extent I need, even, and to abolish what has been in the law so far, and it writes - interrelationship in mutual relations. So, dear citizens, the government of Serbia and the finance minister suggest that because of joining the World Trade Organisation, because of future accession to the EU, we are already exposed today not to competition, but to selling our insurance societies, erasing a point of reciprocity, which for each man himself, if not there is, means, in fact, lack of self-respect. It may happen to any man that he has no self-respect and that others will allow him to do what he will not do to them, but not us as a state, and you who exercise power on behalf of all citizens, who know what self-respect is, what partnership is, what is reciprocity, what is the future of our children and what is, Mr. Minister, the development of life insurance, as an extremely attractive activity at this point for Serbia and those who want to enter this market. Dear citizens, this is what it looks like to you in numbers - 89% of 100% of the insurance market's non-life insurance; that's what we know, property insurance, vehicles, etc. in Serbia. In developed countries, 44% of the total insurance market is, in fact, life insurance; in countries that have made progress, this percentage is that we do not compare with the most developed, 30%. We have that percentage below five. So the growth of insurance in lifeless operations will grow, but stable. But here is extremely important what is the growth of life insurance, in a situation where we need to reform pension funds and reform the rest of the financial system called the capital market, so important that it was seen by the Slovenian government, which, by the way, is owned by the Slovenian state, I repeat, owned by the Slovenian state, rather than by private shareholders, advised that the European Union, as a market for a European single passport and a single licence, is not a place where it should expand 'Triglav', but rather Serbia, and through Montenegro, where it is already, in the company 'Lovten', a significant ownership participation, in this company which also has a monopoly, I say, a monopoly, but takes up most of the market, although it is not the only. Mr. Minister, I believe you've been following, as an interested minister, the situation, because jurisdiction over insurance companies has been transferred from the Minister of Economy and the Privatisation Agency to the Minister of Finance and the Deposit Insurance Agency. It's not an accident. There is no similarity in the structure, neither in importance, nor in the context of the privatisation of the real and financial sector, so do not call on it. So, you can't privatize in the real sector to be the same as in the financial sector. The specificity that, as a state, we have, is that the regulatory body that is competent to monitor the work of insurance companies, to monitor them, to license them, to approve them, unlike almost all other countries, I say almost, because I haven't found where the country is yet -- the National Bank. There is a certain regulatory body everywhere that deals with control, supervision and licensing, only in our country is it the National Bank of Serbia and, behold, it takes a long time, under the firm hand of a political party, called G 17, which, in a longer time period, approves everything that is licensed, especially if there is a discretionary right to do so, and here, in Article 44 of the basic law, this discretionary right is stated as an assessment of the justification for the establishment of an insurance society, in fact, another of the conditions for the abuse of a state that is obliged to regulate, control and maintain this important area as strategic. I want to tell you that the experiences of countries in the environment, e.g. one Croatian, speak the following. Although their share of non-life insurance is high, their market has insurance for Croats, which controls 35% of the market. Do you know how many foreign insurance companies are present in the nearest Croatian environment, which has a rather liberal insurance law? Alliance, 8.5%, so many foreign insurance companies. In Slovenia, the country which has the largest income in the region, where life insurance accounts for these significant 30%, has a very significant annual growth, but as in other areas, ''a significant inflow of foreign capital was not allowed in Slovenia''. The biggest insurance house in Triglav is still state-owned and controlling 40% of the insurance. Foreign companies present in Slovenia are "Greive" and "Viner" and have less than 2% of their participation. Someone out there is worried about time, I have time, but you're wasting our time by making the wrong decisions. What's not good for the state of Serbia right now is that one such important topic as privatising insurance companies is trying, in the absence of time, to present a story that is not current today. We will liberalize some of the conditions for the World Trade Organisation in five years. We're not going to leave people behind so quickly, we're not going to retire, we're not going to leave the insurance houses voluntarily, but our experience in the banking sector is too bitter for the people to swallow another bitter pill. The moment 8,500 workers were fired, when they were promised to find a job in banks like the National Savings Bank, people believed it was really possible. In later competitions, these people, with language skills, with experience, with the knowledge of all computer techniques, received an answer that they were over 27 years old and too old for new world companies. When you give Governor Jelasic a chance today to defend himself, he says he did not destroy the banking system by his own will, but was ordered by the state. When he says - ask the citizens, he forgets that there are people in every family, closer or further, someone who lost his job because of that privatisation. Whom does he ask if his credits today are three times more expensive than the countries in the environment? Do you want to experience that fate with the insurance companies as well? You will introduce competition, bring us a dozen new services, which will certainly not be cheaper, which will employ some new young people up to the age of 27. Young people also need to work, but they cannot be left in full strength and with extremely valuable experience on the street just so that someone can charge a commission. I will finally quote the one I often mention, Mr. Djelic: "Well, are you so incompetent and corrupt that you sell insurance companies at the moment she has yet to develop with the development of life insurance?"
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6977	I would like to thank MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. She, by the way, used time after 20 minutes, and that time belonged to the SRS Parliamentary Group. In accordance with Article 93 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, are there any other parliamentary groups to report the list? (No) I find she only signed up for the SRS. I give my word to Parliamentarian Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I love it when the minister comes out for this pay phone and tries to convince us, the MPs, of something that is contrary to the paper he has proposed to us and for which the National Assembly should give consent. When the law is looked at and compared with the minister's statement, it turns out that the law is passed to protect the market of two large insurance companies, with the majority social capital, which are now in control, as the minister said, 60% of the market, so that at a higher cost, the state can make as much money as possible by selling its market to insurance. Well, that's what the minister told us and stayed alive. It is already in article 1 of the Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act that the minister is not telling the truth. I'll use mild words, don't tell the truth. Here's what changes and additions to the law are like. In Article 3 of the basic law, the current text was like this: 'The insurance activity is carried out by an insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity'. In order to get a permit, it has to lay down certain guarantees, deposit to the National Bank, to take action, to ensure the roles that citizens give insurance. What's the new member now? In addition to what I have read, "as well as a branch of a foreign insurance company that has been authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity". So, like a branch. There is no longer a legal person in the territory of the Republic who has to register for this activity and as such works, we will already have foreign security branches here, and will probably not be obliged to make deposits, because the decision on the deposit is made on the basis of sublegal acts. Serbia's assembly has no idea, MPs, but may the minister then answer the question of how it will reduce it, i.e. to protect domestic insurance companies from losing the market? Not at all. Foreign insurance companies, with smaller financial resources, will be able to work here in an even easier way and come from a monopoly position. It is already in Article 2 that the minister is not telling the truth again and that he does not want to protect domestic insurance companies that are going to privatise. This is exclusively about the market and the orders of foreign insurance companies that this government is working on. So it's about resecuring. If one insurance company has a specific capital, provides a deposit and guarantees that it will pay the stakes on the basis of insurance, and closes several contracts and lacks funds, the insurance company is obliged to resecuritise that surplus with another insurance company that has free resources. The condition was that it would be, firstly, a domestic reinsurance company, well, if there's no homework, then it could go to a foreign one. What two domestic reassurance societies have such resources? Just the DDOR and the Danube. Now, so we have branches of foreign insurance companies, which will not be obliged to execute deposits, and the reinsurance will not work with our insurance companies, but can right away with their parent insurance companies, without any capital involvement. That's what it looks like when DS and DOS defend their domestic market, domestic economic and financial entities. Article 44 of the basic law shows what it looks like when it comes to an application for an authorisation to carry out insurance operations. In order to prevent the possible entry of new insurance companies with domestic founders, shareholders, etc., a new position in the law is added. In Article 44, a new position is added, which reads: "The founder to whom an application for an authorisation to carry out insurance operations has been rejected or rejected cannot again submit the same request within one year of the date of rejection or refusal of that request". Watch out, the branch of a foreign insurance company has no obligation. This is just about companies that need to register for the performance of the insurance business. See what they say in that same article, paragraph 7 - The National Bank of Serbia will refuse to issue an insurance authorisation if there is no justification for the establishment of an insurance company. By what criteria, Mr. Minister? By what criteria will the National Bank assess whether there is justification or not? Is it according to the criteria of foreign insurance companies, according to whose criteria? Let's say you're doing this to protect domestic insurance companies with majority social capital, but when you sell them, this provision in the law will remain and then who are you protecting? New owners. First you will destroy the market for domestic social capital insurance companies, you will sell them cheaper than they are now, but the safeguards in this law will remain. You will eliminate competition and remain exclusively foreign insurance companies. How inconsistencies you are in writing the law, as far as you are concerned, to meet the requirements of those who order you to write such laws, are already seen in Article 103. Take it, Mr. Minister, and look at Article 103 of the basic law, and then the amendment and the addition you asked for. ''Requirements for granting an authorisation to provide other insurance services shall be submitted by the founders of the Agency or, on their behalf, by a person they authorise. In addition to the requirement laid down in Article 1, a founding act shall be submitted, a proposal for a statute, etc.'' You requested that the draft statute be deleted in Article 103. In Article 93, which regulates the same matter and the same area, the draft statute and founding act remains in the basic law. Whoever issues the permits will be able to manipulate, you have a statute, or you don't. When a request is submitted, you do not need the statute, we return it to you, and when we refuse the request, we say - you have not delivered the statute, you cannot ask for a year to register again for the performance of insurance operations. Furthermore, what is surprising is the self-will that wants to be given to one of the interested groups, one of the state institutions they have seized by force, taken and usurped, and this is about the National Bank of Serbia. In Article 103, the new member of 180a, which was proposed in the amendment and supplement of this law, is said: "The National Bank of Serbia and employees of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the person who, under the orders of the National Bank of Serbia, performs the duty established by this law, are not responsible for the damage caused by the exercise of that duty unless it is proved that the damage has been caused by deliberate or extreme negligence." Are you giving it to the governor and his officers immunity for abuse, Mr. Minister? Note further: ''The person of the position of the 1st member cannot be held responsible for the damages of that position even after the employment relationship in the National Bank of Serbia has ceased, that is, the termination of the duties. The National Bank of Serbia will compensate for the costs of representing employees at the National Bank of Serbia in judicial and administrative proceedings in connection with the duties that these employees have performed or carried out under this law. The National Bank of Serbia will compensate for the costs of the 3rd member's position and those whose working relationship at the National Bank of Serbia has ceased. '"That's what a new member of 180 looks like. Proposal to amend and supplement the law. If we go back a little bit, Mr. Minister, several domestic insurance companies have been shut down in the period 2004-2005. As a member of the Committee, I asked other colleagues from the SRS to submit reports to the members of the Finance Committee on why individual insurance companies are being shut down. For more than three months, we persuaded the Minister and the Governor of the National Bank to get those reports, and in those reports, except in one or two insurance companies, nothing was found which could be the reason for the closing of 12 insurance companies. The Committee session under discussion was declared top secret and non-member MPs were expelled from the session. What is Dinkic and Jelasic afraid of? Probably abuses. They are afraid and they know -- the abuses they are making are outdated in a relative period, for 15, absolutely for 30 years, and the practice in the legislation is to always apply provisions that are more favourable to a person who has committed a crime. You give these members immunity and amnesty to criminals. Mr. Minister, adopt the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party concerning these provisions. It's the only way you can convince me that you're not a criminal, along with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6979	I thank my colleague, Veroljub Arsic. The word has Nebojsa Stefanovic, and let the MP Sasa Valjarevic be prepared. Excuse me, Nebojsa Stefanovic is not here. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have before us an amendment to the Insurance Act, with a proposal to prepare insurance companies for a new privatisation. This all reminds us of the privatisation of the banking system, where we are witnessing that, after the privatisation of the banking system in Serbia, we no longer have domestic banking, but only foreign banks that dictate interest on the market, which is abnormally large, so we became a debt company. I'll look back on Articles 20 and 21 of the bill when we talk about privatisation. In Article 20 of the proposed amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, a proposal was made to make it 70% of the social capital to be privatised. Speaking in the opening statement, authorised representative Jorvanka Tabakovic presented comparative figures and percentages with which domestic insurance is involved in the surrounding countries, as well as with which percentages are involved by foreign insurance. It shows, however, that the countries in the environment did not work as the past government, when it privatised banks, nor is it now, which prepares the privatisation of insurance companies, in fact, creates a passivity to buy for very little money by providing systems and insurance companies in Serbia. The potential size of the insurance market in Serbia is estimated to be around 480m euros. We in Serbia have two other large domestic companies, which are Danube Insurance's ADO and DDOR Novi Sad, which cover and control around 65% of insurance. All the largest systems in both life insurance and life insurance are covered by these two state, or social houses, which are doing great because they had a good business policy, so they survived all possible transactions in society, from sanctions, bombings and all of these changes from 2000 to 2007. But what's going on? The powerful foreign insurance company that is on the market in Serbia, which already exists in 17, are trying to take over the entire market, i.e. these two powerful companies and these two powerful state-owned insurance companies. Therefore, the SRS has submitted an amendment to reduce the percentage, not to make it 70% of the privatisation of social capital, but to be 49% and to remain the majority owner of the state with 51%. We are thinking about protecting these two domestic insurance companies, important for Serbia and, in general, for all workers in them, because, as is said, when the new owner comes, the first thing he does, it is to reorganise, whether banks, whether insurance companies, and that all people who do not respond to it in that system, simply fire. We are witnessing that, after the privatisation that has been done so far, over a million people have lost their jobs. Today you can meet them and see how they work, let's say, instead of the most complex jobs they've been trained for and for which the state has been singled out for years, and their parents, in which they've certainly become leading experts, on flea markets, selling smuggled goods, or doing the lowest jobs in some companies that wanted to take them in. During that time, in all these companies, you can see your party friends hiring, in banks that don't have a day's work experience, but it's important that someone from that political party finished their job to get some bank into some of the cities. This is likely to be the case with insurance and, normally, space is created for them, regardless of the professional equipment, the work experience and everything that is prescribed and what they are looking for in competitions that are publicly available in the daily papers or magazines, in which they are looking for workers for new jobs. To protect domestic insurance companies, we suggested that the state remain a majority owner instead of privatizing 70%. We also pointed out the need to delete Article 21 completely, since you have proposed to legalise it here, i.e. in the process or privatisation process of insurance companies, compensation is paid to completed contracts on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, i.e. A commission. We are guilty of how we privatized the Sartid, for which the money was privatized, where a large system went for a very small amount, and now a huge commission is mentioned that certain ministers and certain members of the government who participated in this privatisation have been given, and every day some newspaper articles appear. So, now you just want to legalize these flows, in the sense that it's all within the framework of the law, which we think is inadmissible, because this is definitely going to happen - domestic insurance companies will be sold and lost control of 60% of the market in Serbia, because all-security houses that are now interested in privatisation, start from these powerful and large, such as "Unika", "Viner Broker" and "Gral", every day in one of the cities open their own representations, where you can meet their agents going from house to house, or from company to company and offer insurance. It is good that our citizens are skeptical of these insurance companies that are opening up in Serbia and continue to trust these locals, although, as far as life insurance is concerned, it is only now in expansion. In fact, because of the economic situation in our society, citizens do not have the means to make out of their own personal incomes, though, only those who work, because we have many unemployed, separate for additional life insurance or for voluntary retirement insurance, although the picture is slightly improved. That is why changes and additions to the basic law are going to prepare the ground for foreign insurance companies to take over the domestic market and simply drown without the disappearance of two powerful insurance companies, such as 'DDOR' and 'Dunav Insurance' in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6981	The People's MP Milorad Buha has the word, and let the MP Radoslav Jevremovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with certain data that are related to the history of insurance. Namely, the first beginnings of insurance are found in ancient Rome, Greece, and the first written insurance contract is found in the 1347 archives in Genoa. It is interesting to note that the first elements of insurance are found in the Serbian legal system, in the 1349 Code of Emperor Dusan, only two years after the first discovery, i.e. the first traces of recorded legal elements, i.e. the insurance contract. The real and important elements of insurance in the legal, economic and financial sense are found in the 19th century. The development of insurance starts in the 19th century, when Serbian insurance starts to develop. I look back on history just to point out that Serbia has not lagged behind on insurance for other European countries, and that is the situation in the 20th century. The tragedy took place the moment the great forces decided to break up the former SFRY, impose sanctions, bomb Yugoslavia. At that moment, the insurance system in Serbia, i.e. in the former Yugoslavia, is beginning to lag behind, but not in terms of expertise and experience in the area of insurance, but in financial elements that go with insurance. So Serbia has a developed insurance system. She was able to preserve it, develop it, but in a financial sense, we couldn't track European flows, because of the famous sanctions and everything that happened to us in the 1990s, and the beginning of this century. This is what I am saying from the aspect of creating preconditions for Serbia to move towards an active development of insurance. She certainly, in human and technical terms, can do it. He's got strength, he's got waist. Financially, he can't track, and I'm going to show that through the following elements. The total premium of insurance per capita in Serbia is just over 30 euros. There are some 125 euros in medium-developed countries, and in highly developed countries there are about 300 euros. We are ten times behind on providing adequate resources for the insurance system. We have data from 2004 in Serbia -- the total insurance premium was 38 euros. Next year, 2005, it is 54 euros, and in 2006 -- about 62 euros. This year we expect about 70 euros and with this increase, the increase is significant compared to 2004, almost 100% is an increase in the total mass of insurance, we are joining world flows. We are involved in financial terms, but we are not involved in the reorganisation of the entire system. The moment the world, the great powers, and especially powerful insurance companies, realized that we were ready to transform and privatise, they had given orders to the current authorities since 2000, so to this day, they've ordered accelerated privatisation, closing small, entering large systems and creating a basis for breaking up the entire insurance system, and I'm going to show in what way. Instead of having competent ministries and governments in general analyse problems in the area of insurance, it takes measures to resuscitate the entire insurance system, it moves into what has been given by the West, which is an accelerated privatisation. Since 2003, when we, like, went into the system, or into the reform rounding of the insurance system, we have closed more than 100 agencies and insurance companies, and today we have very few insurance companies on the market. It may well be in some situation, especially in the conditions of a poorly developed economy, when it's done by a small house, a small agency that hasn't disappeared from our market. What's important is that we now have two houses that are not privatized, which cover two-thirds of the total insurance system, about 67%; 32% - 'DDOR', and the strongest of our houses, which is 'Dunav Insurance' - 33%. The important thing is that the current government is going to sell the insurance company for why. Why is that, we'll see from the following data. The total value of the insurance market is worth, according to counterpart Tabakovic, around 480m euros. The DDOR and the Danube Insurance are worth between 150m euros and 160m euros. In the failed tender for the sale of DDOR, a sum of 200m euros was discussed. So, about a year from now, the value of the insurance premium, the one that buys the DDOR, and you know who buys it, will provide and return what they're going to invest, or what they're going to give to the state on the continual sale of capital. It's a crime. It's open crime. Who's doing this crime? Current power. If we know who's holding these houses, then we'll be even clearer. "Dunav Insurance" holds the DSS, and "DDOR" holds the G17 and, with strong forces, DS. In the insurance system of these two houses, total politicization was carried out, political personnel went inside and diluted everything from the profession in these companies, took the lead positions, and expected privatisation, to be settled under some new circumstances. It doesn't matter how much that state gets, but even the current government doesn't care anymore, it's important to take a commission, sell what needs to be sold, and that's a serious bite. If we sell two-thirds, there's a total value of about 350m euros and add 5% to that, then we know how much those who participate in privatisation will put in their pockets. I said I knew who would take these two insurance companies, but they don't hide it, at EU level they agreed; the DDOR will take Triglav, and the Danube Insurance will take the most important Austrian insurance house. When representatives of Triglav came to the talks in Novi Sad, they announced it to the leadership -- don't worry, we'll take care of the workers, etc. What we could see in the area of banking is that, after selling to foreign banks, there comes a period when we invest a certain part of the capital, and then we fire the workers and go to certain jobs that are profitable. What are profitable jobs? Profitable are the ones that bring us the biggest interest, and the biggest interest is the quick loans, "you come in, you come out and you're done." That's exactly how it's gonna be here. What is waiting for us, is that, after privatisation, today we stand out for this year about 70, very quickly it will grow to an average of medium-developed countries, from 120 to 150, and after that - 300 euros. Brothers of Serbs, set aside 300 euros per capita and then you will be insured. What's going to be the next concept - there won't be any collateral. Why would the West secure Serbian property? Serbian property, economy, industry should fail and we won't secure it, we'll secure the faces. Life insurance is a concept that is a trend in the world and it will be present here as well. What will be the fate of our businesses, our assets? There's no insurance. They don't care. You who make decisions must think carefully, after the first half comes the second half, when all this will be questioned. I'm surprised by the stillness of the insurance workers. About, we'll get some compensation, so, well, we'll be better off than the ones who were free of charge. We, as a society, have reconciled. It's miles of Serbian people. I'm not gonna go through the way that one went, the one didn't get anything, I'm at least gonna get something. That's tragic. We need to change those miles. The SRS is changing that mile through a serious story about all this. I want us to get serious, and you don't care. There'll be a second half, when you'll be interested, and then there'll be a lot of problems for those who've destroyed everything, who've committed crime and robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6983	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Jevremovic, and let the MP Slavisa Topalovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments to the Insurance Act or, better say, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the privatisation of 'DDOR' and 'Dunav Insurance', because these amendments and additions to the Law are, in fact, preparations for the privatisation of these two insurance companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Insurance Act was passed at the end of May 2004, and these changes come on the agenda after more than three years, you say, for the purpose of raising the quality of the performance of insurance. And all of this would be fine if there was nothing else behind this, or first, commission. Yeah, well, we're on our way, though. In Article 1 The draft law, i.e. in Article 3 of the basic law, reads paragraph 1: "The activity of the insurance company is carried out by the insurance company authorised by the competent authority for the performance of that activity", and you add: "as well as the branch of a foreign insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity. "The question is, what is obtained by this addition of the law? I can't say you don't get anything, because if it was nothing, we'd be zero, and this is how we get it, but only the negative consequences that will be seen over a certain period of time. The same situation was a few years ago, when foreign banks entered our market, but before that, our banks had to be destroyed, and this was done in a well-known way. These banks gave us a large number of loans, but under incredible conditions, which are not valid anywhere in Europe, but only in Serbia, and these conditions are viewed through the largest interest rates in Europe. In Article 2. The draft law, i.e. Article 15 of the basic law, is proposed to delete, in paragraph 4, the words "in the resecuritisation society" and Article 5 is deleted. Paragraph 4 reads: "The insurance company is obliged to take part of the risk above the self-preservation of reosiguration", so you delete the "resecuring company" and point 5 says, "The resecure company is obliged to cover part of the risk that cannot be covered by its means or by resecuritisation in the country of resecuritisation abroad". The question is, what do you get by changing the law? Once again, we get negative consequences, because the insurance company's current law was directed to resecure the country, and only then abroad. We hereby abolish some kind of protection and allow foreign resecuritisation companies to do whatever they want in the competition. Knowing the situation in our society, we'll be losers. This member of the law is, of course, premature, because Serbia is not yet a member of the WTO and those restrictions that the WTO provides should be set when Serbia becomes a member. In Article 3. The draft law, i.e. Article 26 of the basic law, reads 2nd, "The Foreign Legal and Physical Persons Can", and deletes "under the terms of mutuality", "based a stock company for insurance or invest funds in an insurance company". By eradicating the conditions of reciprocity, none of our insurance companies will set up an insurance company abroad, as it is generally known that some countries from a closer environment, only when they are suspected of having capital from Serbia, are trying in a variety of ways, and they succeed, to carry out discrimination and not allow access to their market. It is also known that the principle of reciprocity applies to all serious states. In Article 15. The bill adds a new member of 180a, whose position is 1st, reads: "The National Bank of Serbia and the employees of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as the person acting under the orders of the National Bank of Serbia, shall not be held accountable for the damage caused by the exercise of that duty unless it is proved that the damage has been caused by deliberate or extreme negligence. "This attitude 1, as well as a full member, are unnecessary, because everyone should be responsible for their work and that the degree of responsibility is known. The question is also asked -- how will it be proved whether the damage was done on purpose and what it means -- with extreme negligence. Does this mean that this member will serve as a selective terrorist for workers, and some will find extreme negligence and others not? In the case of a Member State of the Proposal for a law, i.e. in Art. 234 and 235 of the basic law, you extend the deadline for changing status and business until 31.12.2009 and this is an extremely long deadline. As we know, the Law was passed in May 2004 and there was plenty of time to make moves in the field. The SRS MPs will request the deadline to be shortened by 30 June 2008. In Article 20. The bill changes the total capital by 70% of the social capital. So 70% of social capital is too much to sell and it is certain that this amount should not exceed 49%, so that the state can retain influence in such an important area, or in all strategic activities. He's a particularly interesting member of the 21st century. The bill, i.e. Article 243v, where the word - commission appears. What's certain is that someone will take a commission when selling these insurance companies, if they haven't already taken it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6985	The People's MP Slavisa Topalovic has the word, and let the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. If you are responsible for power, the essence of this law should be in the following: the regulation of market conditions in this area and the strengthening of the economic position of insurance companies, so that they can respond best to the demands of the economy and citizens. But you are not the responsible authority, you are not the authority that cares about the citizens and the economy of this country. You're just executors of other people's mentors and bad copyists. The essence of the changes you've proposed is only one thing, and that's the introduction of monopoly in this area and the removal of competition, Mr. Minister. You know very well how to do this, because you have already worked in many branches of the Serbian economy. For that, of course, you've always taken great commissions. Mr. Minister, if you don't believe me, I can see that you don't particularly care, ask Mr. Vlahovic what he has to say and if he knows anything about it. Mr. Minister, you were Mr. Vlahovic's associate, and that's the closest associate in the previous period, which I was already talking about, what do you know about it, commissions? How are you going to monopolize this area? Very easily, Mr. Minister, you will allow foreign security to enter our market very easily. Of course, it costs, Mr. Minister. You will provide easier sales of domestic insurance companies, probably Slovenians and Croats, with a good commission. You'll destroy small and independent insurance companies, so they don't disturb your insurance companies. You're going to trick employees in these insurance companies by giving them 15 percent of the shares instead of money and, of course, then firing them all. It is clear that these legal solutions will not allow any equal position of domestic and foreign insurance. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to answer my next question. We know that the two largest Serbian insurance companies (Dunav and DDOR) hold more than 60% of our market. Is that correct, Mr. Minister? It's common knowledge that's the case. Is it true, Mr. Minister, that the Slovenian insurance of Triglav is used by brokering manipulations to obtain a majority package of actions of the newly-sadic DDOR, without privatisation? Remember, Minister, without privatization, they're trying to do it. All you have to do is answer this question publicly and honestly. If you do this publicly and honestly, then you will see that this bill will deny yourself and your government, Mr. Minister. Your DS party discipline is such that you have to claim something, even though you know it's not, that you're wrong, that it's a bad law and that it's going to affect the privatisation of insurance houses. We from the SRS will not vote in favour of this proposal to amend the Insurance Act, because we do not want the failure of the Serbian economy and in the area of insurance. So accept the amendments of the SRS, so that this law, as far as possible, can be obtained legally and in practice with applicable standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6987	Mr Rajko Baralic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6988	Mr. Djudjevic, Mr. Cvetkovic, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues, the issue of privatisation in Serbia is a matter of concept. There are parties that have declared themselves to be one, second or third concept of privatisation. I want to say that the SPS, in continuity, has a consistent view in this House. So, we thought that the privatisation law was damaged by the economy and citizens of Serbia, and the argument that amendments and additions to the Insurance Act provide analogy with the Privatisation Act, when it comes to privatising insurance companies, is simply a commentation on the political stance that was once expressed in the form of voting for the existing privatisation law. So what I'm saying is, when a legal project is being voted on, then there's a real political consequence, which, mostly, cannot be changed. The privatisation law in Serbia has ensured that, practically, under conditions that we in the SPS think are not good, the sale of what the generations have created. Insurance companies are only at the top of that pyramid. I have to say that it is "fat coke," I apologize for the colloquial language, because the financial potential on the financial market is about half a billion euros in insurance companies and because 70 percent of the sale of social capital from these systems provides in the budget of the Republic of Serbia several hundred million euros, which, as you know, will go to spending, so directly into the budget. In this way, this government has a continuity with the insane consumption of a national substance in the consumption of the Republic of Serbia, which would otherwise not have done any responsible host, owner of the property, owner of the house, owner of the craft shop. I've pointed out examples like this before. I don't know of any good host who, for example, would sell his field or craft shop and buy his granddaughter a pair of shoes. A trade shop can be sold to buy another, or to buy, as mine likes to say, a piece of land, or to start a new job, but there is no way to spend money from the sale of assets on gifts, to increase the personal standard, to anything that doesn't contribute to ensuring the further perspective of that family or that state, since I am now extracting analogy between one host in Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, on behalf of all of us, needs to host our economy and our economy. Because it has been entrusted to the Government that measures of economic policy contribute to the household bossing of everything and everything in Serbia, including funds from the privatisation of insurance companies. I have to say that, unfortunately, it's too late now, because things have gone a long way; banks have magically changed the owner or, worse still, have been shut down in Serbia. After that, an ideal position was created for unfair competition, so-called unfair competition. foreign banks, which still operate in Serbia today as domestic banks with a foreign name, which guarantee nothing that they are foreign banks in Serbia. If you do not believe, try to open an account in any bank in Serbia that has a foreign name and try to make a payment from that foreign exchange account at the same bank, with the same name. They'll tell you you're not the bank's client. So it's important that we call all things a real name and know what this is about. We do not dispute anyone's right to see all these things differently, but I also ask that no one dispute our right to what we think is wrong and to make such an argument here. There are several segments in the amendments to the Privatisation Act. One refers to a simple revision of these issues relating to Serbia's membership in the WTO; here it is said about the deadlines until when certain provisions will apply. I can understand that, but it could've been done when it happened. Then, what I am also interested in here are these members relating to the amendment of existing insurance laws, where employees in insurance companies, above all, in the Danube, are treated differently than they were treated by the basic law. I have to say that I don't mind that workers go better in every privatisation, that's the general attitude of the SPS, but this here is, in a sense, political "apaurin", or "bensedin", whatever, for the employees of this system, because it will be easier to accept privatisation, which is going to happen, obviously, in the next period, not to say when it will be, because it was important for them to come out of this story more satisfied than it would have been that the provisions of the basic law on privatisation were in force. Employees in insurance companies, by the way, had a better position than employees in steel, trade, medical institutions, etc. I'm asking the question here, is it possible that it was correct for employees in the state administration, in the field of medicine, in education, so, to all those who have so far failed to exercise the right to any action, to resolve the status of these workers, as well as all other employees in the Serbian Parliament, in the government, wherever? I want to say that there are a huge number of people waiting for the privatisation to end and then, in a certain way, to solve this question, to get everybody action, to talk about those people who don't have it. Here, obviously, it was important not to wave in the insurance society system itself, and employees of people will draw a better personal position from these changes and additions. I don't mind it, I'm also obliged to say that some others didn't have that chance and that privatisation in Serbia was according to the largest number of people completely machinian, that one number of people not only had not received any action, but their companies went bankrupt, and then whoever bought those companies had no obligations arising from the social programme, nor did it come to them. So, it's completely diverse to set this up, but, here, if this is an opportunity for employees of insurance companies, who, by the way, had extraordinary salaries, excellent personal and social standards, who, under very favourable conditions, all these years, went to their families on their own vacations, on 15-day and twenty-day vacations and winters, to finish this story, to take advantage of this advantage that comes from this law, okay, and I want to say that, unfortunately, this is the last good thing that's going to happen to them. So everything after this is privatisation, it's a rigid concept, when it comes to the number of employees. Most of them won't wait a year on the payroll with the new boss, and they need to know today. So, if they're mistaken that this is going to be resolved so that they're going to get what's being offered from this privatisation and that, with a big pay, they're going to be the tenants in this insurance company, then there's nothing from that story. It will be important to reduce the number of employees in this sector as well as in all other areas. Not all countries' experiences, or even some that have entered the European Union, are like this. I want to say that in Slovenia these things did not happen that way and that, practically, Slovenia did not privatise almost anything more than 40 percent of what was important, where, certain companies have absolutely nothing to do with the state, but simply, companies dealing with certain quite ordinary things, such as the production of sports equipment or other. So, we have defined ourselves as a concept of privatisation that, in the fastest possible way, the largest number of Serbian citizens, practically, has left without any perspective and hope that it is possible from their collectives, from their work, to feed their families. But here, time will show what it really wants here. He told a colleague just now that Serbs are pushing for certain types of insurance. That's true. So, face insurance is what brings the biggest profit to those who deal with it. It says here that this treatment of clients in the multilevel system will no longer be possible, as explained in the explanation. It could also be written in Serbian. That's good, but I have to tell you, unfortunately, it's too late for that. A large number of insurance companies in Serbia already operate in this way, and since you, Mr Cvetkovic, are the finance minister, I would like to say that big traffic in Serbia in the area of trade is done in this system, that the state of Serbia has nothing to do with it, that there are enormously well-earned intermediaries, managers in concentration circles, that today in Serbia, in my Cačka, in Belgrade wherever you want, there are companies that sell items worth thousands of euros, where you announce by phone whether you will come from a catalogue to choose an item or a collection, that they will deliver it to you at home, that you will pay it in cash, and that the state will not have any single tax. If it is known that the efficiency of collecting VAT in Serbia has come down to a dramatic 50 per cent, or somewhere, if the system of this insurance should ensure that whoever has the property of a million euros, who in one year earned 150 thousand dinars and you charge him a tax, when we know that in Serbia we can count on the fingers of one hand how many of these procedures are being conducted and that nothing has happened in this relationship, then, if we forgive this, once again, to say the jargon, 'to get out', I don't mind, but I appeal to all of you. I don't dispute your good intentions, but it's a very difficult place to cover, and it's very skilled for those who are able to play every regulation that exists. I want to say that Serbia's tax leaks irreparably, that you know this well and that this is something urgent today in Serbia, more important than any other issue. In Serbia, respected colleagues and respected colleagues are practically stealing half the budget over the course of one year. It's very important that we understand and that we all do everything we can to prevent it, because education, health care, social needs, pensions, sports, culture, etc. is financed from it. So it's the last hour, we're going to adopt the 2008 budget soon, to deal with these issues, because we see that individuals are still enormously rich, and that society is rapidly weakened in financial and then in every other sense. As for the amendment and addition of the Insurance Act, we cannot declare this solution because we have not even declared ourselves to a concept that provides such privatisation to sell 70 percent of social capital. In particular, we would not be able to do so when it comes to insurance companies and I join colleagues who have said here that, unfortunately, some of these insurance companies have been the source of funding political campaigns for many years in Serbia, at different levels. You have the Petrovic brothers, who are pillars in two such systems, one in the Post Office, the other in, therefore, one completely unmotival variant. I believe that it is possible for these things to be arranged in a different way, because we are talking about the financing of political parties and the formation of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, which should control how political parties spend budgets, and you have in Serbia political parties behind which such enormous and financial systems stand, makes no sense. We're adults and we understand what this is all about. You can't fix this with any amendment. It would be an important amendment to say that it cannot be sold more than 49 percent. Knowing that this is not possible, that you will not vote for such a thing, the SPS MPs, in the voting day, will not support amendments and additions to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6989	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Koprivica, and let Zdravko Topalović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6990	Dear People's MPs, if the text of the Amendments and Supplements Act is carefully read, you will see that the Proposer proposes to supplement the provisions on the privatisation of the social capital of the insurance company and provides for the implementation of the privatisation process, which was its sole objective, along with, of course, the transfer of domestic insurance companies to foreign insurance companies, and it is invaluable. In order to have full control over the privatisation, you put it in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and the Deposit Insurance Agency, by system - to take in time, I would say, 'take', what little is left and what you haven't "helped" so far, i.e. privatized. Given the specificities of the activity of insurance, you should not have left the privatisation of insurance companies to the Ministry of Finance and the Deposit Insurance Agency. In view of the legal situation of insurance companies, as well as the position of employees in companies, it is wrong to abandon the concept of payment of financial compensation to employees in insurance companies and their equalisation with employees in other companies whose capital is privatised. Practically, these changes will remove financial compensation for employees in the insurance company, so the company's privatisation process will be subject to general provisions of the Privatisation Act, which means selling social capital, sharing shares, along with their records in the Privatization Register, and employees in companies, as I said, remain without a cash compensation, which has so far been 200 euros for a full year of insurance internship. Dear People's MPs, what kind of government this government would be, in this case, proposing to Article 21. The draft law is not a detailed sale of privatisation capital, so the purchase price from the contract on the sale of capital is paid to the Agency. In particular, I am apostrophysing and quoting Article 2, which says: "The assets referred to in Title 1 of this Article shall settle the costs of the sale in the privatisation process and the special compensation for the conclusion of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets (dependencies)". You're still saying, Mr. Minister, "The amount of commission from Article 2 of this article is prescribed by the minister in charge of finance affairs," so you. Mr. Minister, you are in this country, Serbia, barring crime. Since the cost of selling capital is precisely determined by heading 3, pay particular attention -- "the compensation achieved by the conclusion of the contract on the sale of capital (provision) is determined by the minister". Respected Serbian citizens, you now see that the commission, indicated by the SRS, is determined by the minister, that crime gets protection from the state. So, when it's all seen, it logically follows that it's not the purpose of this law that you said, Mr. Minister, it's the purpose of privatising insurance companies and selling them into depravity, first of all. The second is the commission you'll get and put it in your thieving pockets, and, third, the release of domestic insurance companies to foreign insurance companies, and it's a waste. Unfortunately for Serbian citizens, Serbia will be left with only ice, as our genius president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, said in connection with your thieving privatisation, and you will be filling the commissions and percentages of your thieving pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6991	The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic. He's not here. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we now have on the agenda the law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, or read - the law on amendments and additions to the law on the sale of insurance companies. Mr. Minister, we at the SRS are now in a position to detect your complete democratic capacity for the sale of enterprises. Recently, when you were authorized by the government to amend and supplement the tobacco law, you spoke for three minutes, the truth unknown. And you were probably ashamed to talk about an area that you didn't know enough, so it turned out that in the government of Vojislav Kostunica these things were better handled by the Minister of Agriculture and he was later, instead of you, when the amendments were on the agenda. When it comes to the sale of the tobacco industry, you were in progress and you know how it goes. That's how you came by now, when the law on the sale of insurance companies is on the agenda, and you spoke about 13 minutes. So this sales job is going a lot better than defending something that should stay in this country. The insurance system is an important sector in finance. You can apologize nicely to the Ministry of Finance, and here you can listen to MPs who actively participate in what is on the agenda. With you, Mr. Minister, I can agree in one thing, which is that insurance is a very important financial sector. You have listed three reasons why this law should be passed, and most citizens who are interested in this issue, therefore, the expert public, as well as the MPs, remember well, when this law was passed in 2004, that Mr Igor Mirovic, as an authorised representative of the SRS, spoke of what would follow the basic law, and that is exactly what you were talking about in the light of this law. So three years ago, we saw clearly what this government's goal was. Who should benefit from privatising businesses in Serbia? First of all, there should be a state of Serbia and citizens of Serbia. Is that so? Everyone knows that it is not, but the greatest benefit of it is those who have been in power in Serbia since 2000, who have made good preparations for tycoon creation, who can now buy everything that is worth in Serbia. It should not be very clever to conclude - if there is a need to privatise some industrial enterprises, and the SRS is in agreement with this, because of new technologies, because of new management, can Serbia's citizens working in insurance companies not be able to manage these societies successfully, do we not have enough capable managers who can successfully run insurance companies, but we also have to sell them? But we must sell, because it will be of great benefit to those who now exercise power, who make up the government of the Republic of Serbia. He then asked a question from counterpart Milorad Buh, a member of the SRS, which is why employees in insurance companies are now silent and do not complain much about it, and you, in explaining this law, have said that what was their request, instead of 200 euros per year of work, instead of effective money, is now turning it into action, so it was one of the reasons why they may have now changed their relationship to such privatisation. The separation of life from non-life insurance is one of the problems this law intends to solve, so you said that you followed the environment a little bit as it stands, well, all over the world, so you saw, on a sample of 60 countries, that 30 countries have it separated, 30 unseparated, life insurance and non-life insurance works for one insurance company, so you left a two-year period for us to do it in a different way, as highly developed countries do. You had a dilemma about how you would treat foreign branches, which are about 15 in the state of Serbia, so you said, "We have to leave this situation for five years, and we'll see what the situation will be like." In five years, you will completely destroy what generations and generations in Serbia have fought and created, but I hope it won't take long, that you won't make it all the way to the end, because Serbian citizens don't want that to happen, the SRS is also doing its best not to come into such a situation. Then logically, some questions can be asked - who has the priority of investing in insurance companies? The most logical thing would be to have it by citizens of Serbia who otherwise could not make the privatisation. In detail and very professional terms, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic spoke of it. What bothers you more about going to the privatization of insurance companies? Let me remind you again, most Serbian citizens know it's a commission. Mr. Minister, I don't think you're the only one who's doing a nice job on that commission, but mostly, that's the point. Joining the World Trade Organisation, or connecting with them, will not particularly affect this part, so I think Serbia can develop successfully, increase the potential of its insurance companies. I also have a few specific questions for you. How many foreign branches are involved in life insurance in Serbia? For them, it's mostly characteristic. How many employees do they have? What's their security number? Is the National Bank, probably the Ministry of Finance unable to answer this question successfully, but I'm referring to the NBS, did the NBS control in 2006, 2007 with these insurance companies, probably foreign branches, and what are the findings? When Serbian citizens saw in the announcement that there would be a law on amendments to the Insurance Act on the agenda in our parliament, do you know what they expected this government to propose? You know that for several years in a row, and I can certainly speak for the district where I come from, and that's the Mačvani County, there's also Kolubarski, so, for two or three years in a row, the largest number of agricultural products, due to natural disasters, such as rain, the city and others, is destroyed. The largest number of agricultural producers in Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Ljubovija, most catastrophically affected, are agricultural producers who have smaller land and own less agricultural land, so they are not in a position to carry out all the agrotechnical measures and to have modern equipment and machines for processing these agricultural products. They cannot deal intensively with agricultural production and secure their agricultural products, so they expected the government, the finance minister, especially the agriculture minister, to propose that this law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act also contain appropriate provisions. However, the government does not care about agricultural producers, does not care about the citizens of Serbia, but rather about the interest group themselves and those who support them, as well as those who make them big and good profits. The people will stand up against it in the elections and will certainly not allow you to continue robbing this Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6993	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, then, MP Mikic Predrag.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6994	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I ask you to explain one thing - do you know that the provision of Article 15 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, which, in the Insurance Act, in Article 180, is added by Article 180a, contrary to the Constitution? "The National Bank of Serbia and the persons employed by the NBS, as well as the person who, under the orders of the National Bank of Serbia, performs the duty established by this law, are not responsible for the damage caused by the performance of that duty, unless it is proved that the damage has been done by intentional or extreme negligence. '" Mr. Minister, this is in direct contrast to Article 35(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that everyone has the right to compensation for material and immaterial damage caused by illegal or irregular work by a state body. For your information, this provision is in conflict with Article 5. Law on State Administration and Article 124. Law on civil servants, since these provisions provide for an unconditional obligation to compensate for damage caused by illegal or irregular work. She is, even, contrary to Article 83. The National Bank Act, which employs the NBS equates with all government officials. Mr. Minister, are the employees of the National Bank polar bears or sacred cows, why do they have other treatment and other status? What would the rest of the people who were caused by the damage by their actions or by their failure to act? To prove that it was done on purpose or in extreme disregard? It doesn't exist anywhere. So you're proposing a law that's in direct collegiation with the Constitution. It's also clear to laymen, but both the Government and you, as resolute minister, should be. I suppose you have some legal service, is that there is no Constitutional Court and that here is breaking the Constitution every day, but I don't understand why all civil servants, including the National Assembly, the Government and all ministries, would have to suffer the consequences of their irregular or illegal work, except for those who are employed at the National Bank. So why should part of the National Bank and its employees be above Serbia's legal order? Mr. Minister, this is why you immediately withdraw this law or explain how it is possible to knowingly violate the Constitution. You are also obliged to the MPs and citizens of Serbia, especially considering how the National Bank acted and treated individual insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6995	The word has a People's MP, Predrag Mikic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6996	Fellow MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, today's draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, which the government has submitted, increasingly reminds me of the privatisation of the banking system in Serbia, so we are now able to have only foreign banks, which at very high interest and unfavourable conditions have drawn our citizens into growing debt slavery. Why am I telling you this? It is precisely for the reason that I remind Serbian citizens of one thing that we had the opportunity to listen to when you proposed changes and additions to the banking system in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to warn the citizens of Serbia that the proposal for today's law will experience the same fate that we experienced when we proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the banking system of Serbia. The Centre for the establishment and operation of insurance operations depends on the type of insurance the company deals with and amounts for payments are made in a counter-indicating value. The insurance company is obliged to provide in its business the basic capital of the company, that it shall always be at a height not less than the amounts prescribed by the Insurance Companies Act. The National Bank of Serbia has been a regulator and supervisor in the insurance sector since May 2004. This means that the National Bank of Serbia issues and withdraws a work permit, agrees on the qualified participation of acts of society and assesses the fulfilment of conditions for members of the board of directors and supervisory board and for an authorised person. The law is respected in these facts, but Serbian citizens are interested in one other thing, and it is related to the period since 2000, i.e. from the arrival of the DOS government until May 2004. As an example, I will state the Belgrade Imperial Insurance case, which has blocked the current government's account in December 2003, I think of Deputy Prime Minister Labus and Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Although the insurance company had liquidity at the moment, this is how thousands of citizens who chose Imperaal Insurance, who were given trust and large amounts of money to secure property, cars and others. By blocking the account itself by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, the work of Imperial Insurance does not stop, but contracts are concluded on the insurance of all kinds, so the question arises - what about the money received in that period that has arrived at the account, which has been blocked only for the damages suffered to the citizens. "Imperial Insurance", as an insurance company, went bankrupt and the bankruptcy process lasted more than four years. It says that in the judiciary system they are not expedient as they are presented to Serbian citizens. The bankruptcy proceedings are pending before the Belgrade Trade Court. In this whole case, it is important who blocked it, which is why, first of all, I think of Mladjan Dinkic, and with his expertise he has damaged thousands of citizens, who have settled all their financial obligations in the conclusion of a contract with the insurance company Imperial Insurance. I'll just give you an example of vehicle insurance. Those who have suffered the damage that has been done to them have given their money, and after four years they are unable to collect. Is that the expedition you're taking us to the European Union?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6997	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Despotovic called, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6998	Dear citizens, I am personally familiar with the non-professional business of the insurance company Winner saves, Austria - Vienna. This insurance house does not pay compensation, although customers pay their life insurance on a regular basis. In this respect, the change in their decision is not affected by the proper medical documentation attached, nor by the initiation of court proceedings by their clients. That's why I'm asking, I'm taking the opportunity since the minister is here, that the competent ministry will review this unprofessional behavior and protect our citizens, if they couldn't do it from our insurance houses. Nothing terrible will happen if we protect our citizens from such unprofessional insurance houses. Dear citizens, think carefully when you want to ensure your life, with whom and under what conditions. Consider also well that this unprofessional, pyramidal insurance company "Viner saves" has its own representation and clients in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u6999	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jaroslav Hrebik first called, and then Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I am reporting because of the untruths spoken about the situation that has been mentioned here many times, the situation in Old Paz, and also, let me point to some facts. The session of SO Stara Pazova was held in September 24th, where two members of the G17 Plus Municipal Committee were physically attacked. On that occasion, security from Zemun was present, which also brought one committee to the session and stopped at the door of the SO, or hall where the session was held, and prevented the other council members from entering the hall. So these are the facts recorded by the camera, there's material that can prove it. Next. Srjo Komazec, president of the municipality of Stara Pazova, who was once a national MP, a province MP and president of the municipality, has a country in Stara Pazova, which is foreseen for the industrial zone according to a new proposal for a spatial plan. If the proposal is passed, the land will be worth about a million euros. Furthermore, to be even sadder, the move of the country where the company in Austria wants to invest, to hire three thousand people is not intended for an industrial zone, and it would provide a job for so many people, but it is not an instance, nor a general interest of the citizens of Stara Paz municipality, but an interest in creating an industrial zone where the president of Srjo Komazec municipality has land. Also, Stara Pazova company Inkar, which is involved in the production of special vehicles for economic purposes, wants to expand its capacities and build one hall, and since November 2006, cannot get permission to expand its production. Otherwise, the value of the investment is 10m euros. The project was agreed by SIEPA, the Export Promotion Agency, as well as the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises. In this way, the recapitalisation was prevented and questioned whether the project could be realised at all. So much for your stories as your authority in the Old Paz municipality is good and understands the needs of the citizens of Old Paz. But, I know, you've started your campaign, for you she's in progress, so you're talking globally, not in the interest of citizens who live in one locality, but it's a broad story. Also, Gordana Gajic is, and this can be proven, a committee member in the Municipality of Stara Pazova, there is evidence and it is verifiable. All that can be examined, please. Also, Old Paz doesn't have any hotels. A project was created presented to the president of the municipality and the president of the municipality rejected the project. Simply, Stara Paza can no longer be considered the advanced municipality she once was in SFRY, in that great Yugoslavia, another large municipality by rank, by the quality of the development of the economy and by the development of a small economy. It is now completely destroyed, by the negligent Serbian Radical Party. These are, please, facts that are verifiable, not empty stories that you're selling here at a pay phone about the Old Paz municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7001	I thank the People's MP, Hrebik. Mr. Secretary answered for the word. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Please let me lead the session to the end. Mr. Secretary answered for the word. Comments, later. I made myself very clear. Mr. Secretary answered for the word. Don't make me apply any other measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7002	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to refer to a few of these exhibits. If it's necessary, I'll get back to you, especially given the fact that this is a debate in principle, and we'll have a chance to hang out when the amendments come up. Given the course of discussion, I consider it my obligation to draw attention to a few things, as well as to say some of my views on issues that I consider important. First of all, from more exposure, I have concluded that there is one, that I call it, a delusion, or a lack of knowledge of facts, which is that we have two insurance companies in majority social property. So that's just not true. We only have one insurance company in most social property, and that's "Dunav," while the DDOR is in minority social property, and I mentioned it, I even said it was about 42-43%. Why do I think this is important? It is important because when it comes to the question of what percentage of ownership is offered for sale under privatisation, it is here for this insurance company completely irrelevant. So, are you going to offer 100%, then sell 42, or offer 70% and sell 30 and something, it's irrelevant for the future ownership structure, which, even without your activity, will form in such a way that social property goes as a minority package. This is, at the same time, an important signal that the privatisation of this society is necessary, that it should be implemented immediately and without delay, because it will be executed. If we don't, they'll do someone else, and we'll stay with the mutilated minority section. At the same time as this argument, I want to tell you that if that's how it's understood, then our participation, under our terms, is social or state, in fact, on the market -- one-third, not two-thirds, as was said, and then the question is what to do with that second-third. It is not the subject of this law, but the strategy, in the opening statement, has pointed out, is that it goes to a professional investor who would minorityally capitalise on this company, improves its performance and enables it to be held on the market and in this market competition. Another delusion, or lack of knowledge of the text, is the idea that this law solves the issue of privatisation in the area of insurance. That's not true at all, because the issue has already been settled by the existing law. We didn't need this law to get into privatisation. This law changes, so to speak, the way and access to privatisation, and in no way introduces it. Therefore, the story is that the law is passed because of privatisation, that it could be easier to privatise, does not stand, because we have an existing law. If this didn't work out, what would happen? Under the existing law, 100% of social capital is sold and employees receive 200 euros in dinars, so to speak, and not in actions, moreover, former employees get nothing and citizens get nothing. So this is about, in practice, changing the conditions of privatisation and not introducing privatisation as such, and these conditions are changing, so to speak, for the benefit of the workers and for the benefit of the citizens of this country. The idea of a percentage that should be kept or not. It's very important here to bear in mind that before this privatisation model, we had this model with the majority free division, and I have no intention now, nor is this where we should discuss it, since the privatisation model, as it is, is already accepted. However, in these other cases, we were witnessing that many, and even the code, for us very significant companies, people were pushing and waiting in line to sell and cash their minority part, not thinking who stood as an offer, whether it was Slovenian or someone else. The third question I wanted to mention is this commission, which here becomes some kind of light motive. The commission refers to the compensation that the agency carrying out the process must receive, so that it can cover its costs. Let me remind you, the Privatisation Agency already has, by this same solution, a certain percentage that is allocated from the privatisation income and there is no reason why this solution should not be applied here. Of course, here the percentage will be far lower, but these are the funds that are public and which are publicly recorded, established, and go to one state body, and not any private organization or individual. Finally, the issue of privatisation, as you can see from this, is not the thing we want or won't. We must have an answer to the movements on the market, which are present and which are with us. Our lives can't wait, he's going alone, and we need to get involved. I would like to comment on one significant remark that has been made here by at least two MPs, which concerns the provisions of the law in Article 15, i.e. the exclusion of the responsibilities of the People's Bank workers. I have to tell you that I also had problems with this text, and in the phase of law-making, I talked and asked if it was constitutional or not constitutional, is it possible? Approximately, the answer I received was that it was a prescribed provision of the Law on Banks and that it was constitutionally harmonised, etc. I've heard the remarks that have been made here, and as an economist, I can't take my stand, but what's good in this whole story is that we have an amendment that requires that this member be excluded, so if we come to the conclusion that he's unconstitutional, we don't have to withdraw the whole law, but, by that amendment, we won't accept him. Also, the other good thing is that we still have time to discuss the amendments, so we're going to use that time to review the fundamentality of the remarks again. If the legal experts confirm what we have now had the opportunity to hear, there will be no problem, at least on my part, that member will be excluded. Thank you for your attention, you can do business now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7003	I thank the minister. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, only in order. First, Mr. Petar Jojic answered, and then Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Please, I'm asking you to let me run the session. Belief, sit down and listen to me, please. I'm being tolerated to you, so be yourself to me. First, the word is Mr. Petar Jojic, and then Mr. Veroljub Arsic, then Mr. Milivojevic. Who else answers the word? Please. What's the question? Can you do it without the theater? (Miss Radeta, from the scene: I answered first. I see who answered first. Mr. Jojic answered first. If you want to keep fighting, there's no point. Are you answering for a word? (Petar Jojic, from the place: I give up. Do your comrades let you go? Here you go, Veronica, but before that, I gave Mr. Secretary a word, according to Article 93 of Section 5, which says that the Prime Minister and members of the government get a word when they ask for it. Don't interpret it. Come on, if you have any objections, put it on. Here you go, Veronica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7004	A complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you have now spoken of, will be heard in a few minutes from a colleague who will give you a professor's lecture, I don't have time. Yesterday, you didn't know to finish your session, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, so the minister lost his ability to speak. That's why today's minister, here present, was taught by your mistake yesterday, appeared before the principle debate was concluded, which is completely illogical. Of course, the minister has the right to report after every MP, but now he obviously intended to round up the debate, not to pass as Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7005	Let me give you back your time, just in case.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7006	Thank you very much. So I came back for the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I'd like to say a few things about the truths he made for this pay phone in this place. First of all, Mr. Hrebick, you chose a time when you didn't think there was a way to answer what you brought out of this pay phone. It took you from this morning, 11 o'clock, when you were talking about it, to get instructions so far, or to think about what you should say, or maybe you chose timing when you were looking at your folks at home. Now they'll have something to hear from those you showed up for after this pay phone. First of all, as far as Old Paz and Mr. Srja Komazec are concerned. You have heard here from several MPs, today and these days, unfortunately for you, and fortunately for the citizens of Old Paz, that at Srje Komazec citizens have no objections, nor can they have them. That you wanted to so-called. You bring an Austrian firm to build an object where agricultural land is, that's your problem, or you've missed a commission. We can't help you with that. You tried to help yourself by offering bribes to Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Vukic and Mr. Todorovic, to convince Mr. Srdko Komazec to let them build there. Your story of how many employees would be -- an industrial zone was formed, with complete infrastructure, in Old Paz, let the gentlemen choose there, as well as the others who build in the industrial zone. According to your logic, it might come to someone's mind, and that's what I told you the other day in the hallway, when we discussed this topic, to say, I'm going to hire 3,000 people, but I want right here in this place where the city building is; take it down, so that I can build my own business facility where I'm going to hire 3,000 people. There is something to be respected, Mr. Jaroslav Hrebik. Of course, you don't know that, because you can't respect yourself, you can't respect the National Assembly and you can't respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, Mr. Mrkonjic, for just a few more seconds to inform the public of Serbia and you, fellow MPs, that Jaroslav Hrebik has currently been convicted on the basis of a police report from Slovakia, because he has declared his driver's license, which he received in Serbia, invalid, or lost, and therefore received a new driver's license in Stari Pazova. Meanwhile, his driver's license, our Serbian, from Stara Paz, sold in Slovakia, and the Slovak authorities came to the data, i.e. established this abuse and sent a letter to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, OUP Stara Paz, to initiate a criminal case against Mr. Jaroslav Hrebik. He's already been on the subject, and imagine a coincidence, he and his dad own the Semafor company, which deals with learning these new drivers, instruction. They do such a job, and Mr. Jaroslav Hrbik abuses his driver's license in this way, or resales it, and takes another in both Slovakia and Serbia. Of course, it is no wonder, given that Mr. Hrebik was the chief negotiator with the committees who were to break up the Old Paz Assembly when they were offered 10,000 euros. You didn't bring money, you brought someone else, but you were the one who negotiated with these people and promised 10,000 euros each.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7007	You two retired on behalf of Mrs. Radeta. Then first, Srdjan Milivojevic. Mr. Arsic, please, I'll resign, so you preside, but if you've retired, be correct. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: I did not retreat. Then wait. It's Srja, so it's Pera, so it's you. No problem. Mr. Peter, then Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7008	Ladies and gentlemen, the councilors, the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Hrebik thought he was handling that old saying -- "if someone should tell the truth, so that they suffer for it, they better suffer what he said the truth, rather than suffer the truth, that no one says it." So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been hearing praises here for several days about Mr. Srja Komazec and I can agree that it's only good, from what I've heard about him, his name. It's a very nice, lovely name. I've had the opportunity to make a little enquiries both in Paz and in India, and in people who are responsible for the prosecution of people who commit abuses, about who Srdja Komazec is. Look at the wonders, I found one record, since this morning I heard that this man doesn't have a criminal record, nor has an ant ever been trampled, the maltene is a candidate for the White Angel. Look at the wonders, I heard that this man was guilty, that he was prosecuted and disciplined. Here's a record that proves it and confirms it for those who don't believe. I'll give you a photocopy, don't worry. He says like this, Mr. Komazec Srjo, please, if you can't talk me out of it, try to keep your mouth shut, it's not hard, believe me. Well...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7009	I beg the Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7010	Komazec Srdjo beat her at his job, Racic-Sash Jasmin, who was pregnant at the time, and says yes, I hit her with my fist and my chin and I told her, I will slaughter you and I will kill you if you talk about me. Whoever doesn't believe, here's the record from the hearing. I say this for the truth, for the public and for the citizens of Serbia. Since we heard here that Mrs Gordana Gajic was not born or lived or has a place in Stari Pazova, I have asked the police today and the police have provided me with the following information, that Gordana Slavko Gajic, born on January 21st 1964 in Vojnovići, Municipality of Foca, Republic of BiH, with a unique home number of citizens 2501964715587, and for those who fail to understand, I will repeat, 250196471.... Please, this is the public information you can get, I've got it and it says for what purpose I've got it. It is said to have a place of residence in the municipality of Stara Pazova, the town of Nova Paz, the street of Major Gavrilovića No. 006. Confidence shall be issued for the purpose of regulating the denial at the session of the National Assembly. I'll give you confidence, so go ahead and try. When I'm talking about Mr. Jaroslav, I'm going to finish this, he's a man with a driver's license, so he's passed a doctor's examination, because in this country, for a man to drive a motor vehicle, he needs a doctor's examination. Obviously, to deal with politics, it doesn't have to go through. Some have made that clear by denunciating this man who advocates the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7011	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The word has Mr. Petar Jojic, so Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Martinovic, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, and then the replica - Mr. Hrebik.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I received a petition signed by more than 400 inhabitants of the inhabited town of Banatski Brestovac. The citizens of Banatski Brestovec support the director of OS "Olga Petrov" Alisi Uskoković, who has a residence in Banatski Brestovac. The people of Banatski Brestovac are mainly parents of children attending Olga Petrov OS in Banatski Brestovac. The parents of Banatski Brestovac are actually against Mrs. Alice Uskokovic's shift, which the democratic bloc is currently seeking to replace. The democratic bloc has also replaced the school board at this school, according to my knowledge. This petition was signed, I say, by the citizens, i.e. parents of children attending primary school in Banatski Brestovac and are asking for the current director to remain, as an honest man, as a professional and capable of running a primary school in Banatski Brestovac. I've been asked to present this to the MPs. I ask the question and ask for an answer from the Minister of Education, Mr. Zoran Loncara - who organised this action for the replacement of the Director of OS in Banatski Brestovac, Mrs. Alice Uskokovic? In this week, we had, as well as the previous weeks, a signing campaign for petitioning public service to transfer the trial directly from The Hague to Prof. Vojislav Seselj, because it is in parallel law in both the world and how important it is for the public to be involved in these processes. The individual, Professor Vojislav Seselj, is being tried, and in fact, is being tried by the Serb people. We had the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to meet with our citizens in the Republic of Serbia, and in southern Banat, where there is great support for citizens, to ask the public service to direct the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj, so that the citizens of Serbia know what is happening there, what kind of trial, what kind of court it is, to know what kind of judges are, to know that international powermakers' policy has been put above and above justice. For this reason, we believe that the public service must pass on the trial of Professor Vojislav Seselj, who is being accused and has not committed any crime. That's why we're gonna keep doing this. We certainly expect a positive answer from television, that this transmission be truly direct and that citizens know what kind of court it is, that they know who judges Serbia and who judges the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7013	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7014	You'll get, dear colleague, right on the line maybe tomorrow, I doubt you'll get it now. I was surprised, indeed, by your concern for the citizens of the Old Paz municipality, especially by the fact that many will remain, because of someone allegedly employed, without a factory hall. I ask myself, what are you going to do in a party that led a policy that left hundreds of thousands of citizens out of work? Let me ask you, simply, how much commission have you been given from the Austrians to attack the president of the Municipality of Srjo Komazec of Old Paz, representing the SRS, or, how much is it promised to you if you succeed in making that decision somehow? Let me tell you something else. Fortunately, Serbian citizens, you only have presidents in two municipalities. Unfortunately, citizens of the Zaguvica municipality, the president of the municipality is from your party, until yesterday's counterpart, Dragi Damjanovic. How does the G17 rule in the municipality of Strawberries? By the president of the G17 municipality leaving for the assembly pay phone and saying, yes, I was setting up public procurement, setting up a certain bidder to make the most favourable offer, and, in addition, it's my intimate friend. Is that an abuse? The same president of the municipality comes out and says, "whatever you want, the municipal silos no one has used, so I gave them to a friend of mine again." He's not answering again. Or, what about the president of the municipality who forbids the municipal administration of decisions made by the Assembly of the Municipality to publish in "The Official Messenger"? Is he the President of the Republic? What is he? Here, I'm reading in the paper now, Mr., your president, Dinkic, is going to Zagupica tomorrow to open a green market, because again some intimate friend of the G17 president was making that green market. You're opening something open; the only thing you did there is some balloon hall, which, along with it, is sneezing. I fully understand, I fully understand, there will come a moment when there will be no parliamentary immunity behind you, no immunity from ministers and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then you'll have to answer for every use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7015	I thank Mr. Arsic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, chairing this session, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has injured Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "To the People's MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker." You had to give your word to Mr. Veroljub Arsic, because he came forward about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's right. It's not gentlemen to raise your voice to the MPs of the SRS. I think that you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, can see that the MPs of the SRS are constantly present in this room, that we are indeed fairly involved in discussions on all points of the agenda. It's not up to you to discipline the MPs of the SRS. If someone needs to be disciplined in this room, then it's ministers in the Serbian government. As the MPs of the SRS participate in the discussion, they try to fix the disastrously bad bill proposals that come to us, say, certain ministers, as Milan Markovic did today, text messages, yawn, laugh, with their hands in their pockets walk around the hall, come out, they're not in the hall, etc. It is not up to Mr. Minister Cvetkovic to say who has the right to go out for a pay phone and on what grounds. Mr. Minister here is a guest, a representative of the Serbian government, who should explain the bill that arrived at the National Assembly, not to play the president of the National Assembly here, or the chairman. Mr. Mrkonjic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly, especially respect the dignity of the parliamentary group most constructively involved in the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-02-0.u7017	I thank my young colleague. As much as I respect the dignity of the MPs, I would like all MPs to assess, not just you, Mr. Martinovic. Thank you very much. The session will be held tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
