ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meeting is attended by 107 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'd like to inform you that no one has reported the prevention of presence. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending law and additions to the Security Act (the follow-up in particular) I would like to remind you that at yesterday's part of the session we have interrupted our work during the review of the amendment submitted by MP Dejan Mirović to article 2. Before we continue to apply the amendment to Article 2, which was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic, we have a statement by the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9501	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group promised yesterday that we would not report to the Rules of Procedure while the amendments to the Amendments to the Amendments Act and the Supplements to the Insurance Act are under discussion. Don't get nervous, please. We won't answer as long as this point lasts, but that doesn't mean it, and we told you that we will tolerate everything Tadic's villainy duo can and can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9502	Mrs. Radeta, please, I'm warning you sharply that you can't speak from a congregation pay phone like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9503	Mr. Albianic, I will always speak my mind from the assembly booth. Here, now you've made me say it again: so, the villain's twin...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9504	Don't repeat, Mrs. Radeta, I'll give you your time, don't repeat that kind of thing at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9505	Mr. Albianic, I have to do it one more time, as long as you're breaking up, I'll do it again. So, the villain's twin...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9506	Mrs. Radeta, please don't use such words as a congregation speaker. You've reported to the Rules of Procedure to announce that you want to work constructively today, and please, don't put such things behind the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9507	First, we worked constructively yesterday. That's the first one. Secondly, I don't know how you know why I called today. I just said in the opening part that we don't want to obstruct Parliament's work, but that we won't allow courtship, criminal behavior...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9508	Mrs. Radeta, I'm doing this for you, to preserve your integrity, so that you don't say ugly words for a congregation speaker, words that aren't worthy. So I ask you not to do bad things, but to simply address ourselves in a dignified way from a congregation pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9509	You're sassy and rude now, Mr. Albianic. If you think I'm gonna lose my temper, I won't. As long as you're shutting down, I'll repeat: Tadic and Kostunica's villainy duo, and I'll say what they were doing last night. In accordance with Article 226... When I'm done, give me a warning, it's no problem. Djac Tadic-Kostunica, the villainy duo...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9510	Mrs. Radeta, I give you my warning as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9511	Thank you very much. Therefore, the MP shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed and which it needs to exercise the function of the MP. My question concerns... That is, I request a notice, and you, Mr. Chairman, must provide an explanation from Police Minister Dragan Jocic, who is apparently the third member of that criminal association. Mr. Kostunica, Tadic and Jocic and the rest of the bulument every time Carla del Ponte appears to them in Belgrade must be in the most harsh, rudest, most reckless way to humiliate Serbia, to show how much courtship policy according to Carla del Ponte water. Tonight, early this morning, Dark Mladic, son of famous General Ratko Mladic, was detained. That is, therefore, the question to which you must deliver the answer very quickly – why did they arrest and arrest Darko Mladic? That they may not hope, that famous troika, that Darko Mladic will sell his father for a million euros? Neither his father, a famous and legendary general, has sold Serbs and Serbs, nor will his son, nor will any honorable citizen of the Republic of Serbia, an honorable Serb. So, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you see what kind of water policy Tadic and Kostunica, everything that Carla del Ponte is looking for, and more than that, I don't even believe that she asked them to arrest Darko Mladic, because she seems to be smarter than they are, and it is clear to her that there is no son in Serbia who would betray his father, even if he knew where his father is currently staying. I am convinced that Darko Mladic doesn't know it, but even if he did, he would behave like any Serbian radical -- and if we knew where Mladic is, we wouldn't betray him, we wouldn't sell him. I insist that Mr. Jocic tells us as soon as possible, through you, which is why he brought in Darko Mladic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9512	People's MP Rajko Baralic by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9513	Mr Albianic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 225 paragraphs 2 and 3. I wouldn't answer, but there's a number of people in Pozega municipality who are very upset with the behavior of so-called "breathing." "Get ready, get ready" and "Dr." So, I refer to Mr. Jocic the parliamentary question – does Radomir Lapčević of Donja Dobrinja, the municipality of Požega, have permission to hold arms, and if he does, does he own a license to carry arms? Last night, along with another drunk, he shot at the doorstep of a disabled man, named Milovan Arsenijević, from the village of Cestobrodice from the municipality of Požeg. Is it possible that armed people walk in Serbia and this is how they intimidate those who belong to the SPS? Those who shoot belong to the SPO, the so-called democratic bloc. Is it allowed for someone who belongs to the so-called. A democratic bloc to shoot at disabled people in Serbia? I ask Mr. Jocic to make a paraffin glove for this gentleman and inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and me as the asker of this question. Because it's not normal for people who have the right to be alcoholics in this way, and it's a disease like any other, and who have the right to belong to the SPS, and it's a disease like any other, but they don't have the right to shoot people with disabilities in Serbia because they vote for the SPS. Mr. Albianic, these are your neighbors, and the Chest and Dober are in your area. Please use your authority as vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and also ask Mr. Jocic to put this gang behind the lock and take away their weapons. I'd like to remind you that there's been a threat to the sentence of unauthorized holding of weapons for five years. I'm waiting for the answer to this question and the citizens of Požega are waiting for it with great interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9514	We will forward the question, Mr. Baralic, and within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior should do its job when it comes to individuals who do such things, but don't qualify politically for some other people for it. Thank you. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed, what Radeta's colleague says, we've been looking forward to making it possible for us to work, because you see how we Serbian radicals treat these laws of yours and we have to act. You saw from the explanation and from the text of the amendment of the esteemed fellow magistrate Dejan Mirovic that it is the only possible move of the SRS in the situation where changes and additions to a law that has already made a lot of interference in Serbia and which, in our opinion, does not introduce order in the area of insurance, unlike yours. On the contrary, just as it happens in the entire Serbian economy, which in the privatisation process, the opening of chains of markets, the opening of banks, created a tycoon lobby and the possibility that large insurance companies, which are under the patronage of the leading Serbian tycoons, were rich, and those who, conditionally speaking, were doing business until the entry into force of this law and until the power of power that, under the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, was given to Governor Jelasic, are now in a situation that they can't work. A typical example of this is the insurance company Prizma from Topola, and there are many more. These are people who had regular work permits. I would not mention some of the insolvency and, in relation to my committees, known insurance companies, such as one from Kragujevac, you would say that I force this and make an ad, however, it is a question of the survival of all domestic insurance companies whose owners are people who have their own private capital, and especially because by changing and supplementing this law and even this 15. you tie your hands, so that they cannot normally continue to do their job. Of course, you don't understand that because it doesn't touch you, and, on the other hand, such tycoonisation and in the area of insurance absolutely suits you. You've shared this beautifully according to the principle of 3:2:1, as it were, and as far as participating in boards in public enterprises, you know the people's "no pussy bacon" thing... The same is true of the insurance company, especially the largest in our country -- the Danube Insurance, which is under the patronage of a tycoon political party, if it can be called a political party at all. Therefore, the matter is absolutely clear. Master Dejan Mirovic took note of this, and you can read it in today's daily "Justice" list in his regular column, and see how they now operate in the area of insurance and banking systems and how they live in countries that have already accepted all European Union standards. He is today, read it carefully and will be useful to you, because the data are quite accurate, wrote about Slovakia and the fact that, several years after accepting everything that has come from the European Union, both in the fields of legislative action and in the area of absolutely everything you have asked of them, the country finds itself in a situation that the citizens of Slovakia are extremely difficult to live and endure such a process that has come from the European Union. Now if you ask the owners of these insurance companies... I only mentioned one thing: Prizma company from Topola, because I'm familiar with the case, not only because of the neighborhood I come from, but because of the fact that by the boast of governors and current owners, a man lost his license to work, and he did his job quite regularly. The question is, God forbid you stay in power for a little while, and you won't be able to, because there are so many animosities between you and I already see an end to this government and a decay on the rotten compromises made up of coalitions... But if such a policy continued, we would experience the same fate as the citizens of Slovakia. Or, look at Romania, which has already entered, i.e. on the first step of integration into the European Union – and there the citizens are extremely difficult to live. Now, let's think about where you're being led by these laws and think about why none of our arguments or objections in the principle debate Minister Cvetkovic had any answer that would convince us otherwise. So I don't know who this gentleman is. Indeed, sir, with all due respect to you, you don't look like a minister unless you shaved your beard overnight, so that's what Cvetkovic looks like without a beard. I really don't know who you are. But I am talking to MPs who support this law, amend and supplement, and I am talking about the harmful consequences of the law that has been passed, and about these changes and additions that we do not talk, because it is a fact that nothing good like this law does not bring. I repeat again, you will soon, as long as you are in the parliamentary benches of those two parties... The question is, what's left of each of you is going to be left with that so-called. Some non-democratic bloc, as we call you, as well as the people, the citizens of Serbia, will have these parliamentary mandates in a very small number. But we're really going to be in a situation where in one day, who knows how many laws we put out of force; this can't survive in legal traffic, and people can't do business under these criminal laws. Because we don't want the thief, the tycoonization of the country, the robbery, the kidnapping, we want all the people who want to do this job insurance to do this job without the involvement of the state and without the direct interference of the owners, which and how they make it impossible for honest and normal people to do it. Mr. Minister, I see you haven't dressed up and you're alive and well, so welcome to the Assembly, so we can continue to work nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9516	The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, according to the amendment, and then the People's MP Zoran Krasic according to the amendment, then the People's Messenger Goran Rakovic, and the People's MP, Jorganka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9517	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I hope you won't mind if I talk about the proposed law and especially if I speak, unlike my predecessor, of the proposed amendment. Namely, what's this about? The Master, the Proposer of the Amendment, regardless of his academic title, wrote in the amendment only – is deleted. I don't think the explanation it gives stands, and especially in that explanation there is no wish for the amendment's proposing that we have a serious financial market that will have serious insurance houses in it. What happens if we accept this amendment? Namely, the bill defines the possibility that each insurance company has a chance, due to a higher degree of risk, to secure its job in insurance with a resecuritisation company, reducing the risk. This certainly contributes to stability in the financial market and in general to the market. What happens next? This bill allows us not only to have the opportunity to resect our insurance companies, among domestic companies dealing with resecuritisation, but also with foreign companies. This practically means that we are opening our market to the world, and I hope that all of us here are willing to be part of our single world market and that there is certainly some credibility in this single world market and above all stability, because that stability is a decisive factor for investors, for investors and for new jobs, because that is our ultimate goal. With this amendment, if we accept it, we prevent this intensities from becoming a member of the World Trade Organisation, and in particular we prevent the possibility of our country becoming a member of the World Trade Organisation. That's why I question Mr. Proposer's knowledge. It seems to me that he didn't get a good look at when he signed this amendment, first of all I think it's a political motive, but that political motive does not bring good to our citizens, but brings in one instability, first of all on the insurance market, on the financial market. I propose to all MPs that we reject this amendment and let these amend and supplement the Insurance Act enable Serbia to become a stable country in that part, which will be a magnet for foreign investment, to create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9518	Thank you. Mr. Krasic, please, Jorgenka Tabakovic, then you. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9519	Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, the amendment submitted by Dejan Mirovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group concerns restrictions taken forward by the state of Serbia, and due to some future, very uncertain, time of accession to the World Trade Organisation and under which the resecuritisation is not done in the country, so if it is not in the domestic insurance society - abroad, the resecuritisation obligation is left completely open to insurance at any house. Mr. Matić, I don't know whose ignorance this is, but yours is a record. This amendment will enter into force, you could see it in the transitional and final provisions of Article 25, only five years after the accession of the World Trade Organisation. Could you say some indicative deadline, tens of years, when this will happen, so that you can justify here the urgency of bringing in such a member? It is funny that you present as an argument, because in the light of Mirovic's amendment he writes – the proposed member of the Law is now too old and premature. We are in favour of the World Trade Organisation, but at this point it is too high and premature and the restriction foreseen by the World Trade Organisation should be set at a moment when it is interesting for Serbia. However, the basic issue is liberalisation, which is completely uncritically possible by passing this law. Mrs. Kolundjia said yesterday that many of these amendments have a fundamentally different political concept. I could agree with that in principle. Just in principle. Why? Liberalization, the complete opening of the market for all goods and services is no longer a premise, is no one's dream, nor is it our nightmare. Liberalization is a reality, with all the devastating consequences, in an environment that has already deeply trampled into transition processes. So, Mrs. Kolundzija, it's not about different conceptual approaches, it's about a bad experience of full liberalisation in this area, which is what we're talking about, for example. shares the experience of Slovenia, on one side, and the experience of Croatia, on the other, as the closest witnesses. So, the law on changes and additions to the Insurance Act, which is in fact the law on privatising existing insurance companies and the full liberalisation of the insurance market, at this point is very inclined to meet the requirements of one of the leading Slovenian insurance companies, that is "Triglav", which is state-owned by the state of Slovenia. So, the simplest thing is, we're creating preconditions for, for example, a very certain buyer, for the Novi Sad DDOR, a Slovenian state insurance company. Let me remind you, in one important part of the economy called banking, which is part of the total financial market, over 80% of the banking market is held in domestic hands. So, the Slovenians kept banking mostly under their control. The largest insurance company, Triglav, which holds 40% of the market, did not allow foreign insurance companies to take over 2% of the insurance market. I repeat, in Slovenia, foreign insurance companies only occupy 2% of the market cookies. Why are we not copying from Slovenia, for example, but copying and respecting the orders of those for whom we open the market? I'll answer that. Slovenia is managed by responsibility to its citizens, the high level of income per capita to be realised, and our political elite and the ruling furniture is not managed by the declared goal of better life and greater employment of people. I repeat, you are not managed by more employment or the interest of the citizens. Because if it were to guide you, you wouldn't, as one of the main objectives of structural reform, state the entire memorandum, published in the "Official Messenger" No. 96 of 22 October this year – privatisation of social enterprises, banks and insurance companies and the start of privatisation of public enterprises. Gentlemen, privatisation is not a mantra and a solution for all, it's not a key that opens all locks, and it's basically called -- the employment of people, the right to work, to earn and to live decently. Why am I referring to your memo, Mr. Minister? Because the information is revealed in it, defeating it. Compared to 2005, employment decreased by 2.1% in 2006. Which means liberalization of the market, in which we allow foreign insurance companies to enter, if they don't give us better conditions, which someone said yesterday, package arrangements, and I'll give you data for it, again from your sources. As we do not have lower interest in banking, if they do not employ more people and if the insurance market is one of the country's strategic actions, because the financial market and strategically to the extent that good management and responsible state increases the value of the company to unsuspecting proportions, and without foreign investors to make money. Mr. Cvetkovic, you and I are witnessing my claims. When your friends, and my predecessors in the government, in 1998 - 1990, Mr. Milan Beko, for example, organized meetings where "the slave houses of Belgrade" were to be sold for ridiculous sums and when it was insisted on it as the only solution, because no one had patience or knowledge, but had a precise personal account in the business... Unfortunately, the impoverished job of selling the Slave Houses at that time into bankruptcy has led to today's value... I'm not going to go into details who is behind the buyer, what are the intentions, whether it will be realised, what about the restitution, these are issues that you have opened and will be the subject of further talks, but the price of 360m euros for "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" is exactly the reason why I want to say that these changes and additions should be rejected, because you are trying to hand over the life insurance market today at the lowest possible cost to insurance companies from abroad. There's nothing else you can do about it but your personal interest and the best interests of your associates. Finally, this amendment, like everyone else who reads, is deleted and has a very deep essence, not a different approach, but your blindness for the bad consequences of these actions, is why this law should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9520	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, a replica of the exhibition of Slavoljub Matic. I don't know how, but she recognized yourself in your presentation, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have never abused the Rules of Procedure or the right to a replica. Not that I recognized myself, but my colleague Matic said my name and name. Not only mine, I'm not answering for myself, but he's completely misread my exposure. That wouldn't be terrible, because his flatulence and ignorance don't surprise me at all, I'm used to it in a long series of years as I've been watching all of his misdemeanours, but it's terrible that he said -- because of this amendment and the proposal sent by an SRS MP with an academic title, Mr Dejan Mirovic, is being questioned by the title of Mr Mirovic. Mr. Matić, not only do you not know anything, but you're also insolent, not to say rude. Mr Mirovic, unlike you, not only is he following everything that is happening in the European Union, in Russia, in Latin American countries, but he is doing this from a scientific and professional point of view. Mr. Dejan Mirovic, unlike you, wrote numerous studies, numerous textbooks, very clever readings that you should read. Here, I will take the right, although you are so ungrateful and you did not want to learn anything from the SRS MPs, to give you something from what the Serbian Radical Party has issued, and what Mr Dejan Mirovic wrote, to learn something. Speaking of the hypothetical accession of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation, which is also spoken by a colleague of Tabakovic, I must remind you, which is often in its books and articles apostrophe of Mr Dejan Mirovic, that Russia has been waiting for the World Trade Organisation for 13 years. The day before yesterday, Russian Federation President Mr. Vladimir Putin said, "Russia will not join the WTO, although it has been waiting 13 years, unless it is appropriate for it to open the market." That's how smart people and wise statesmen, like Vladimir Putin, protect their country from tycunization, from the incursion of all these different consortiums and suspicious companies, I don't know what they're all called, who swallow our insurance companies, destroy our banking and financial sectors. I can't explain it to you because you have today, or all these days, a special task that, completely uninformed, in the manner of your party and your president, you're talking about something that you don't have a soft relationship about. As for Mr Dejan Mirovic, he will always be available to you, and I will publicly promise and keep the promise, for starters, to learn something, I will give you one of a series of his books, where he deals with these issues of WTO relations, IMF and World Bank relations with countries such as Serbia and those already having a negative experience in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9522	The word has been given by Parliamentarian Goran Rakovac, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9523	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, we return to the amendments. The DSS MPs used to discuss amendments yesterday, though mostly discussed the Rules of Procedure. Among other things, they were talking about this amendment. Today we're only talking about amendments, that's the deal. We're not going to step down from this deal, but it's not a waste of time to repeat something we pointed out yesterday. In particular, it is a member of the 15th Basic Insurance Act, where the Government intervened, in particular to enable the insurance company to cover an surplus of risk that cannot be covered by its own resources. The resecuritisation can be carried out both domestic and foreign insurance companies, and the whole change in the basic law, initiated by the government, was made to make Serbia easier and faster to join the WTO. I would like to remind you that the Serbian government has adopted an Action Plan to remove obstacles to WTO accession, so it is necessary for all obstacles to be removed by half of 2008. The government took advantage of the possibility, proposing this law on amendments to the Insurance Act, among other things, to intervene with Article 15. The amendment submitted by counterpart Mirovic reads: it is deleted. Therefore, the Government's proposal to amend the basic Insurance Act is deleted. As such, it cannot be accepted, precisely for the reasons why the Government has submitted this amendment. For these reasons, I call on all MPs not to accept this amendment in the voting day, because this amendment, in any case, significantly improves the text of the basic Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9524	Do any of the MPs want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talked yesterday about the amendments proposed by the MPs of the SRS, a question was raised which colleagues wanted to present as something that shows that the MPs of the SRS may not have properly understood the system of amendments, or that we did not go deep enough into the matter of which the law deals, because some amendments are said to - deleted, the article is deleted. For what? We do not want to say that the previous law was good, so we want to return the fact of the previous law. No, but we want to say that the solution that you propose to amend and supplement this law is far worse and that it will affect the citizens of Serbia more than that solution that was in the previous law, which we also think is bad. In the light of the amendments, we've only left the essence of what we're talking about the moment we explain the amendment, because otherwise these 15 minutes that we have to explain the essence of our amendment would be completely pointless. If, with each amendment, I were to provide an explanation on 40 pages, then it would be pointless for me to go out here and talk for five or ten minutes what I want to tell you. To the people of the professional service, these one or two sentences that we write and who are affected by the essence of what we want to change by the amendment are quite enough to understand whether this amendment can be accepted, whether it will be in the spirit of the law or not, and whether or not we want to change the fact of this law that is on the agenda. In the amendment to Article 3, which I had predicted, to say to a member of the law... Otherwise, Article 3 reads: "Article 26(2), the words 'under the conditions of reciprocity' are deleted. "I predict erasing this amendment because we believe that the principle of reciprocity is something very important and very vital for the business and relationship of every serious state. We have often had the opportunity to see the harmfulness of the absence of serious state policy in this area, not only when it comes to insurance and in this area, but also when it comes to trade, when it comes to many other areas. Unfortunately, in this law we predict that all foreign insurance companies, and even their branches, will have more and better rights in our country than we will be able to have in other countries. You heard from my colleague, Jorgenka Tabaković, who explained nicely what it means to open the market prematurely in the way that this law now provides. Otherwise, because of the citizens of Serbia, I have to say that insurance, that is, this type of service, is something to pay particular attention to, because they belong to the so-called. promising services, that the client pays the service first in advance and only later, later, when any damage happens, can come to realize that its possible profit. That's why we think it's not enough that only the market can regulate this matter, it needs a much stronger and more vital role of the state, which has to control and pay attention to what's happening on its market. If Slovenians predict that only 2% of insurance houses can participate in their market, and remind me, Slovenia is a country that is in the European Union, then I see no reason why the state of Serbia has to put this kind of suspension of the conditions of reciprocity and to further open its market, em does not provide their houses with equal participation in matches in those other countries. When I say that a serious and concrete role of the state in control and control is needed, I don't mean the kind of role the state has played since 2000. in the banking sector, when the banking sector is literally destroyed and the domestic banks are completely destroyed to open up space for foreign banks. I don't mind foreign banks, but I do mind that you now have a situation of interest in these foreign banks, whether on loans or saving citizens, are no lower than in the countries in the environment, but rather, they are more. You have an interesting phenomenon when you look at the entire banking system in our country -- that these interest rates, I can almost say, are agreed, because they are already being negotiated behind the back of citizens, which is against the law, and that you have no chance of reaching a competition, the way it should be. Also, there is a very significant issue of monopoly. We had news that upset me as a citizen, that the milk produced in our country is 10 dinar cheaper when bought in Montenegro than in Serbia. What happened after that? Absolutely nothing. Serbian citizens today are buying more expensive milk produced in our country than citizens in Montenegro do today, which shows you clearly that it is at the part of the monopoly. I'm giving you all these plastic examples so this doesn't happen to us in security. If you allow the foreign sector to fully take over domestic insurance, because it is still an important sector for our country, since it is another capital market, you will be in a situation that we will not have a single handful of opportunities to influence what is happening in that sector in the country. It is particularly scandalous also, a member of the 21st proposed law, which provides for the amendment of Article 243v of the Law, which speaks of the possible payment of special fees. A commission for participants in privatisation processes of insurance companies. We have had the opportunity to see that fees are often paid to directors, ministers, assistants, deputies who are already receiving the state's salary to carry out the process and to take care of social capital, or state capital, which should be privatised. Not to mention this law puts a decision in the hands of the minister on the amount of the privatisation fee for this capital, which is totally scandalous. You know what kind of abuses this has produced in the previous period since 2000, and what can only be opened, I don't need to talk about it in particular. We have a fresh example of privatization of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade". The initial price for privatising "The Slave Houses of Belgrade" was 140m euros. It was sold for 360 million. When you add square meters of business space, the average price of square meter values in certain cities, and you know that "Robs houses" have a business space in the center of every city, not on the periphery, it's a very attractive chain for any distributor of anything; when you add business space, square meters, hectares of land that they have, for example. in Bežianjska hair, where they have a huge warehouse space, which is about the best quality of land if someone is shopping in Belgrade today, because it's mostly not there; if you were to add all of this together and count the debt (if I didn't get into the story of how the slave houses were physically creating that debt to be sold the way they were sold), you get a figure of about 550 million euros. It's a rough figure, I don't count the market position, I don't count anything else. This gives you clear information that the state, at a very low starting price, is damaged by at least 200 million euros, and whether someone for privatisation and the privatisation process will get some commission, whether tomorrow someone for privatising one of the insurance companies in this very cheapest way, in what we warn, gets a commission, remains citizens to wonder, and we are trying to prevent it from changing and supplementing this law. What is important to mention, too, is that the consequences of such laws, what we warn about, precisely lead to the beginning of serious and strong social, economic protests by workers in Serbia today. You have roadblocks of farmers, you have protests and demonstrations almost every day, you have people who stay on the street, you reduce the number of jobs, just by implementing and implementing these laws, instead of increasing. With the introduction of serious foreign sector participation, without domestic control, without the presence of the domestic sector, you will have the opportunity to do exactly what has happened everywhere that has happened in the last ten years, which is a drastic reduction in the number of jobs and, in fact, a reduction in income in these particular structures. Because of all this, because of all that is going on and with the workers of Strela, who are on strike, and the Darkave, the Jumka, the Slave Houses, etc., because of all these events, because of the desire to improve the law, to allow citizens of Serbia to live really better and better, but to prevent you from perhaps out of ignorance, not saying evil intentions, do what you do to Serbia, we submit amendments and fight in this assembly with our exhibitions to accept them, and to enable together allow Serbian citizens to have a future and to live better, and not only to declare it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9526	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9527	I will have to include this amendment as well because they are both Article 2 and Article 3. Proposal for a law physically joined by a provision of 25. The draft law, which should include transitional and final provisions in this bill. Mr. Cvetkovic, in international relations there is this so-called a system of establishing relations with a country and there are some clauses and then these clauses are manifested how well relations between the two countries should look. There's a system of privileged nations. Very often, this system is simply being incorporated into some bilateral agreements, which is confirmed by this National Assembly. The system should mean that a country in relations with Serbia differs from others. That's how something manifests, which is ultimately based on the principle of mutuality, and that principle of interrelationship can be the tantrum of corn, as much as I love you, you love me, I love you, you hate me, I hate you. You in Article 3. You're ousting the bill's elemental principle. With your amendment, you delete the words "under the terms of reciprocity". So, there's no more reciprocity as a condition for someone from abroad to come to our insurance market, where they should operate according to the regulations that apply to us. This means that the blood enemy of Mr. Cvetkovic, when this law is passed, can also ensure Mr. Cvetkovic's life. (President: Please don't do this, Mr. Cvetkovic has no enemies and don't improvise. Mr. Albianic, I can always tell from this pay phone that I have a problem with your ignorance. Mr. Cvetkovic and a large number of ministers from the DOS government and this DOS government have a large number of blood enemies. These are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have lost their jobs, Mr Albianic. Mr. Albian, you're really confusing me with your ignorance. I will kindly explain to you that you are no longer making a mistake in life. Mr. Albianic, there's a nice joke that reads like this: the teacher told the children - children, bring tomorrow a hundred dinars for the hungry children of Rwanda. All the kids brought in, little Perica didn't bring in. He's asked by a teacher - why, Perice? Well, my dad says there's no hungry kids there. Last few days, the teacher says, children, bring a hundred dinars for the unemployed Rwanda. All the kids she brought, Perica didn't. Why, Perice? My dad says there are no unemployed in Rwanda. Last month, the teacher says children, all by 100 dinars tomorrow to help the Democratic Party of Rwanda. No one brought the money, the Three-hundred Perica. He's asked by a teacher - why did you bring 300 dinars? My dad says if there's a democratic party in Rwanda, then there's both hungry and unemployed. Since this was a quote to come to your senses, Mr. Albianic, allow me to further convince Mr. Cvetkovic. (President: you have one minute left. I've got time. I have unlimited time for you. I'm not doing this with pain, I'm doing this with pleasure. When it comes to pleasure, time is no factor. Time as a factor of limitations doesn't exist here. For seven years, I've been eager to tear you to shreds, all I've been doing in my life is that. The bank manager, I'll finish it. Mr. Albianic, since I respect the Rules of Procedure, I now warn you, it expires five minutes and immediately afterwards I report to the Rules of Procedure. If we said we weren't going to do business, it didn't mean you were making some...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9528	Thank you, Mr. Krassic, please don't tell jokes at the pay phone. The word is by MP Vladan Vukicevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what most of Serbia certainly wants is for Serbia to be an integral part of the European Union and, of course, to be an integral part of the World Trade Organisation. In order for Serbia to be a part of the European Union and an integral part of the World Trade Organisation, certain conditions need to be created, it cannot be accepted as a member of the European Union without certain conditions, and that is why we here need to pass a set of laws that will allow Serbia to enter an integral part of the European Union, enter this modern world that will have normal flows and where life will be different than it is now in Serbia. Also, if Serbia wants to be an integral part of the World Trade Organisation, it is necessary to create certain conditions and preconditions in order to get you into that membership, which takes time, it is one process. Of course, the law we need to pass today is one of the preconditions for Serbia to be an integral part of a trade organisation. Here, Article 3, which says "under the conditions of mutuality" is deleted. Why is that erased? What's that supposed to mean? It is understood that such a law in the European Union certainly does not mean that there must be this reciprocity. I don't see any competition problem here. With this bill proposed by the government, no one stops competition and no one wipes our insurance houses with a rubber, as someone wants to show it. Let's go back a little bit and see what kind of insurance houses we had in the past, and we had them. We had insurance houses that could open whoever wanted to. So there were no restrictions on opening insurance houses. We may have had the cheapest insurance houses in Europe. The insurance of the vehicle was exaggerating, life insurance was exaggerating, the insurance of the property was exaggerating, but if there was damage, if you survived, if one of the insurance companies had material damage, that material damage from the insurance company couldn't be charged. Now the question arises whether you should have an insurance company that will provide you at perhaps a bargaining price, and that you cannot collect any damage tomorrow. So you have a pro-form insurance company. There was talk here about the banking system, so it's been said that there's been a lot of foreign banks here, so now the interest is high. Interests are interesting. What's bank goods, that's money. Therefore, interest is as it is being handled at this time. No more command economy, no more command market, there's one healthy competition. Let's see, from these banks of ours, that have been here for years, so they're said to have been destroyed, is there one that one of the MPs can say that in that previous period she didn't cheat on her own committee? Is there one that paid the savings fair, the foreign exchange, the dinar, our citizens? There isn't. At some point, everyone cheated on the citizens. What have we experienced? We experienced that Serbian citizens lost confidence in Serbia's banking system. This confidence has not been so easy to restore, but, behold, confidence in the banking system is slowly restored, citizens are again investing in both dinars and foreign exchanges, putting it on savings, so they are putting it now with our banks, because our banks must have a more serious attitude towards their commissioners, according to the savings, towards the citizens of Serbia. Of course, it was imposed by competition from various world banks. I'm not saying that all these banks that are in Serbia are ideal, good ones, some have better, some worse conditions, but all of this will eventually regulate the market, and that interest will sort of bring down, but it's a process. It's hardly anyone can say now -- from tomorrow on, interest in banks will be one or two percent, what businesses and businessmen would like, but it wasn't anywhere, in any country of transition, nor is it possible at this point. We think that Serbia in a previous period... New Serbia's MPs believe that the privatisation itself was neither correct in any segment, nor satisfactory in economy, or in the state, or in the citizens of Serbia, but we must acknowledge that privatisation, which has been back in the process for several years, has been in a very thorny area, a politically insecure area. There's this X company that we think may not be good, they're not good, and the time that's behind us has shown it. What we need in the future are serious companies, serious companies that will live in these areas. In order for these serious companies and serious companies to come, which can seriously absorb unemployment in Serbia and employ unemployed people in Serbia, to create preconditions, to create stable laws, to bring serious companies into a serious state that is politically seriously considering and seeing itself somewhere in healthier, normal conditions, but also in conditions of competition. Because of these companies, these serious companies need to make stable laws, competitive laws, and one is this insurance law. Serious companies want to have the opportunity to re-secure themselves at strong houses. No one here is going to stall domestic security so that they can carry out insurance and reassurance, nor is anyone limiting someone to be economically strong or to be a strong insurance company. No one's holding it back, but, of course, there's gonna be some serious insurance companies, serious firms. That's why we think maybe in a number of opposition MPs, where it's awful easy to write for something -- it's deleted... It's very easy and it's the easiest, it's just one word, but we can't erase Serbia's future, we can't erase Serbia's prosperity, we can't erase the future of these citizens, we can't erase the future of those who will live in Serbia tomorrow. But, of course, we can't forget the past either, we can't forget what insurance companies in Serbia had, what the relationship between these insurance companies in Serbia was to the citizens of Serbia, we can't forget what the banking system in Serbia had, what the relationship between the banking system and the banks in Serbia was to the citizens, and we can say that it was negative. For these reasons, Serbia needs competition. Serbia is not Russia, Serbia is not a powerful state to blackmail everyone now, Russia is the second force in the world, and Serbia is a small country. If you're looking for her on the globe, you can barely find her. If we think we can stop the world's trend of the economy, that we can stop the world, Europe, that we can hitchhike everything and that we're now the most beautiful, and wisest, and the smartest, and that we can beat everything, then we're wrong. We should be an integral part of the EU, an integral part of a reasonable, advanced world, not to waste our lives. Well, and if we're wasting our lives, it's our right, but we don't have the right to waste the lives of those who have yet to live, we don't have the right to keep the future from young people, we have to allow them to have a much better life than we have. I think we have had a better quality of life than our parents had, so we have this obligation, a similar trend in the progress of science, to enable our families, our children and these young people who are only born, to live in a much better and better society than what this is where we live today. That's why New Serbia's MPs want and want to support this law, because this law creates competition, because this law allows Serbia to have better prosperity than it has so far, has competition, so let the competition decide. No one's going to make anyone secure themselves with some foreign insurance company if they have their own and if they're in love with their own. Therefore, all of us at our strong insurance house will ensure, reassurance, we will, if necessary, ignore foreign insurance, but provided that we are a stable insurance company and that what was happening to her in the past does not happen. Therefore, we believe that competition is healthy and that commanding economy, the command market behind us and it cannot be the future, it can only be the past, and the future is something we need to turn around and that is why we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9530	Do any of the MPs want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9531	Mr. Albianic, I'm reporting to the government's representatives under Rule 136, and I'm reporting to you under Rule 121, so you have some fun, Mr. Albianic. National MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly. There isn't one of your excursions to think about; call the service, let them take out these cards of these MPs who escaped, after they forgot and failed to meet their obligation, and I do my job while you're having fun. Of course, what my predecessor just said can be forgotten because he didn't say anything. He talked through the system-- my mother, I'm good. Mr. Cvetkovic, don't you think there's something wrong with these amendments of yours and the additions of this law, on a mentally logical basis? If you delete this now, and you say to Article 25 that it will only apply after six years, since you have one year for this action plan, five years after that, etc., what will remain in the law? There's one thing I need to explain to you. This is the law, these are the changes to the law. When both of them are published then there's a connection between these two texts, so when you connect those two texts, take a computer, tell me what's left of it. Article 25 shall remain in transitional and final provisions. Mr. Cvetkovic, you have this problem with Article 2, and it's even bigger. I warned you a few days ago, get ready, see what you've done wrong here. What you wrote in the explanation and what stands in the changes and additions are two different things, not communicating with each other. I don't know who wrote that for you, maybe Balinian, he wants to skip out on you for a while. With the Constitutional Court Act, you'll just see what they've forgotten there, not to tell you. There's something wrong with the text, Mr. Cvetkovic. Now, if it's all liberal, it's all, like, free, why aren't we present and some of our insurance houses in one of the EU countries, why isn't our own there? You don't think our people would want to go? We'd like to get caught up in that nice market. But I can't go there. Why? It's forbidden. Why? You're not members, you're not this, you're not that. When such a situation is, then the system of the most privileged nations yields results. In what way? Those countries that are not covered by this system are developing economic relations with us. You're developing economic relations by system -- here you go. For what? Because of their commission. Now Vucevic jumps and tells fairy tales, and these guys pull the commission. Look at that logic, man. He defends the bill... (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) I can contact the Rules of Procedure one more time. (Chairman: Don't, please.) I'm saying, can I do the Rules of Procedure? I'm calling in, Mr. Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please respond to what I've told you, Article 121, and if these cards have been removed, I can see that there are those that aren't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9532	We established a quorum at the beginning of the day. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has been made by MP Jorvanka Tabaković, according to the Rules of Procedure. I ask the service to resolve the matter of the surplus card, but it has no significance for the work of the congregation. So the quorum was determined this morning at the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9533	In accordance with Article 226, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the professional services to send an act to the previous speaker under the regular number 9-20026 of 11 October 2007, as it is obvious that Mr Kragujevac did not read the answer to the parliamentary question of my colleague Sreta Perić and regarding the quality of competition in the area of insurance. I will read to you only the last two paragraphs of the answer to the question of colleagues, where Mr Cvetkovic was present, saying that the post of supervision, carried out by the National Bank under the law, was carried out by insurance companies "Delta Generalali", "Viner Savings", "Triglav Kopalnik", "Unika", "Greive" and "Credi Agrill Life". The control procedure identified irregularities in relation to inadequate treatment in relation to risk management rules. That's when you always show that they're not risk investments, or plasmas, so you're lying about them being safe, billable, etc. Then, compared to undeveloped and inadequately installed information systems, which means that you do not have a verifiable electronic database to control, that they do not have an internal control and audit system, as if they also have weaknesses in the functioning of corporate governance systems. It was necessary to seduce order on the insurance market and was introduced in one part and misused in terms of racketeering, closure, etc. However, the weaknesses shown by these societies do not contribute to the claim that privatisation itself brings better quality. I argue, privatisation is not a solution to all the problems, because if the minister writes in a memorandum that there is a need to continue privatisation of banks, insurance companies and public enterprises, and to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, it means - small and medium-sized enterprises to us, and to them large and important systems, created for decades. In addition, these companies that are controlled, compared to those bought here, have very few employees. I insist that you lead people, and that's a logical indication, that they expect economic growth to mean an increase in employment and a better life. Lastly, the life insurance company of Credi Agrikol Life is hiring ten people. This will be done by competition; it will be held by young people who are not allowed to start a family, will ask them to work both Saturdays and Sundays and to sign that they will not go to pregnancy for the next four years. It's the truth about the competition you can expect in this kind of privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9534	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rada Obradovic, then MP Zoran Krasic, and replica, MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9535	Mr. Chairman, as Honorable counterpart Krasic has advertised the Rules of Procedure, the quorum is determined at the beginning of the working day. Article 121 is very clear: "People's MPs are obliged," and I ask you not to count this time in three minutes, "to carry identification cards with you on your way out of the National Assembly. If MPs leave the O.R., etc. Please don't have to do this service, you can reset the system and ask the MPs to insert the cards, those who are present, and we've solved the matter in a few seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9536	Thank you, Mr. Beard. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9537	Of course, Mr. Albianic, he's 136, because I think the arguments given on this bill are not enough. I think they are purely decoratively given, according to a fine story system, such as a kind of illusion in Serbia long ago the EU is now being introduced by the World Trade Organisation. I don't understand why you're operating with illusions instead of operating with facts, with something that's certain. In your explanation, you stated that according to some of your action plans, some business should be completed in December 2008. Then it takes five years for us to wait if this job is done. You know, while Predrag Markovic was there, we passed 250 each year and some laws, which we changed epochal, democratic, developmental, pro-European laws that the Government of Zoran Djindjic passed, all of them, all of them, the boulument that brought them. Now we're changing the epochal law, and two years ago you said -- this is fantastic, this is the best. Of course, for the public it must be, in Article 3, because we protect Serbian interests. In 2007, no more interests will be protected. Now they've released the film, the World Trade Organization. Where is it? Explain to me what tree is the EU, the World Trade Organisation? Can you show me where that tree is where the commission is picked? Guys, the commission's gonna put the state on the line. Just for the commission. Serbian citizens think that those who are government don't know this, and 98% don't know it, and 2% know it. They know the adverse consequences of being after all this. It's gonna be a tough escape. For what? Someone's commission. Someone promised a commission, let's go to law school, let's go to Kobajagi something's going on, something's going on, everybody's up against the Assembly, there's the circus, as the president of the Assembly said, so the biggest circusr, that B92, Enter, Avala, Fox, these, they, they, they, they, would create public opinion. What public opinion? Take a commission, it's a top-notch thing, because behind the hidden commission is hiding something that is epochally successful for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Oh, you handed over the market for the Republic of Serbia to every motherfucker. That's the problem. Mr. Albian, I give you a warning. This morning when you came to this room, you were obliged to take Srdjan Milivojevic or take him to the fishing hall or give him a warning or sue him at Hope Kolundzhija so that he could take some rigorous action. He made one statement yesterday... (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) I just want to remind you, don't thank me, I know you're forgetting quickly. It's hard to remember, and you forget it quickly, I know it. He made a statement that the Serbian Radical Party is a criminal organisation. He didn't deny that the journalist had cheated on him, he didn't apologize, he was walking around here. Keep an eye on, in the future, when a similar statement is made over television, in some newspapers, then tomorrow at the National Assembly session, you will suffer the use of the same words at the expense of that democratic bloc party from which he made a statement on the previous day. It's probably an example of mutuality, equality, and being all the same, not of anyone promoting themselves through these spy media and being able to do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9538	Mr. Krassic, thank you. It didn't happen during my presidency. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure, followed by the replica, the People's Messenger Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. I will return a little bit to Article 1 and to the amendment and addition of the Insurance Act, where you have also made it possible for a particular organisational work to deal with this activity, you call it a branch; means, a branch of a foreign insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity. First, the term "grand" is unknown in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is simply surprising that such a proposal can go through all legal services both in the Ministry of Finance and in the Government, as well as in the professional services of the Assembly. "The Section" as a term does not exist in our legal practice. What does he represent? Why are we allowing a branch, why are we registering it, and what can he do? Here, someone before me said that some insurance company has a total of a dozen employees. That'll be our practice. The branch will probably have two or three employees. We've cleared all the branches we've allowed to work from the insurance market. In the period when we, like, entered into the insurance system reform, we drove 22 houses dealing with insurance affairs, 128 agencies and representations that were given the authority of the competent authority to deal with insurance business. Now we'll let a foreign person, called a branch, do those insurance jobs. This is how we break the Constitution. We have denied our citizens the constitutional right to work, we have taken away their work permits, their businesses or societies, we have driven them into liquidation, and we will allow foreign persons to be able to fine-tuning and take commissions here, and make good, and make good profits on the basis of insurance jobs. I think it's a crime that works for the current government, which is only a trace of those activities that we have in banking, privatisations, etc. All this stuff you're doing, I think it's a job that... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9540	National MP Vladan Vukicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't belong to people who will tell anyone here when he comes out, as an MP -- he doesn't understand, he doesn't understand himself either. But, well, I will accept that some MPs, in accordance with their own style and manner, can afford to do so and in some ways I forgive Mr Krasic, whom I consider to be a general practitioner. He has the right to understand everything, and we have no right to say anything. I don't think that's right, but so be it. What is very important, Mr Krasic says - why we are not represented on the European Union market, and then he gave himself an answer - we are not in membership. People, that's why we're working so we can be represented on the European Union market tomorrow. That's why we're making these sets of laws, that's why we're doing all this. That's the ultimate goal, but that's what needs to be achieved. Dear MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, whom I highly appreciate because he is a good economics expert, etc., a serious MP, says - there is competition, says - insurance companies that employ a small number of people. That's right. You know, we had a car industry in Kragujevac that sort of employed 100,000 people, and it produced 200 grand the most, I think in 1989, cars. You have companies in the world that employ tens, twenty thousand people, and five times more vehicles. But it's because of technology, because of the modernisation of the process, because of the monitoring of modern trends in production. So competition is something that makes it possible. I think the ink pen was replaced with a pen long ago, and the pen is replaced by a computer, and the computer replaces people. So it's normal and it has nothing to do with competition. What we as MPs must not forget is competition with countries in the environment. We must not lose that race, lose the race with the countries in the environment and be run over by all the countries in the environment, create much better, quality conditions for the development of the economy, that the European Union gets around us, that we are on a desert island, a small country on which all the countries are going to point out -- this is how those who did not want to be an integral part of the European Union, who did not want to follow modern flows, so live people who continue to use ink pen and chemical pen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9542	Thank you, Mr. Vukevic. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and Jorgenka Tabaković, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't cause any more replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9543	Of course, Articles 101, 104. I'm talking about beautiful flowers, and Mr. Vukevic is talking about frogs. I'm telling you, Mr. Vucicevic, you haven't read the bill. The minister has problems after my intervention how to interpret what's written, and you don't see that they have problems, you still have a blind faith in what's written. Here's what Mr. Vukevic believes. When, Mr. Minister, you look at your explanation for Article 2, it's said... The epochal thing happens after the amendment of Article 15(4) and (5), your argument: "It is possible for the insurance company to make sure that the excess risk that cannot be covered by its own reosgura, both domestic and foreign resecuritisation companies. The application is related to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation," which is about a year, perhaps more, by good estimates of this government. Now I'd like to ask a question, what will happen in the meantime, will there be resecure? The minister is struggling with how to fit in and how to explain Article 25, Article 3 and Article 10. Mr. Vucevic had his story about the flag and gushed some story about the European Union. Why don't you ask the Minister where our insurance companies are and where they can work abroad, according to regulations that apply abroad. Don't defend anyone who doesn't defend himself. So do you forbid this man to say, "Hey, let him go, don't defend him anymore, he gets all the slaps." Woe to the one you're defending, you've confused the subject, the time, the space. Very often in the National Assembly, we have problems because someone was stuck on October 5th and the brain was not developing any further. You're still taking Milosevic out of power, and he's a dead man, do you understand that? You still think Milosevic is in power. You wanted to be the government with the story as an opposition, so where is it? Only in Serbia's DOS and nowhere else on the globe. This is about large, fundamental problems, which the government has to resolve in terms of this text, because if this is adopted as the Government has proposed, it's quite inapplicable and it's quite confusing and it doesn't solve any of the current problems of our insurance. It does not resolve any court proceedings conducted in the area of security, it does not resolve.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9544	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. Mr. Vukievich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9545	I hope you don't mind reporting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the story is about the subject. Do not distinguish employment from exploitation and do not distinguish the need for the ruling structure to ensure that people work with its economic policy moves, laws and liberalisation. I gave you the information that this year's employment relative to last year, according to the Ministry of Finance, is legal, 2.1 percent lower. Modernization is necessary, however, what has the competition brought? Did she bring a lower price? Did it bring a better quality of service or is it the only consequence, which is our most painful, lower employment? I want to ask you a basic question. Do you have a dilemma about whether a bank failed because of the unwitting work of a counterman or because of the miscalculation of interest in the loan service? Did that bank, any bank, anywhere in the world, fail because of one clerk, at whatever level it was, or because of the wrong credit and loan policy? Don't replace the thesis. The burden of government is large decisions, which mean behavior that ultimately has a better life or worse life. In this government, we warn her well-intentioned, it is a decision whether we will have greater employment and whether this work here will be able to live working here, or whether visas will be talked about or, as yesterday, will be part of the truth. We need to talk about visas, and you're not saying we should talk about reading. Mrs. Tanja Miscevic is very responsible for the fact that no one who could not get out of the country's borders before has the right now. They're getting journalists with a newspaper association book, but these people as private persons still have restrictions. But that's why over 150,000 people, according to her statement in the RTS Journal, who are not from this territory, will have to be at the concern of both the burden and the social ageing of this country. Don't talk half-way and bring up part of the truth. I never speak only of what is commendable and that goes in favor of the ideology of my party. I'm very serious about the data. In addition, when we talked about the European rink development bank's loan, I didn't get a chance to bring out the data, because I didn't have a final account with me. Please allow me 30 seconds just to finish. (President: All right. ) Credit from the institution, a loan from the Council of Europe Development Bank, which was used for the recovery of floods in the last year: a loan of 9 million and 600,000 euros (the final account is the source) was paid interest of 90,000 and 48 euros. The interest on this loan, according to this bill, is 9.38 percent. So the budget is in a year, there was no early payment of interest; in a year use of 9 million and 600 is paid 90 grand. The data speaks for itself, but let's be honest and let's be honest with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9546	The letter is written by Ambassador Vladan Vukicevic in the Rules of Procedure, and then by the People's Messenger of the Prophet Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone may allow himself to say... (President: Please, which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) 101. (President: Thank you. ) Someone may allow himself to say that someone had been ensnared on October 5th and had stopped there, but it was still a matter of taste and a matter of individual. I just want to say that I have rights, as a man who lives in this country, who knows how he lived in some previous period and how he lives today, who has a desire and expectations to be significantly better tomorrow than what was in the past, but what today, to make everyone feel better, especially for those we keep swearing for, and these are the younger ones who need to inherit our last name and inherit life in this country. As a man, I'm afraid of those moments, and I don't want to mention here either the party, or the individuals, when we got bonuses at home, so we got sugar, oil, flour, gasoline. So, of course, they gave us 20 liters of fuel, so they tell us those with even numbers can pick up 20 liters on the pump team and the team, and those with odd afterwards on someone else, etc. I'm afraid of it, and Serbia is afraid of it. Serbia is afraid of empty streets. He's afraid of the streets where the tank will pass and where the military truck will pass. We're afraid of an empty highway and of you crossing 300 kilometers of highways and not meeting any vehicles other than some military vehicle. That's what we're afraid of. We're afraid of that past, which we remember as bad. That's why we want one better Serbia, but this better Serbia means more normal communication with the world, respecting some values and respecting countries in the environment and being in some community, not constantly resisting fingers and saying that we are the most beautiful, the most valuable and the most capable, and that everyone else is no good.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9548	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9549	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the criminal activities of Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica continue... (President: Mrs. Radeta, we had a problem with that this morning. Please keep in mind how we express ourselves at the congregation speaker. Don't push it. Why are you doing this? ) Mr Albianic, I had no problem this morning, the family of Ratko Mladic has a problem due to the criminal and criminal activities of Tadic and Kostunica. Here's the thing. I asked, on the basis of Article 226, for you to know urgently, as chairman, of Minister Jocic what happened and why Darko Mladic, son of the famous, legendary General Ratko Mladic, was arrested. In two hours, you didn't find it appropriate to let us know what it was about. Of course, we found out without you. This address is, above all, for the public because we do not expect you to be able, either Jocic or Dulic, or Kostunica, or Tadic to do anything about it, because you will not do it; on the contrary, you want to intimidate the family, you want to intimidate all patriots in this country. What happened? This morning when they arrested Darka Mladic in the house there were three small children present, she was his wife. Meanwhile, about ten minutes ago, Darko Mladic was released from custody, came home and now doesn't know what to do, because his wife Biljani lost every lead. The woman went to work, she didn't get to work, she didn't come to work, her cell phone wasn't available, apparently, we assume, too, that Biljana Mladic was picked up, probably now they're expecting - not the son's betrayed father, perhaps the sister-in-law's sister-in-law will. We don't know what it is, but now I ask you most beautifully, this is something urgent, urgently you must contact the Serbian MUP, Mr Albianic, and inform the people's MPs, the public of Serbia, first of all, Mr Darka Mladic and his family, where Mrs Biljana Mladic, wife of Darka Mladic, is otherwise the son of the famous General Ratko Mladic. I repeat, when her husband was taken to Serbia's MUP this morning, I don't know what happened in the meantime, the woman went to work, she didn't get to work. That kind of behavior, Mr. Albianic, is not something I can call, but criminal, criminal and treasonous.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9550	National MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9551	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you, Mr President, because you are holding this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to also take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of the MPs should speak about what is on the agenda of the National Assembly. It seems to me, Mr. Albianic, that if we were to talk about the amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, then it would be good, I would pray that this be a lonely cry in the sea of votes of the Assembly, that MPs speak of it. Those who think it's good, let them affirm the good side and what it will do to Serbia, and let those who think ill say what they think bad about. Today, it seems to me, October 29th, 2007 and when I hear today when it comes to amendments and additions to the Insurance Act... (President: October 30th, 2007. )......................................................................................................... When it comes to the 1990s, it personally causes me a nausea. The question is, do people understand where they are and what period of history? I see people like to talk about the 1990s, and they say it incorrectly, but there are some MPs who will be happy to answer some questions. Let's go, Mr. Chairman, from the the thesis that nothing was good until 2000, so after 2000, with these democratic changes, for us, the coup, Serbia entered the world of life, where there is everything and everything, and honey and milk. So let's talk about that age, talk about life in Serbia after 2000, how great it is to live, how we have a national income of $18,000, how we have over 2,000 employees, how pensions are 800 euros on average, let's talk about these things and let's get us convinced that everything is great. So by 2000 nothing was good, then the parties with the democratic option came and created an ideal society. We don't have friends who ask us to take a piece of land, we don't have friends who push us into integration to settle some of our global accounts and interests, and everything is great; privatisation was fantastic, for 2,000 companies we took 15 billion euros, not just two for 2,000 of our best companies and that we charged war damage, but come on, let's move, talk about the laws that were passed after 2000, that they were super laws. What difference does it make to sugar from the 1990s with the Insurance Act, only individuals can conclude that. And not to mention that absolutely events from the 1990s are interpreted unilaterally, not to mention "great friends" who imposed sanctions, Western countries and the United States that imposed sanctions, which helped the exodus of Serbs from Croatia, over 250,000 people were expelled, the greatest ethnic cleansing since World War II, which bombed the Republika Srpska, which bombed Serbia-Montenegro against the Security Council's decision. What do you want? Come on, then talk about these things, when you talk about the '90s. (Chairman: Mr. Radovic, please... And I would ask you, Mr. Albianic, to conduct a session of the National Assembly as appropriate. If you can't do that, please invite one of the vice presidents who are here today, or Mr. Dulic, to take the lead session or to apply the Rules of Procedure. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9552	Thank you, Mr. Beard. I just applied the Rules of Procedure. You spoke for four minutes. Thank you. National MP Milorad Buha, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, then MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on Defence and Security, which was held a few days ago, I asked a parliamentary question, and I did so also as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in persecution. Namely, day 18. Ten. In 2007, Pane Bulat, born in 1953, was arrested at one hour at a time with a permanent stay in Kukusina, Apatin Municipality. By 1991, he was a police officer in the Croatian Republic's MUP, then left the ministry, came to the Republika Srpska Krajina where he was until 1995. Afterwards, he worked as a police officer at Vrgin Most, escaped along with the rest of the Krajisniks in 1995, and was continuously settled in Kukusina. The Serbian Republic's MUP has arrested the man concerned based on certain crimes or I don't know what. I asked the board to deliver it to me, and to the government and to me, the information about what he was arrested for, why it's done at night, why it's done at one hour at night? The entire family and the entire village were traumatized, and the municipality of Apatin, when they found out what had been done. I use this pay phone and ask the Ministry again – why are people arrested, on what basis is he arrested and why is it done in the night?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9554	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic reported. He's giving up. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic reported. I ask Mr. Zoran Krasic not to interfere with the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9555	Mr. Moron, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, let me just say, you're not shooting at an empty network. This team called the SPS has a good goalie. You can't do that, every time you run out of inspiration, and then you turn away. For 12 years, the party of Mr. Dr. Vucicevic has exercised power in Cačka and has been the government in Serbia for seven years. How many years does it take them to be the government to identify themselves as responsible for Serbia's situation? Since 1996 they've been in Chačka in power. In the meantime, though, one family had made a lot of progress there, just one. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Are they Ilici? Yes, that's the family. A lot of good and honest people, though in the village where they were born, don't apply. Enough with that. Who's to blame for today's "14 October" workers looking for amendments and additions to the Labour Act, Article 191, to the employer who gives the worker a notice, so he gets it in court, he shouldn't get it back to work? I remind you, this amendment was signed here by the Socialist Party of Serbia, so it was not accepted by the party that imputed us here. Who's to blame that the representatives of the Belgrade Slave Houses can't even attend the privatisation of the property they've been building for 50 years? Who's to blame that the workers of Magnochroma come to us and say that the new owner of India cuts equipment and sells on a kilogram to his company that deals with secondary raw materials, three times cheaper than the price of secondary raw materials in Serbia, and does not meet the privatisation contract? Who's to blame that 511m euros can't get those people who were in German captivity, and they seem to have arrived in our country? Who's to blame for shooting party in Serbia, like in Požega last night, and no one is to be arrested? I would ask Mr. Vladan Vukicevic if he raised his voice in 1991 and 1992, as a doctor and humanist, when representatives of international organisations, who are his friends, said he could not fly a plane from Belgrade to Banja Luka with oxygen bottles and when 12 babies died in the Banja Luka maternity hospital? Answer, Dr. Vukevic, if you have cheeks and strength.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9556	Replica, MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9557	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, surely I've raised my voice, Mr. Baralic. I have chosen an occupation that, in its own work, is a human profession. Mr. Baralic, I can tell you that I've been to the Maxilofational surgery specialization at those very times when everything and everything was happening in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. Let me tell you one thing, Mr. Baralic, the same crying Serbian mother as the Shiparian, the same tears diving, hurts everyone when it comes to his child. And I, as a man, want to protect everyone's child. I have to say something, if you've already wanted to ask such a question, there's something called politics, there are people who create that policy, and there are people who need to know that in a pub and in the street they can say anything about everyone, it's their personal thing, but this speaker is a pay phone that only serious things that nobody can be offended with, that nobody can be humiliated with. As a representative of Serbia, you must respect everything. I don't want to warm up the passions here now, I don't want to, but there were a lot of irresponsible people, a lot of irresponsible sentences sent from this pay phone to world powers. We need to know and measure these forces and we need to know that man is human, so maybe because of those irresponsible sentences sent from this official place, we've paid an expensive price. Anyway, they all... Just like we who run this country today, we're responsible for everything that's going on right now. We can't erase our past, whatever it was, but that's why we have to work together, knowing what our past was like, to make our future better. We have to change, Mr. Baralic, and as a man, I've always raised my voice. Believe me, I feel for the sufferings of all those people who have suffered a tragedy in these places, but I'm afraid many have forgotten that people have suffered a tragedy, that many have become disabled, and yet this can be linked to a policy that has been conducted. We had during some of these times these people who fought for this country, who were protesting and seeking, in the period when it happened, to allow them the most ordinary things that a disabled person would have to have, and these are decent, elementary conditions for life. Again, it was justified by sanctions, war and inability. That's what we as humans have to understand together and correct in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9558	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Gristle, there's something I must ask of you. I suppose you won't make such a mistake, but if it happens, there's Mrs. Vervain Radeta, as your advisor to the Rules of Procedure, she'll help you. Namely, what's this about? Mr. Albianic made a cocktail of the SRS MPs when they explained the amendments. It is unacceptable, as part of our parliamentary time, for some other MPs to appear here. I don't rule out a possibility after that. We saw the situation we had when Mr. Vukevic called. I do not dispute his announcement about the Rules of Procedure, about the replicas, but when he answered to talk about the amendment, he spoke, Mr. Obradovic, not about the 1990s, 80s and some years, he talked about what had nothing to do with the amendments, and he reported and talked about the amendment, or any political party sitting here today. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 and to Article 35. Insurance laws. My amendment also says that this newly proposed member is deleted, but I do not mind defending him with the same ferocity as my colleague Aleksandar Martinovic will do, when he defends his amendment to Article 20, which he says and projects, on behalf of the SRS, that the most property, i.e. capital from insurance companies, is 49%, so that the state of Serbia remains the majority owner. Before I begin to specifically explain my amendment, just to clarify that sometimes the amendment can be comprehensive, good and very effective if it says: delete. So, with two words, not one. If you try to regulate some of the relationships that rule on the street, imagine when you say -- if Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica, or if someone else walks along the street and comes across a Serbian citizen, someone will put a hand like this, someone will cross the other side of the street, and you will say that it will be punished, that I do not predict what sanctions it might be, what remains of the SRS MPs and anyone who thinks it is wrong, but to say, it will be deleted. He can't change that, so he says, he won't be punished for fines, but he'll be punished for jail time. So sometimes the amendments have to read exclusively - will be deleted. Yesterday, a dilemma was put in place, and it appears that MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia, MPs of the Democratic Party of Silence, are not defending the law, which, I say, is no good. The question has been asked whether we're comfortable with the previous or these changes right now. Neither does the previous one, because we had a number of amendments on it, and at that time Mr Igor Mirovic, as it does today, is very successful, virtually, I would say, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, presented and explained the amendments we have submitted. Mr Tishma, when the Health Insurance Act was on the agenda here, the SRS MPs submitted a very large number of amendments. It was Saturdays and Sundays. Mr. Srjo was here and made a very important contribution to trying to amend that law. You know who the Minister of Health was then? He who is today, and he who seems to me, since 2000, will be until the SRS comes to power, which we hope is in the next election. You guys are going out here yesterday and you're saying you did a terrible job. Well, Vladan Vukevic also succeeds by going to the Minister of Capital Investments at the time, and now for infrastructure, and otherwise, that's your way of doing it, and saying, "Give me this and that, and don't ask the ministers once, don't ask the Government to propose to us those laws that we and the other citizens of Serbia who have shown us trust would benefit. Yesterday someone comes out here and says, "I guess they're trying to make the citizens of Serbia cry, but they can't do it anymore, they can't do it worse, you've done it successfully," so if we talk a little bit more about the Rules of Procedure, and the amendments of the SRS have already been acceptable, we'll have some deadline, we won't have any visa reliefs. Every one of you who doesn't live in Belgrade when he comes to meetings of the National Assembly will see a large number of people, quite decently dressed, who tear through containers because they have nothing to eat, have nothing to live on. Do you think what you said yesterday, let's hurry up, adopt it, it's necessary, we need both young and old and all those who have conditions to travel abroad... Many earlier years have gone away, so now our citizens have family ties with people abroad and they need to go to them, many will leave, but let's do something else first, to create some other conditions so they can do it a little bit. Why does the SRS insist that we shed light on these amendments, make one critical reference, from a professional point of view? Because what you suggested isn't good. And we have reason and we've been taught the experience since 2001, when, on behalf of DOS, the self-proclaimed governor of the National Bank shut down four banks, they disappeared. It's not the name of the South Bank, it's the Belgrade Bank that matters to us, although you know how much these companies themselves pay in the world today, but what about the assets, what about the people who worked in those banks, what about... I don't know what they are, but I'm sure and I'm sure there have been savings in the roles of Serbian citizens in these banks, has anyone managed to raise their own amount? It's not. We didn't get an answer to that question seven years later. We fear that the same or similar fates are not experienced by insurance companies, and as you have predicted in this law and the attitude you have towards the amendments of the SRS, that is almost certain. It may be too late later, no matter what power it is, and you assume so do the citizens of Serbia who will be, so that certain consequences you have done will not be able to correct us either. That's why today we have to fight so hard for our amendments and explain them, that we don't get into a situation like it did with the banks. Look what the minister said. He says -- and they're slowly losing their significance. I mean those 15 insurance companies, not counting DDOR and Danube insurance companies. They're losing weight in our field, and our goal is to stabilize these two entities to achieve the best price in privatisation. And then I said -- so don't we have enough professional people, good management who can run that part of the job and aren't the citizens of Serbia interested that part, that premium stays here and not go abroad? It is certainly our wish today to have secure insurance companies, or what we have secured; in case, nobody, I suppose, normally wants to do some damage that we can collect. But there is no such money, there is no price, what was said by distinguished colleague Jorvanka Tabakovic, that, when employed in these insurance companies, one of the conditions, in addition to the professional arrangement, now not to bid what is stated, is that a young mother, a Serbian or a Serbian citizen, is not allowed to give birth for four years. There is no money that Serbia's youth can or should at least try to buy. All amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, regardless of whether they have anything in their text other than -- is deleted, should be accepted, then we will surely have a better solution. If anyone dares not accept such an amendment that I have submitted, then he wants to make it acceptable in this country what is unacceptable, and that is abuse. And let me tell you, the amendment applies to Article 5 and to Article 35 of the existing law. The member defines: "The National Bank of Serbia will reject a request for consent to obtain qualified participation, if from documentation and data available to produce... ". There are five points here, and I have submitted the amendment to point 3. In order to make it more clear to you, point 3) is that the applicant has been a member of the Management Board, the Supervisory Board or the holder of special powers in the legal entity over which the procedure has been carried out. "In the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, it is proposed that this "implemented procedure" be deleted without adding "open or implemented coercion procedure". So this "open" leaves the possibility of a variety of abuses. You see, we have received a very interesting response from the Government to this amendment, it says: "The amendment is not accepted because the proposed provision reduces the possibility of abuse by covering periods since the opening of these proceedings (including those pending), but by reducing the possibility of abuse only to forced, not to voluntary liquidation. "There is no evidence in the proposed amendments and additions to the Insurance Act of what it refers to, but in an explanation, so that if there were no such amendment there would be no such explanation, they would not simply point to certain things and procedures that exist. I have to leave a few minutes for my colleague, Jorgovanki Tabakovic, but I remind you, if you do not vote for this amendment, that you are for the introduction of a category that has already become detached and very acceptable; this is the category that DOS has launched and nurtured in any form since 2000, which is the introduction of procedures, i.e. ways of doing business that do not benefit the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9560	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. You've got three and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9561	Mr. Sreta Peric's amendment, my colleague, is in fact very current today, especially because of the article in the paper where you get, as the ruling coalition, all praise for the credit in bankruptcy proceedings. Who praises you? The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the one you take loans from and the ones that funded you to pass such bankruptcy regulations. What's important here in Article 35? If you don't like a person, if you don't like a company or an authorised person, so you don't want to gain qualified participation in this area of business called insurance, there wasn't enough solution from the old law to carry out an emergency liquidation procedure, or bankruptcy, but you just opened the possibility of bankruptcy opening up. I respect your argument that there can be no abuse of voluntary liquidation, there is that. You want me to give you the freshest example? You allowed privatisation in one factory, in a textile confectional industry in Babusnica, where you got a highly qualified German owner, who, without any explanation after four months of working, sent people to the employment office, packed up machines and said that he was not rentable to work. There are 260 people left without a job. It's not classified information, it's very official. No guarantee that the foreign owner will come and maintain production you do not have in the Privatisation Act, but by order of those who praise you, you have led to the creation in our society of a caste of bankruptcy managers who expect enormous rewards for bankruptcy, i.e. leaving people without a job. You are still in this very important area of the financial market, the future, and very interesting for this economy, its stability and its sustainability, which is called insurance, introducing the possibility that someone under the law of bankruptcy will file a bankruptcy claim and open it, as the law says, by making it very likely that someone cannot settle one of the most ordinary invoices in debt-confidential relations. Amount - 10,000 euros. Is there a company today called a successful company that currently doesn't owe someone that amount? But you can, if you want to exclude someone from this area, to open up the bankruptcy law and what you're opening up here, give this formulation -- open the bankruptcy procedure, which makes it (where is it now liberalization, openness, competition? You limit certain people's entry into the area of security. This is not by any chance, such as no chance or way of licensing, as it is not accidentally reserved discretionary right to assess whether a new insurance house should be opened. Fellow MPs, take your word for it, so reject this amendment if you can explain it to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9562	By amendment, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9563	Mr. Obradovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment to Article 5 is under discussion. (in basic law Article 35) amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, so that we know what we're talking about. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support the amendment submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs in a voting day. I want to say one thing here regarding this amendment and principle. I simply ask my colleagues, respecting all their needs, political and other, not to flaunt with the MPs when they submit amendments. This may not be nice to someone, but I assure you that one political party under the Rules of Procedure has all the rights regarding the method of political and parliamentary struggle. When someone decides to write a hundred amendments on the table of one law to delete it, he has some reason to do so. I remind you, the Democratic Party is in one moment in '92. The year submitted 4,500 amendments to one draft law, on local self-government, I thank Miss Jovanovic. So, I just ask everyone to really behave whenever they're in power like when they were in opposition. Leave it to the MPs of one party, one political option, one parliamentary group to assess what their political and programme interest is. Maybe that's how they want to draw attention to the law that's in one way or another from their point of view. In that sense, a non-discipline debate was held yesterday. Therefore, nothing can be disputed that has been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's one question we've discussed a hundred times, discussed and asked you to close it down. When it seems to us, to us and to others, that's interesting to us, we'll write 150 amendments. Let us assess, we take our chances in front of our target group. It is our job to gain the trust of the new and maintain the trust of the existing target group and not risk it with your voters. It's just something that's an alpha and an omega of political action. So in this sense, we don't have to waste any more time on whether or not someone wrote ten amendments to delete it, it's simply a matter of their political decision. I would also like to ask, since this amendment and this amendment are concerned, we will insist on this initiative to inform the citizens of Serbia about the extent to which the agency for bankruptcy managers and others is receiving, as the Energy Agency held yesterday, not to inform us what the appointments and salaries of directors are there. They'll have to. I'm telling them now they're gonna have to. The Management Board has made a precise request, so it will be seen to be several hundred thousand per man, etc. So one relationship continues with the MPs by the administration that is inadmissible. Today I read in the paper that, for God's sake, MPs will get a laptop or a portable computer. What are we talking about? First I don't know anything about it, and if it's someone's decision, I say hello, it was very important to have them five years ago. I'd like to inform you that several thousand portable computers are now being used on regents by government officials, which is good. Why is it not good if MPs need to get a laptop? What's this about? Is that a theme? Is the theme that our children will, for God's sake, play with those computers when we take them home? No, we'll sell them on a flea market, as soon as we get them, we'll sell them at half the price on a flea market to make a lot of money. So, in this country, everything about Members of the People's Affairs is in a completely unacceptable way. I thank those who made that decision, if we're really going to get those computers. What I'm saying is that every day we get as much paper here as it takes, it takes an entire forest to cut to make as much paper as we get a day here, to help each other in any other way, etc. It is very important that we help to understand that there is one hack of MPs here, who, as could be read, have, for several years, the source of all evils in the Republic of Serbia, made a fantastic profit. As soon as we got the first reports, we saw that all the bankruptcy directors and all the members of the boards of directors on the railways, and I don't know where they all still have a few times bigger synacuras. What's this about? Yesterday I found that, for example, an important man who did an important job as the State Auditing Institution has a slightly higher salary than the MPs. I don't mind that, but I have to say, I do have a problem with a member of the board of directors at the public shelter getting paid as much as the one who's supposed to be at the head of the State Auditing Institution. Do they exist in this land of the ark? Can you measure what it's worth? Yesterday, we asked the National Bank to provide precise reports on how much the governor, Vice-Governors, Council members, and how much salary there is for a man who has the lowest job, the lowest in the hierarchy, and whether or not I know what, so, distinguished colleagues, you will see that a hygienist in the National Bank has a higher salary than a man with high professional training who is not a high-ranker in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and has a college. How is it possible in one country that it works like that? We expect, based on the information we give the citizens of Serbia, that citizens have a clear picture of what is happening here. So we won't agree to be a public spithouse every day in all the media. We'll do whatever it takes to explain that several thousand board members in this country are making enormous wealth, we don't know what their responsibility is, and we don't know what their obligation is. We don't care about private companies, we don't care about those who make their own money. We are very interested in those founded by the Government, who are founded by the National Assembly, who are funded from the budget, which are in public enterprises. It is not normal for a member of the management board in the Post Office of Serbia to have 140,000 dinars without having any responsibility. If a minister's brother, it's particularly interesting to me. We're going to give it a succesively as the data comes in, we're not going to agree to a torture that's going through us, and that's being conducted by certain lobbys, which show us in that light. So I'm telling them in public -- wow, we're not going to let them have that kind of picture of MPs and parliament going through Serbia, because these other people are doing everything they can to cover things up, that is, the amount of money they earn from board members and supervisory boards and directors of public enterprises. I can't wait for all of them to come, you'll see, you'll be amazed. There are people who have a million dinars each month and incasate on their own continent, and they have no obligation and no responsibility. We're going to ask that thing to go all the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9564	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9565	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 103. I would like to point out that it is an obligation for MPs to discuss the subject on the agenda. I also want to express my agreement with the part of my predecessor's exposure that he spoke about that there are really some centres of power that are trying to undermine the status and positions of state institutions, in order to diminish their importance, so in that sense the National Assembly is very often, together with MPs, shown in a negative context, at times when MPs did not deserve it. I would like to say this: it is true that an article has come out that MPs should get a laptop or a portable computer, but it is also true that there is agreement among MPs to pay off their salaries for those laptops so that the next generation of MPs can wait for the amount in the budget on which they could buy for the next generation of computers. I think that is correct to say to the public, that it would not be misunderstood that MPs are boastful and that they only want to benefit from the Assembly or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I also believe that we should commend the SRS parliamentary group that is talking about issues and amendments today; that is, the way this Parliament respects the electoral will of Serbian citizens, to represent citizens' interests in the right way and in the Rules of Procedure, as the position and role of MPs are defined. I cannot agree with Mr Baralic when he made a partnership between the conduct of the Serbian parliament these days, with an enormous number of amendments that are not celery and which draw one general socio-economic and political system backwards or make it impossible to advance and improve our legal and economic system. You gave a partnership with the Democratic Party's behaviour, which before 2000 submitted a number of amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. I must tell you that the opposition's behaviour must be valued according to the character of the country's government. When power is democratic, then the opposition has the right to only fight with democratic and non-violent means for its future position. If the character of the government is such that it is a regime, where human rights are violated, fundamental rights, then instruments that the opposition is struggling to establish democratic values and raise democratic standards are justified. So I ask you all together to do everything possible to make this assembly work on the basis of democratic principles, according to the interests of the citizens, and respecting all the MPs representing the citizens in this way we respect the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9566	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MPs Rajko Baralic and Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9567	Mr. Obradovic, this member of the wrong interpretation, etc. So, Mr. Ristic, I would like all MPs to have the same source of information and to be informed. The SPS parliamentary group has no information, nor has such a decision been taken by the Administrative Board, which is relevant, could be proportionate, that the purchase of laptop computers will be realised in this way. I don't mind. The only thing I don't mind is if somewhere in the paper they find out how the MPs on the interest-free loan got computers. I won't let myself, and others will plead. So no one's gonna loan me without me knowing anything about it. That's the first thing. On the other hand, who gave "Blic" and other media that information, by the way, to ask the Secretary of the Assembly, how did such a decision occur, and how was the decision told to the media, without any knowledge of it by one parliamentary group? For me, it is not unknown, therefore, that I do not know such a way of working, but only ask that MPs not be divided into the MPs of power and opposition here by the Rules of Procedure, because every MP, in accordance with Article 225 and some others, has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of his parliamentary function. So there are no elected MPs, no privileged parliamentary groups. We expect the answer, and when we get the right decision, we will make it clear. So I'm not poor. This country paid me well so I can buy myself a computer and I guess every serious person here uses a computer, because I don't know how it works otherwise. That's why I don't want to be put into a new context by anyone in a way that's going to become the target of a journalist again, that someone's lending us unambiguously, that we're buying computers that are 30, 40, and 50,000 dinars. Please, it can be one trap, and I don't want to be a part of it, and my kid is big, he's not playing with a computer. The paper says as soon as I get that computer, I'll use it to play at home. That's rude. They don't know anything about our families and they don't know anything about our children and they don't know anything about how we operate. I invite them to come and watch what we've been doing for 15 days, to come wherever they want, to be about my expense, but to stop writing nonsense about what we're supposed to do. So that's not fair, because it's just not true. I thank you and I'm looking for these answers so we can do it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9568	I will ask the president of the National Assembly to in the afternoon part of the session give the correct information, and what I know, I think it will confirm Mr. Obradovic... Mr. Baralic, I'm speaking to you, since you asked directly, so just so you can hear. So, at a meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Dulic, presented the idea that MPs would receive computers, so that without any details, the heads of Parliament's groups were informed of this information. I will ask the President of the National Assembly for details from the daily press in the afternoon of the debate, when he is here. So it'll be passed on to him. Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9569	Mr President, I would like to say something to my colleague, Mr Ristic, as well as to the other colleagues, as one who witnessed the events of the 1990s, when these famous two thousand and some amendments were the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, at the time I was Deputy Minister for Local Self-Government, so I was in a situation, like maybe some other colleagues who came with the minister, that I could help the minister at the time to give an appropriate, relevant answer to what the MPs then asked as a question. Otherwise, the democratic character of a political system does not determine one or two issues, but there are far more. When you're talking about the '90s and you say the regime, I'm thinking the same thing today about this regime after 2000, except it's in a much more sophisticated form. You know everything, and nothing's clear. We've got thieves, and no one's been punished. We've got super privatization, and the workers run out of rights. Everything is transparent, and the tycoons take money away from the side. You could talk about that. When it comes to these amendments, and I'm saying this because of the other colleagues who are honored to give amendments that are not adequate, there were dozens and dozens, hundreds of amendments that were with two words -- deleted. Hundreds and hundreds, believe it or not. There were talk of local self-government and there were a dozen amendments with a sentence – the president of the municipality is the sheriff, period. Sheriff's dot; Sheriff's dot. You can judge for yourself how meaningful these amendments were. Or the amendment type – after the word and the point is placed and the rest is deleted etc. The interesting thing about that session was that the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who defended those amendments were going out for a pay phone, and they were standing behind this pay phone all the time, someone was talking about the amendment, someone wasn't, and the largest number was talking about things that had nothing to do with, and I use this no offense, to say the simplest words, they had nothing to do with the amendment. It was part of the policy of one parliamentary group or the entire opposition. It was part of a political life back then. I'm saying this not to minimize it, not to qualify that time, but just to show that it has its methods of fighting at all times. If at one time it is declared valid, possible, then it is not necessary to honor colleagues who do so at another time. Everyone has their own method of political struggle. If he respects the laws of this country, if he respects the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and has anything to say from the point of view of the political option chosen by him to be an MP, a representative of the citizens in parliament, forgive me, the citizens themselves will assess what anyone is saying, how he talks and whether or not he will give him confidence in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9570	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9571	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there are great differences between the members of the government, namely between the authorities and the SRS when it comes to the area of insurance. Obviously, these amendments and additions to the Insurance Act aim to strengthen the control of the National Bank over the insurance sector and, above all, Governor Radovan Jelasic, on the one hand, as well as to prepare for privatisation, which was clearly decided by the authorities. That's what's from the position of the SRS inadmissible. You will also have the opportunity to see through the other amendments that the request for the SRS to remain the majority owner of insurance companies, i.e. primarily in the Danube, because we believe that this is extremely important in the next period when we will be in a situation where we have less and less investment in Serbia. Unfortunately, the privatisation process ends, what has been sold has been sold. A good part of the investments that entered Serbia went right through the privatisation process, those real investments are very little. The security area, first of all, involves savings, a kind of savings. Life insurance, voluntary retirement insurance should allow for the accumulation that is present with Serbian citizens, meaning the savings, channeled into development, above all, of the financial market, and a significant impact on the development of the economy during a future period. Given the very difficult and unstable political situation, we should take the insurance sector seriously, as in the coming period it could greatly improve capital, investment in our economy and in our businesses. As for what we expected to see in this text of the law, which is not, unfortunately, just that it shows that the government has no serious intention of dealing with the development of this sector, the insurance sector, and that it intends to treat insurance as it did in 2005 to banks, to sell them out as quickly as possible, uncritically, regardless of what these domestic banks could offer to Serbia's economy during that period and regardless of how we did not preserve national banking. It is obvious that there is no will to preserve even national security today. I must say, first of all, we should have found tax relief in the bill, which would have accelerated the development of the insurance sector, the reliefs relating to the incomes and incomes of citizens. There should be no double taxation in this area; this law should regulate a much more serious risk management regulation, and that, unfortunately, we do not, and the safety of roles, the security of premiums should be at a much more high-quality level than it is today. What is of paramount importance to us is that much more attention is paid to the insurance sector in the coming period, because this market is underdeveloped, but the premiums are growing from year to year and the potentials of this market are extremely high. When it comes to some indicators, in 2006, we had a premium, according to data available to me at 452m euros, in 2007, about 500m euros were expected, and in 2008, as many as 584. It's a growth of about 10-15%, which suggests that selling and privatizing insurance houses at this point means one bad move, economically totally unwarranted. Through the development of the economy, through the growth of standards, through the increase of social wealth, we will have the right opportunity to see in the right way the possibilities and potentials of this market and, through privatisation, eventually, to come to the right market price in some future period. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, it concerns an application for an authorisation to carry out insurance operations. The second position through 12 points is regulated which requires documentation and, in particular, points 8) and 10) are amended, where the possibility is once again given to prevent employment if the bankruptcy, liquidation procedure is opened within three years. Obviously, given the experience we had with the National Bank and those suitcases and the intransparency in the process of privatization of banks, we cannot trust the management of the National Bank, this opens up a space for further manipulation and disabling certain people from insurance. Staff training in the insurance sector itself is not at a satisfactory level so that we can easily go over such a legal solution. So I propose to the MPs and the authorities, of course, that the MPs of the SRS will certainly support this amendment, to reconsider once again the whole concept of this law, which at this moment means premature privatisation, and to support all amendments, and of course my amendment to the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9572	By amendment, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9573	fellow Members of the Parliament, the key thing has been said about the adoption of this law in the presentation of my colleague, who spoke about the amendment submitted and concerning the privatisation of insurance companies at the time of the historic, legal, imminent development of life insurance. Dear citizens of Serbia, don't let them cheat on you that strategic partners or foreign customers will raise our level of life insurance. So what's called a kind of savings, investment in your future through life insurance that will be the result of increased wages, if we have them, and our willingness to invest in life insurance past survival is simply a legitimate process, like the one that concerned social security and health insurance. No one has any dilemmas about that anymore. Close to you, dear theorists, for example, Mr. John Galbrate, acknowledges an economist from America, says – no political party can take credit for the development of social security. While America (and you paint on Serbia's situation) was a agricultural society and while each future generation for the previous one took care of it, there was no need for the development of social security. If there was a need to provide additional resources, it was easy to provide for the sale of the land or the workshop they owned and it was possible to bring their life to an end in decent conditions. So it's not due to any political party needing the state to develop social security. It's a historic process. Health insurance isn't anybody's fault either. At a time when medicine, especially surgery, had progressed to the point that the multiple times to death had not been easy, fast and natural inevitability, the state had to develop a health insurance system. In one such inevitability, we are today in the matter of life insurance. So investment in life insurance as security of your safe age and re-routing assets from non-life insurance, property insurance and persons is something that will happen, regardless of whether they come here to make high profits from safe payment of inheritance premiums, use and invest where they fit the party, and it's much better to be this country. So we insist on the strategic importance of insurance, and if we miss the chance to keep the banks, the banks that are actually the flow of the economy, we must not miss the chance to keep the insurance, which will be developed by the historical process, under our control, but not because of the personal benefit but because of the development of this society. In addition to that, I'll only give you one piece of information. From a slight difference compared to the first competitor three years ago, the Danube today records a difference of around 25m euros in gross premiums. The DDOR is the first competitor, who has a mixed structure and below 49% has the participation of states. "Dunav" is with a lot of investment... And I remind you that "Dunav" is completely irrelevant to who is at his head and which party is the government, because the SRS is above party interests in these general important things, so this and such "Dunav" managed to buy shares from the Israeli TBI society and become the owner of the first pension fund. 30% of the broker's shares were purchased, 30% of the Kosig insurance stock in Banja Luka, making Dunav the majority owner of the largest insurance house in Republika Srpska. The Danube Insurance also holds 72% of Serbia's resecuritisation market. Will the state decide that what will be developed based on our salaries and our opportunities to invest in life insurance leave to someone, if you have the exact information that by 30% more than the total premium in the money in 2003 "Dunav" increased by only the first three months? Do you realize what is the possibility that the state, with one responsible authority, will invest in all that is necessary for development? Please remember that at the moment you decide on amendments to the SRS you will have in mind whose children you will provide a better future. With all due respect to those coming from the European Union, with all due respect to the Slovenian economy, the German economy and any other, the SRS advocates, I hope you, too, for the future of our children and the Serbian economy, and show it the day you vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9574	Natasa Jovanovic, then Goran Davidovic. You have two minutes left for the parliamentary group by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9575	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in all the polls conducted among Serbian citizens when people ask what they are most dissatisfied with, begin with the level of local government... You know that I come from Kragujevac, so they are diagnosed there, as doctors would say, problems in seven areas, which the current mayor of Kragujevac cannot solve. The same is true when they question citizens, as far as the work of the Republic Government is concerned, what is the most disturbing to them. Of course, crime, corruption, tycoonization, but also the inability for young people to work and get jobs. How far did the Serb tycoons go who put their paws on leading insurance companies and brought to the big door all these insurance companies with passages to the previous and current authorities from abroad, and how quickly they made our insurance houses less familiar to you and how they worked and employed people, speak, and again I will repeat, the case of the insurance company "Prizma" from Topola. You can say that in a small environment such as this, there is a need for people to work and that you know or you don't know how many people don't work there, how qualified they are, with higher, higher education, how many people were not directly but indirectly involved in various other jobs that were intermediated or serviced for the company, and then really raises the question, and this is indeed a crime of unprecedented proportions, and I will use the opportunity to set up, how many days before, with complete documentation and a parliamentary question related to such a decision by Jelasic and Dinkic – how can you tell us that this law will advance business in the insurance sector and shut down a Serbian insurance company? You offer the citizens a cat in a bag and you force them to provide themselves with life insurance and to pay it high in these, least said, suspicious companies from the West. You could be told by colleagues who are lawyers, closely specialised in the area; this is what Mr. Ristic knows, in the area of law enforcement, for those who specialize in the job, as well as other colleagues who have been lawyers in the profession, have become a lucrative business. Unfortunately, because people are forced to conduct proceedings against these foreign insurance companies because they have been deceived. I'm telling you again, this will be the story of a member of the 7th Radeta colleague, on this matter of your intention not to give a year's chance to the one who was withdrawn from the permit, as the case of the mentioned "Prize" from Topola has just been mentioned, to request that he resume the same action... How are you going to ensure that citizens, when these entities, businesses, like that mentioned firm or someone else I don't know about, who are such a narrow area or have a clientele that's tied to an administrative district, and you don't know these companies, when you don't guarantee citizens, but they have to ask for the help of lawyers, because they're being cheated, and these frauds are getting more and more. Therefore, don't, and the minister doesn't convince us, he may try at the end of this debate, and I see that fellow workers who support the amendments and additions of this law to tell us the colourful lies and how well it is, when you see on these current examples that insurance houses in Serbia had to stop working, because they were personally placed by Jelasic and Dinkic in the past term. Many young people, some mothers who have supported children or some fathers, have lost their jobs because it is simply your will, or will, and because you do not listen to what we say and do not accept any of our arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9576	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. By amendment, MP Goran Davidovic. Here you go, Goran.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9577	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak specifically of this amendment. In Article 6. The draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act is proposed to replace the words "open or implemented emergency procedure" in Article 39 paragraph 8) (1). Why is a member like this proposed with these changes and additions? Because this provision reduces the possibility of abuse of the scope of the period since the opening of this procedure, including those pending, on the one hand, but by the fact that this restriction applies only to forced but not to voluntary liquidation. In the process of voluntary liquidation, there is no reason for this restriction to be applied, for at least two reasons. First, because the procedure is conducted by shareholders themselves when it comes to liquidation. The second reason, concerning the consent of the National Bank of Serbia, of course, is that on the basis of their decision to liquidate society, they can do so on that basis. The restriction shall only be provided for societies in this regard, which have been withdrawn from the work permit and where the so-called forced liquidation is carried out. Thus, this Article 6 of this Act in Article 39, in this way and through this amendment, which we have proposed provides for a restriction relating to the participation of natural persons in insurance surveillance bodies, so that this restriction applies only to the mandatory, what I have already mentioned, but not to voluntary liquidation; on the other hand, as well as to the practical period since the opening of that procedure, of course until its completion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9578	I thank the MP Goran Davidovic. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9579	Dear colleagues, I've been seriously considering whether to go out and talk about this amendment, given the threat I had half an hour ago from a colleague who was sitting behind Mrs. Nadia Kolundzie. It's, you know, that creature that this criminal Democratic Party released yesterday and hasn't put him back in the cage yet. Mrs. Hope Kolundji heard what that colleague said to me and I expected her to react and I expected her to be a woman of integrity. In fact, he told me like this: that who they are, the Democratic Party, I guess... No, he says, "Who gives us a tooth for him, who eye for us, we head for him. I say – do you threaten me and he says – yes, because fear is the most dangerous thing, this is what Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic taught us. This is a quote I've heard from a colleague. Mrs. Kolundjia, did you hear that or not? All my colleagues heard it, just like this. But, well, I still have the courage, because I have to do the work of the MP and now I'm going to talk about the amendment to Article 7, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. The amendment proposed that Article 44 of the basic law delete Article 1(7) of the Article 44 on the refusal of an application to carry out insurance operations: "The National Bank of Serbia will refuse to grant a licence to carry out insurance operations, if," I suggested that it be deleted, "there is no justification for the establishment of an insurance company". When a debate was held yesterday mainly in the Rules of Procedure, but the DSS parliamentary group used it to talk about amendments, then it was said that the SRS MPs submitted amendments where it only writes - was deleted, deleted, and that there was no explanation and that it meant nothing. Here, I will do for those who do not know for which reasons they have failed to read, and they have commented, to read the explanation of this amendment: "It is acceptable that the person whose request has been rejected determines a minimum period of time for submitting a new request, but provided that there are exclusively objective criteria for obtaining a permit. "So, this is an explanation of the amendment and I would understand that someone says it is unacceptable, but to say that this amendment has no explanation or any other amendment of the SRS MPs, it is unacceptable. What is particularly interesting about this amendment is the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government allows itself much, here, has now begun to interpret the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly through these government opinions. Namely, the government says it does not accept this amendment for reasons that, in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the amendment is submitted as a proposal for amendments and addition to the draft law, i.e. to specific members in the draft law. By freely interpreting someone from the government it was estimated that this amendment for this very reason could not be accepted. That only adds to the fact that this is an excellent amendment and that the government did not have any excessive and professional explanation, which is why the amendment will not accept. Now I'm asking the President of Parliament... First of all, I claim and we claim that this amendment is legally possible. That's what the Legislative Committee said. True, Bosko Ristic said yesterday that it is not legally possible, so I did not understand whether he performed here on behalf of the government, on behalf of parliament or on behalf of Serbian citizens. Therefore, the amendment is legally possible and is possible, in accordance with Article 145. The Rules of Procedure, to respond to members who are not subject to amendments and additions to the Law, refer to the basic law to which they are amended and complemented by the Government as a proposal. If that is not the case, then it would be good for the President of Parliament to ask the service to extract information on how many times this amendment has been on the agenda and how many such amendments have been accepted and how many have become an integral part of the law. We claim that there are plenty of them and that there is no problem and no interference with such an amendment appearing in the procedure in front of parliament. Who gave the Government this opinion and the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know, I know nobody can do it except who brought the Rules of Procedure, it's this Parliament, but today in Serbia nothing is weird, all sorts of miracles happen, it's the least normal thing. I'm particularly interested in the minister's behavior. A man sits like a mummy, and he pays no attention to what anyone tells him, and he doesn't care what the MPs say here, so at least he comes out and says, "people, you're no good at the amendment for this reason, for that reason." No, he, in such a blessed state, is probably thinking about how his agency is doing business, how his Fox TV is doing, and what insurance company he and his crew are going to privatise under the most favourable conditions. Apparently, he's interested in his personal belongings, his friends from that criminal environment, and he's here to stay a little. He hasn't responded to any amendments once yet. We've had cases of the minister showing up at the pay phone, so give the MPs a political lesson, which is also illegal, but at least he says what he thinks. What this guy thinks, nobody lives knows. But the other day he showed up on one television, I don't know if it was his FOX TV, he was asked by journalists -- finance ministers, where will you provide 2.5m euros for someone who eventually shows up with information where Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Stojan Zupljanin and Goran Hadzic are? Then the minister smiled from ear to ear and said, "It's not a lot of money, we'll find that money easily." Ministers in absentia... You're his associate, so give him a question, tell him no minister, no one in this country can find money. We remind the minister that there is something called the Budget Law, which is adopted only every current year for the following year. In this budget law, every single dollar is foreseen, the budget is charged and where the funds are allocated and how the budget is spent. As far as I know, and I know, this year's budget isn't worth 2.5 million for traitors. That wasn't the item. I expect the minister to explain and expect the minister to explain how he can only find 2.5m euros. It reminds me of those 6 miles [5 km] highways, which is the least of the problems, to take 5 km of highways and move them to a village there. That's what the minister looks like, just like that, he can take it out. I know that the minister of 2.5m euros is not much money, because given what his agency is doing and what he's doing and what he's doing in his current business, it's probably something he's carrying in his little pocket. But Serbian citizens who fill the budget of 2.5m euros are big money. People who understand better could certainly say how many 2.5m euros can secure jobs, how much to build kindergartens, how much to build schools, how much to increase pensions to pensioners. None of it cares about either the Minister or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is important that they arrested General Mladic's son this morning, that they let him go, that in the meantime they kidnapped him, apparently, a woman, since the information was somewhere from 11:30, it is 13/10 hours, we have no information that Darko Mladic's wife showed up. I remind you, she left for work this morning, she didn't come to work, she's gone home, her cell phone's unreachable, her family doesn't know where she is, she doesn't know what happened to her. I asked for an answer from the chairman, then Albianic, I have to turn around to see who the chairman is now, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since you often change. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you are a serious man and I believe that you care that General Mladic is not in The Hague, I believe that you care and that the family of General Mladic is safe, so I am asking you now that from the post of chairman, and you can because at this moment you are the President of Parliament, you are replacing him in his absence, immediately ask the competent services, the competent ministry, to bring home Mrs. Biljana Mladic, that we inform the public, that the public is not concerned. They were very concerned, we have all those on whose gates that board stands - a safe house for Ratko Mladic; it is certainly a safe house for General Mladic's family and don't disturb those people without reason, but give the right information, let Mrs Biljana Mladic return home and no longer disturb the members of the Mladic family, as in Republika Srpska and Montenegro are harassing members of the Karadzic family. You can give millions and billions, you're free. I already told you, no more soul sales in Serbia. Everything that was for sale has already been bought. You were both bought by Soroš and Americans and Shipari, whoever gave some money, sold your soul to the devil, sold your faith for dinner, leave this people who are not ready for such a thing, a people who appreciate the merits of General Ratko Mladic. After all, you are under obligation, no matter what you think, to inform the MP, in accordance with Article 226, as soon as possible. I strongly recommend it to you, Mr. Mrkonjic, and I repeat, I am convinced that you share my opinion when I speak of General Mladić and his family. I'm ordering the absent secretary to accept this amendment if he wants the law to be worth something to him. It's not that story you tried to push us through, that we want to get back the law that was in force earlier, we're just trying to prove to you that you're able to make worse from the worse. One question for the President of Parliament. I heard here earlier, otherwise I didn't have that information, that Oliver Dulic was preparing to supply the MPs with laptops, which is really scary. If we can't buy laptops if we need them, then I don't know who in Serbia can. My question to Mr Oliver Dulic – are we going to get those laptops because they're going to sell them to us "DG Computers"? This is the company of Mr Oliver Dulic, who, by the way, sold computers at very unfavourable prices to almost all companies, i.e. institutions in Subotica. If he's already buying, don't let it be over this unfavourable, his firm.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9580	I thank Mrs. Radetti. I join the part concerning General Mladic. I ask Police Minister Dragan Jocic to inform the Assembly of the problem, as suggested by Ms Verica Radeta. I note that Mr Jocic has always been correct and responded immediately to all the demands of the MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9581	Mr. Mrkonjic, this will be Article 225 at first sight, but it is essentially article 136, which is directly related to today's agenda. Of course, there is no Mr. Cvetkovic, but I have to ask a question and ask for an answer, we have to get that answer during today, during this session, because then we'll better figure out what it is about when it comes to changing and supplementing the Insurance Act. I'll start with the first question. So it's in direct connection with the bill, Mr. Murcony, so you know. I'm interested in this insurance "Grave", are the owners of the company's capital certain Mr. Danko Djunic and Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic? There are indications that they are owners of some percentage, that they are present in the insurance company and that they have joined some other companies seeking one of these laws. If these people are in this insurance company, then it's clear to us why Mr. Cvetkovic is silently defending his bill, and for some uninformed jump, so he thinks it's nice that they're proposing, so he's unsuccessfully trying to defend. It is the same, Mr. Mrkonjic, about the agenda point, it's called TBI, in Serbian, on theirs I don't know how, "Dunav". There is a certain Mrs Mirjana Grbovic. What's she doing in that insurance company? It seems very uninteresting to most of this my question, but it's our first life insurance policy. Just to remind you, there's no one from G17 plus, yesterday, on the mention of the name Labus, Albianic had a small heart attack, so he went outside to help him. What's this about? Why does this law get cardiological dimensions? Yesterday, you insisted at all costs that at 6:00 a.m., radicals leave the session so that you can rewind these amendments, and we said for the first time -- we won't, we'll stay until the end, and we'll narrow your script down. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, for this session today is a very important topic, is it time to finally get an answer to what happened to the fictitious damage paid through some insurance companies? You know that, first of all, it refers to this one with state property. Is it possible that these fictitious damages are used to fund some parties, Mrs. Nado, and that's where I mean DS and G17 plus? So, you make up the damage, you make up the record, it pays off, and that money ends up, I say, at DS and G17 plus. That's why it was very painful when you shared public enterprises and influence in public enterprises. Why am I saying this? Because yesterday I told you that the Special Anti-Organised Crime Unit, regardless of what has been influenced there by Mladjan Dinkic and his men there, has informed the Special Prosecutor's Office for the fight against organised crime that it is necessary to urgently initiate criminal proceedings against a mob. Does this procedure of amending and supplementing the Insurance Act aim to prevent the police, prosecutors and judicial action of disclosing who is stealing in this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9582	I got the question. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? Here you are, People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9583	As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, there are two reasons why this amendment is unacceptable to us. One is a formal-legal nature, and the other is a matter of content. So, from the point of view of formal-legal nature, the amendment refers not to the draft law on amendments to the law, which is the subject of our debate today, but to the text of the basic law. It certainly cannot react by amendment to the text of the basic law. That couldn't have happened by now. On the other hand, the text of the amendment states that point 7 of Article 44 of the basic law is deleted. Article 44 provides for conditions, i.e. the reasons for which an authorisation for the establishment of an insurance company is to be rejected. Point 7 is one of the conditions for which an application for the establishment of an insurance company is rejected. The amendment requires that point 7 be deleted, and the justification for erasing the need for the person whose request has been rejected to determine a minimum period of time for the new law, but provided that there are exclusively objective criteria for obtaining the authorisation. So, just an explanation is not solved by this amendment. The fact that this point 7 would be deleted, because of the reasons set out here, is not achieved by the reason set out, except by deleting one of the criteria that makes it impossible to issue an insurance licence. That's why this amendment is unacceptable to us. I just wanted to say something. Mrs. Radeta, I really don't think it's right for you to say something about this pay phone that's not true. So, part of your statement I can confirm, but you know that the disturbance caused exactly what you're calling the late prime minister as you call it. I don't think it's right for you to say something out of this pay phone that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9584	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9585	It is absolutely unacceptable what a Democratic Party representative says, because something that does not stand on several occasions has been said. First, even if the article of 44 had not been changed at all, we have agreed in this assembly of the National Assembly, and it has been repeatedly implemented, that when it comes to the law of amendments, we can also go to those members of the law that are not touched at all by the bill. Article 44 is subject to amendment and addition of the Law. You can't just focus on what you added. You're changing Article 44, you're supplementing it in your own way, and we're changing it in our own, but the same member, Article 44, is the same law. You're wrong about that at all. Did Grave justify its establishment? Did anyone ask him if his establishment was justified, or others, as these insurance companies are already called? Absolutely, so one criterion that will serve as a bribe and corruption we're erasing you. We're helping make the law better. He comes to the assistant minister, I don't know what kind of gentleman he's in here, maybe he's taking notes, so he comes to the assistant minister and he says, "We want to start a stock company," he says -- you have everything, but point 7 gives me the discretionary right to determine that there's no justification, then they say -- excuse me, sir, and how much it costs to justify it. Can't you see when they're breaking the laws that embarrass the government? Furthermore, the explanation of the amendment is remarkable. He's not in college with the amendment itself. The amendment promoter says you're right about what you're changing, which you're adding to your third position. He says, it is acceptable to set a minimum time limit for a new submission to the person whose request has been denied, but only if we determine the right criteria. So we're not erasing what you're adding, we're just trying to establish the right criteria for that to apply. The right thing to do is to make sure you don't stay on the floor with the secretary, on the deputy, on the assistant, on some clerk. Or, perhaps I did not read the bill well, or there are provisions that justify the establishment. Then you're absolutely right. So, if there are provisions in the bill that say it is justified in that case, in that case, in that case, unwarrantedly, I agree with that, gentlemen, and thus, this is a clear proposal of the Democratic Party law, Minister Cvetkovic, Danko Djindjic and other financial tycoons that have been leading Serbia for seven years. As they lead it, the citizens of Serbia know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9586	I thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to explain the amendments, I will ask, in relation to Article 226, one parliamentary question, is about the law itself. My parliamentary question concerns the percentage of the participation of foreign insurance companies, state insurance companies and private insurance companies, ours, in public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, state institutions of education and health. When we get the data we're supposed to get here, then we'll see why foreign insurance companies have a large percentage increase in total insurance participation. My amendment refers to Article 8 of the Amendment to the Insurance Act, which I will read. You have here suggested that Article 47 be changed and that it reads: "The authorities of the insurance company are subject to a law governing the legal position of companies, if this law does not regulate certain issues differently". Item 2: "The director of the insurance company must be in a working relationship with the company, and if the company does not have a director, in a working relationship it must be the chairman of the Management Board. "I propose that this article 8 be deleted, and the reasons are next. If we are changing and inserting only partial individual legal provisions by amending and supplementing the law and saying that the law governing the legal position of companies and only in one segment regulates a particular area, and in all others we rule out, then it is inappropriate, then it is legal notsens and I suggest that it be deleted. If we have defined ourselves for this concept, then we had to mention here and the Labour Act as a system law, the Business Society Act, which we refer to here, the National Bank Act, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on Liabilities, the Act on Foreign Trade, etc., but it is inappropriate to introduce system laws into the parent law and amend certain provisions. When we talk about insurance and the reform procedure that has made the current power since 2003, then we must get, above all, MPs, citizens of Serbia, a real analysis of insurance in Serbia. We don't have that here. We have entered a reform of the entire system under the pressure of the international community, primarily certain circles that want to insert their insurance houses here, and we know which they are, these are German insurance companies, Austrian and Slovenian, which are the most performing in Serbia. Certain societies have already infiltrated, and they will infiltrate, and we are powerless because we haven't done an analysis, we haven't taken measures to overcome the situation and we don't know what to do in a specific case. If we had done an analysis, then we would know clearly what we're going to do, what percentage of insurance we can give to foreign homes, when we privatise large state houses - DDOR and Danube, whether we do it immediately or do it in three years when we strengthen our insurance system, whether we do it for five, ten or so. We didn't do it. Why didn't we do it? The first thing is pressure, the second thing is a privatisation commission. That's our motive. Take, grab a commission, sell a budget, and what we can get in the insurance field, that's irrelevant. When I say that we don't take care and analyze, we have to start with who our directors are today, who are our board members. They're people who listen, they're party people. We had a G17 and DS on this last deal a dozen days ago, and we had the DSS in the Danube, and now we've mixed it up a little bit. These are people who will listen, both directors and board members. He'll do everything you do. The participation of these two state houses in 2005 was about 66 - 67% of total insurance. Last year it was reduced to 65%. This year it's going to fall to 63%, maybe 64%, and it's going to fall apart until we sell the entire system we currently own state-owned. In DDOR, we have about 43.87% of state property, and in the Danube, we have 94%. There are significant funds here, which we have to talk about, which should go into the budget, and they won't go in, since you're going to sell it at a baffle price, as you sold the banking system, as you sold the bakers, and the dairy and cementists, etc., the entire economy. When we talk about increasing insurance companies that are currently operating, and on the side they're owned, we have eight of them in total. In 2006, they, which means eight, increased their participation in life insurance by 84%. In non-life insurance, they increased their participation from 5% to 19.5%, and in the total insurance premium they increased their percentage from 10.7% to 26.4%. This year it's going to be an even higher percentage. When we privatize, we will simply lose insurance as a safe item. Why? Because of the insurance houses, regardless of all these problems that these houses have, I mean these two, DDOR and Danube, we have very good business, they achieved about six million euros in profits in 2005, last year 20 million. And if your staff weren't there, if the funds weren't poured out into sports clubs, then it would have gone into private pockets, if it hadn't been for cultural institutions and certain cultural events and numerous other events involving these houses, the income of these insurance houses would have been far greater. Given that your personnel are there, they're coming across a few dollars for both political parties and you're funding from these funds, it's generally known, so in the end we have a profit that's acceptable, but it won't be that moment, so that's the profit of this country, this nation, this people, this Serbian citizens, when we privatise all of it, we don't have a profit. It will evaporate and go to the countries from which the insurance houses are from. When we talk about the technical and personnel equipment of our insurance houses, we have to say that they are very well technical and staffed and that we have very good programs, and they best refer to certain information that can be obtained, your personnel are there, go and ask them. At seminars organised in the Balkans, Serbian representatives have the highest participation, with the most professional and best insurance programmes. What's he saying? That we have personnel that can handle programs. Why can't we keep it? You lobby to make speedy privatisation, to sell those houses. When I say you, I mean the governing structure. You're breaking up the security system. When we talk about participation in insurance by head of the population, then we can see that in Serbia in 2004, each citizen singled out 28 euros, in 2005, 54 euros, in 2006, 62 euros, about 70 euros is expected in 2007. There are around 125 euros in medium-developed countries, in highly developed countries about 300 euros. So, from the existing mass that the insurance houses receive, it can't be realized anymore. We can talk about programs now, etc., but until the insurance company drags its hand into the citizen's wallet no program, we can talk about some extra-quality programs for nothing, because there's no way to get out of it. When we can extract larger amounts of funds, come to a level of 120, 150, 300 euros, then we can talk about the programs now spoken of by insurance companies from abroad and today offer us everything offered in the area of life insurance. When we talk about foreigners and their participation here, they will develop life insurance, and at least they will work to ensure our economy and our economy, our property. Why? They don't care about that. It will be dedicated exclusively to what is a trend in the world, to life insurance. Finally to conclude and leave space and others, this amendment must be accepted, you must accept the amendments of the SRS because they are constructive, because we want good for the people and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9588	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we spent all day yesterday pointing to the democratic authorities and citizens of Serbia for a criminal association formed in Ruma with the intention of taking power in the elections. Despite the fact that we showed you and pointed out the resignations submitted by the committees, who became citizens of Ruma after the adoption of those resignations, this morning a parliamentary group with two citizens, because they were no longer MPs, held a assembly in the Ruma Municipality. In addition to these two citizens, there is another citizen who once belonged to the PSS, who was also resigned by the Administrative Commission. The documents adopted at that illegal session were stamped because the existing seal of the Assembly of the Municipality of Ruma was still valid and was not declared invalid. So, the forgery, when you don't have the power of the arguments, you have the argument of strength and you're capable of repossessing anything that comes to your mind. It won't be possible, ladies and gentlemen. I think that tyranny has to end once, especially if the Ministry didn't want to write a document, maybe they don't know, and if they don't know we can accept it then, because what the minister signed is nothing, there's no name and last name of this document, whether it's an act, whether it's an order, whether it's anything; there isn't, except for the address of the Assembly of Rum. In the paper, the minister acknowledges that the resignations of those who are now falsely represented as committees have been verified. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the tyranny of democracy, democracy must finally cease. When I went out for a pay phone, just two more sentences. I don't agree with Mr. Krasic when he says he's decorated, and it's pessimistic, not to say far away. It is a very prestigious medal, Mr Krasic, because Dinkic has reached Djelic, Kostunica, Tadic and made the first payment of 30,000 euros for the medal. The way you're working, you'll soon be at the political asylum.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9590	According to the amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to be honest, I tried to find out where the minister and his associate were, because last time there was a debate about the law he was set up for by the government, I think it was a CEFTA agreement, he was at the 13:30 assembly restaurant, and the break was usually from 14 to 15 o'clock, so I'd ask you, Mr. Mr. Mr. Secretary, to see why Mr. Minister came out at the moment when Radeta explained her amendment. Now I'm the gentleman in question, who Mr. Nikolic says might be taking notes, I don't know what quality you're in here, I can ask, but you can't answer me, and all I can ask is the minister what I'm about to bring out as the data I just received, he wouldn't give me an answer. Therefore, I will prepare full documentation in the form of a parliamentary issue, to deliver to the Committee on Finance, and Mrs Tabakovic will be very happy to forward to the Governor of the National Bank and the Minister of Finance what is involved in the crime and racketeering of people who have insurance societies. I did not mention, for some propaganda or other reasons, the case of the insurance company Prizma from Topola this morning, but because of the fact that this and this law provided the possibility that only those who are favorites of the current owners, who are members of the G17 group, the "yellow democratic enterprise", the DSS or New Serbia, or I already do not know who they are, are protecting and do not have a banal reason to shut down their company. Mr. Buha has submitted an amendment and has asked to delete the position of the second proposed member, who says the director of the insurance company must be in a working relationship with the company. What about this man you're, like, out of nothing, for some completely banal reasons, and I'll tell you how you took away your work permit, and he can't be anywhere else in a working relationship? You made him, that is, do so by his discretionary authority as governor of the National Bank, to carry out a voluntary liquidation of companies that at that time had 236 million in their capital account. Who needs to go into voluntary liquidation with so much money and why would that be the interest of that man, come on, think about it a little bit, if he wasn't blackmailed, if they didn't tell him -- if you don't want to volunteer, we'll find a million other reasons why you're gonna have to shut down your firm. Because he probably got into the business area where mobsters in power, those around the governors, didn't like it. Tell me, please, and based on the member you're changing, not only these 7 points, it's probably also one of the reasons, it hasn't given me the justification to start a society, but I'll see when I get that paperwork, but now and by this supplement, which is what a colleague of Radeta was talking about, how you're going to explain after so much time that the justification requires that man is possible when he had to perform so-called. Voluntary liquidation, or you have to, or we'll sit on your back and do whatever we want. They cited the reason that at the time he was forced to volunteer, he did not have 2.5m euros, he had 2.8m euros, and on the other hand, in that year when he was forced to execute... For all of you, I remember as if yesterday, when the law was passed, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of our parliamentary group, warned that so small would disappear and that the tycoons would do whatever they wanted and that other people and businesses would not be able to do business. In that year, the insurance company, I don't know what character, I think it's some stock company or some AMS association, will correct me Mrs. Tabakovic if I'm wrong, was the first for the success of business and the insurance company "Prizma" in second place. Now tell me, do you and whoever you guarantee legal and other security in a country where people are threatened in a certain way, when you come and tell a man who has so much money in his account, who normally operates, who has his clientele, who employs so many people, who are dealing with what's now the subject of the debate, which is an intervention in insurance, that he must be pressured to withdraw because there is no room for him, because there is such a bar that the crocodile is a lot, but only those from the top of the state government and those around the mob clan Governor Jelasic and the G17 Plus family. No one in their right mind can stand it. You have no excuse for such a thing. Be assured that both the mentioned company and anyone you thus prevent from operating in the state of Serbia, in which he wants to work, in accordance with his abilities and his capital, will fight to the end. After all, justice must once be won. Over a certain number of months, and time goes by very quickly, you'll see that we'll return everything to normal flows and give opportunity to people who want to work. What the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic, said earlier, should there be 100 and 200 insurance companies, and not that in this way, people who have acquired certain business integrity, who have acquired an image, a reputation, in one single day take down everything that is valuable and diligently worked so that they can no longer go anywhere, and especially those who have been forced to lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9592	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9593	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as the other MPs of the SRS, have also submitted an amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, with a proposal to delete the article 10th, given that the whole bill is unnecessary, essentially, and harmful for many reasons, already mentioned by the SRS MPs. The essence of the things of these changes and additions lies in preparing the ground for privatising insurance companies. It is well known that insurance companies are extremely profitable, that they have a market, significant infrastructure, capital, but their value will be assessed as the estimated value of sugar, cement, iron, etc. Today we have affairs and a large number of people involved, and as a rule, bearers of significant functions in the dossal governments from 2001 to today. This is Article 10. The bill refers to defining the status of a person who will deal with insurance interventions. So, the government wants, or the promoter, to slowly narrow down the circle of persons who will be involved in this business, which will certainly be very devastating for the army of those who, as persons with the authority of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, have been able to carry out insurance interventions. Now it applies only to employees in that person, or to some insurance company. In this way, it directly affects the reduction in the number of those who in this difficult time of transition, in Serbian, and we say - the robbery of state and former social assets, were able to make some kind of income, due to the existence of their family. So we had representation by so-called. The multilevel system, which worked as it worked, but it obviously doesn't suit someone, and that's why they're going behind the conditions for joining the WTO, there for some years, as they say. These faces have been controlled by insurance companies, above all, because of the legal obligation, but also because of the preservation and protection of their credibility. Also, those individuals have brought an adequate profit by providing insurance with a large number of clients. Let us not forget that insurance companies, especially those from abroad who have their own representations registered in Serbia, will not just mass-employ workers, or agents who will in some way replace persons who have engaged in the provision of an NBS license. Those who, to quote the proposed change, will have to meet inhumane conditions, unworthy men, and that has already been said by counterpart Jorgovanka Tabakovic and other SRS MPs. What does it mean to prevent a human being from having his own birth? It is, in addition to trampling on basic human rights, a threat to the biological survival of the nation. Are these examples of how modern Europe treats man, and we want to impose it on our citizens? The explanation mentions alleged abuses by authorised persons in insurance mediation, and these abuses usually occur when payment is due for damages or an accident, resulting in a dispute between the insurance company and the insurance company. This means that it is not only a problem in the work of an authorised person, but in the correctness of the insurance society itself. We have examples that our citizens have had to seek justice in court in many cases, and even in a country where it is the seat of the insurance house, but I repeat again, not because of the work of a person with a NBS license, but because of finding holes in the contract in order to avoid any damage or any other kind of compensation to an insurance company. It would be better if such insurance companies were forced by the court to pay their clients state premiums for their work permits. In particular, I know of a case where the trial is being conducted in Serbia, and it is likely to begin in the country where the house originates. I would just say that SRS MP Zoran Despotovic specifically told the minister in principle what it is and expects feedback from the NBS, whether something is done specifically in this case. By deleting Article 10. The bill, like other members as proposed by the SRS MPs, will also prevent the adoption of a law that is in fact a shortcut to the robbery of state property, based on the purchaser's 70 per cent share of the total assets, instead of 49%, in order to preserve the share of the state as the majority owner. The Agency may, as appropriate, carry out the sale process and parts of the company's assets, therefore, of what is worth and what is attractive. Is it okay, by the logic of the promoter, that someone who wants to buy it has to buy businesses around the Shop, Sjenica, instead of buying a business in Knez Michael and Novi Sad, etc. I'm re-evaluating the value of the property, because that's exactly what's coming to privatise the insurance companies. We have many examples of the abuse of business space that once belonged to social, or state-owned enterprises. There's been a lot of talk here about "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", companies "Beko", "Putnik", etc., whose space for the bagatel is rented by privileged persons or individual televisions such as TV B92, who later rent it to someone else for a much larger amount of money. In the end, what actually stings my eyes in this bill, and all the MPs of the SRS, is a commission. It says nicely in this draft law in Article 243v that the minister himself prescribes the amount of commission after the privatisation. I am personally asking Mr. Minister about a situation, that is, the privatisation of the Novi Popovac cement factory, and since I worked in that factory... At the time of privatisation of the New Popovac cement factory, Minister Mirko Cvetkovic today was the director of the Privatisation Agency. Necessa Kolesar, then head of the cabinet of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, was chairman of the Management Board of the Popovic cementery. He was hanging out here, as I would say, and Zoran Janjusevic, right at the time of that privatisation of the cement factory. The privatisation minister at the time was Aleksandar Vlahovic. Now imagine this crew, does it give you confidence in something fair and serious? Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, that Nemanja Kolesar is not rewarded with two million and 300 dollars, according to a member of the law like this 243v, for successful privatisation. The money, as the public knows, is paid into their accounts on those well-known exotic islands. I would be ashamed to talk about one member of the SRS, especially the official, and we were in power from 1998 to 2000. That's why you stay silent, because you can't justify yourself or your party colleagues from what they did to Serbia. I hope that MPs of the ruling coalition, and in particular DS MPs, will vote in the voting day for this amendment, as well as for all amendments to the SRS, because we would thus prevent some new Kolesar from appearing. In the end, in vain, the Serbian government prepared money to pay informants. He is proud of Ratko Mladic for his son, proud of Darko Mladic for his father. Again, I am taking the opportunity to wish General Ratko Mladic safe and free mountain trails and as few informants and traitors as possible on his way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9594	I thank the People's Messenger Radishi Ilic. According to the amendment, the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and then probably a break. Here you go. You've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9595	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the committees of parliament were unable to accept this amendment when they discussed the government's proposal to amend and supplement this member of the law, this amendment, because this member, Mr. Minister, is directly opposed to Article 60. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that speaks of everyone having the right to work. Article 60. The constitution says, and I'd like to ask you, Mr. Mrkonjić, to take away my time to read, "Be assured of your right to work, in accordance with the law. Everyone has the right to a free choice of work. All of them, on equal terms, are available to all jobs. Everyone has the right to respect the dignity of his person at work, safe and healthy working conditions, necessary protection at work, limited working hours, daily and Sunday holidays, paid vacations" etc. Now you tell me, does the Labour Act, since the position of Article 160. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees, in accordance with the law, that in the area of insurance, in the area of colporteurship, in the field of accounting, that I do not order further, you can limit the citizen of Serbia to do the job only if he is constantly employed? You can't. Who knows how many of you are in constant work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you have knowledge of a certain profile of occupation and you have a part-time contract to work with a company for what you specialize in. How many fees are in companies and how many are in those who have such contracts. Well, in the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is a public well-known journalist, who is now an adviser or something in the president's office. What do you mean, Mr. Minister, that for insurance companies alone, you limit your right to the work of citizens, and you heard from fellow Ilic, who knows how many tens of thousands of such people are. In the morning, there's this engineer in some company that you've destroyed and that's ruined, and he's got a salary of 150 or 200 euros, and what he's going to do in the afternoon -- to mediate insurance. Maybe he's more successful at it than the one who keeps busy. You measure the ability and restrict people's right to work to earn extra income. Or, you have an accountant or a lawyer who works in a public utility company, anywhere, a bank clerk ends up working hours and he leaves this afternoon, goes door to door and door to door, and looks for a client for the policy he offers him. That someone who deals with insurance interventions, who you no longer allow to do this job, not only has additional income, but even, I repeat, is very often more successful than the one who is constantly employed and who works for a fixed compensation. That's amazing. This member of the law and this amendment, Mr. Cvetkovic, when it is and if the Constitutional Court is established, cannot survive, because you take away the right to work. You can say tomorrow - anyone who has a license for an accountant, and is employed by a company and works in a place, this afternoon's work cannot be done. So you start from one area to the next, and how long will that take us? You will then completely terminate the employer's contract for part-time work or for mediation for any job. Tell these people who sell newspapers on the street, and they're not constantly employed at Caneta Frog or anyone else - if you can't do that, you can't stand on traffic lights and sell newspapers, because you have to be constantly employed. How long will that take us? You can't change the law like this, Mr. Minister. You explicitly say - for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and beware of what you said in your last position: "A strange natural person who, by the law of the state of which he is a citizen, meets the conditions for carrying out insurance interventions, can do these jobs", you have now crossed down and stood "under the conditions of reciprocity". So, a foreign citizen doesn't have to be constantly employed and he can, in accordance with this last view, do it, and a Serbian citizen, the one whose constitution guarantees the right to work, can't do it for you. I repeat again, I can't judge at this point, maybe just today someone decided before noon, got an offer from some insurance company, didn't get enough of the salary he's working for, you know, they don't have people to eat bread, and he thinks he's gonna be successful in that job to offer a insurance policy and get a percentage out of it. Now everything depends on what insurance company he's working for. You tell people like that, you can't make extra money, but you can put up with it, be hungry, keep your children naked and barefoot because we're in power and we can. It just can't survive. Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm telling you again, once the Constitutional Court is established, such a member of the law, or anywhere else you can think of, can't stay in legal traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9596	I thank Natashi Jovanovic. Mr. Free Adzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9597	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, amended by counterpart Radisa Ilic, who is proposing that Article 10 be deleted. The draft law amending the Insurance Act should not be adopted. Article 10. The government as a proposer wants to specify which individuals can be authorised to mediate in insurance. In fact, it suggests that instead of the word "person", as it stands in the basic text of the law, it should stand "employee in the person who is authorized to mediate in insurance". In this way, the government wants to regulate contractual relations more precisely in the area of insurance sales. This way prevents the organisation of various multilevel insurance models that threaten a normal and per citizen secure insurance system. So that's where the insurance system is established because of citizens who are being insured, not those who are carrying out insurance. Also, Article 10. The government suggests erasing the earlier solution that foreign legal persons in insurance interventions can carry out on the principle of reciprocity. One of the conditions for our country's entry into the World Trade Organisation, which is of great importance to all our citizens, is to abolish restrictions on reciprocity. Let me remind you that the Government has come up with an Action Plan to ensure that the solutions to the positive regulations are consistent with these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9598	I thank Parliamentarian Slobodan Adzic. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9599	I'll literally round up what Miss Jovanovic was talking about. In the refusal of this amendment, the Government wrote that the sale of insurance services is done through different contractual relations or so on. The multilevel system, which has created major problems in practice so far. What, how many, which nature, is not indicated. If you had used a type-explanatory moment -- the specificity of the insurance market as very important financial areas, we might have understood, but that argument doesn't stand either. The practice has been developed to develop in the banking system these foreign banks develop a new mobile banker, people with no permanent working relationship, no office, with propaganda material, that go to people's doors, harass the phone, so they don't notify, they work almost until harassment, and you in the insurance area prevent the possibility of intervention at a time when your employment is rapidly dropping. How long has "Kwelle" been functioning, delivering goods from abroad, where has knowingly made a failure not to customs goods worth up to a hundred euros? Did any of that have any income? It worked until a certain moment, as it passed invisiblely and filled someone's pockets. How long has Cepter functioned as a door-to-door supply system – until Mr Tomislav Nikolic points out that as the speaker of this assembly. Everything I'm talking about is in support of these provisions that you're making have a clear intention and are working for the benefit of foreign insurance companies, and at the expense of domestic, or citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9600	I thank Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Resume session is at 15 hours and 10 minutes, and will be member 12. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon order. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic, a colleague from the Savawedding, a municipality where I live. Therefore, it has an advantage. Here you go, Milan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment in front of the SRS to Article 12, as the current chairman said, of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, which says that Article 94, paragraph 6 of the current law, means old law, adds two new keywords. I must point out that these two key words, the words that need to be put out or destroyed by the end, are some insurance company or house. The two words were "implemented" of liquidation under the old law, and under the new law with the addition of "open or implemented emergency" liquidation procedure, i.e. bankruptcy. Which means open procedure or forced liquidation best let the minister from this pay phone explain to us, so we can continue the debate, because Serbian citizens need to know what the open procedure means. I hope the minister will give us that explanation by the end of the day. I must point out that these two words are the basis for abuse of bankruptcy proceedings even though we have in the Law on the bankruptcy of two members in the beginning, who say: "The bankruptcy procedure, in the sense of this law, involves bankruptcy, or reorganisation. The reorganisation shall include the settlement of trustees, in a manner and under the conditions of a specific reorganisation plan. "There are now three items here – if he cannot meet his obligations within 45 days. We're asking a question, what if he can? Then He made it amazing that he could not fulfil his existing obligations. And what if he can? I have pointed out these two members of the Banking Procedure Act and for the reason that this term "open procedure" to any insurance home or insurance company puts a bankruptcy function, even though they have settled obligations or may be delayed with the reconciliation of obligations one day. In 2003, I have to remind myself, there were 40 insurance companies in Serbia-Montenegro or 149 agencies for intermediation and representation, although experts still claimed that a quarter was enough, i.e. 10 insurance companies. The highest percentage was even then, over 30 percent, Danube Insurance, DDOR Novi Sad and Cepter. Kepter took nearly half of his life insurance. In May 2004 reminders, a law was passed that insurance houses in a larger censorship obligation, meaning they had to have a higher censorship, which was then set by the ministry to over 123 per cent and that supervision from the finance ministry was transferred to the National Bank of Serbia, after which in 2004, the National Bank of Serbia closed 15 insurance companies on the basis of some criteria, which ended up with a court epilogue in the opposite direction. I must mention that the insurance companies that received the labour ban have initiated a judicial dispute and have won a court dispute against the National Bank of Serbia. It was then that the first clearing of the terrain and the tycoonisation of Serbia, related to the opening of the market to other insurance houses. We ask the minister, what about these people today and those insurance companies that got the verdict in their favor? One more thing I have to mention is that this amendment is related to Articles 5 and 6 of the amendment of the law, or to Articles 35 and 39 of the old law, so that it is, in a technical sense, illustrated to Article 12, because of the terms I have mentioned, which is either open or forced liquidation procedure. Previously on "SRS colleagues" who submitted the amendments to Articles 5 and 6 you could hear more about it, so I wouldn't repeat it now. I would add just one more thing, that the conclusion the government gave the answer to is the same to the members of the 5th, 6th and 12th, and it's enough to say that it's just a matter of technical matter and using these two terms to clean the ground for the insurance houses that are yet to come to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9603	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9604	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, respected presidency and dear friends, on the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. With the amendment, I propose that Article 13 be deleted, as the restriction provided for by this proposal of the Government is completely excessive. I must say, the destruction of the financial sector and insurance companies continues. After the destruction of the banking system, insurance companies came in line, i.e. the lecture of domestic insurance companies to foreign insurance companies. Privatisation of insurance companies leads to their destruction, i.e. the destruction of domestic insurance companies. Privatisation of insurance companies is carried out primarily because of the fees that the Privatisation Agency will receive. If this were a normal government, I mean a government that works in the interests of citizens, it would try to economically strengthen domestic insurance companies, as did Slovenians with Triglav Insurance, because the future is in insurance companies. Our government does not want to preserve domestic insurance companies, but rather wants to sell them to foreign insurance companies in order to get a commission, and no one thinks what will happen to a number of workers working in these insurance companies. During the sale of domestic banks, there was a huge layoff of workers. There have been promises that these workers will receive a job in a number of private banks that will be opened with us in the future; many banks have opened, however, these workers, even though they had knowledge and experience, did not get a place in those banks because of years of age. If there is a sale of insurance companies, the chances of these insurance workers passing as well as bank workers are high. With these changes and additions to the Law, the government in Serbia wants, by order of foreign insurance companies, to prevent competition after the sale of insurance companies. To read what I want to change here. The Government has proposed to Article 13 of this proposal - Article 95 sets out solutions regarding persons carrying out insurance intervention and representation activities, by explicitly predicting that only employees in the insurance company, i.e. insurance representation companies, i.e. insurance representatives, etc. are allowed to carry out these tasks. Therefore, insurance is predicted to be unable to deal with those who are not employed in insurance companies. If this were an orderly state, if there weren't a large number of unemployed, as there is, if workers could live off their eight-hour work, I wouldn't even stand this amendment. However, with this addition to the Law, the Government wants to prevent a large number of our citizens who are engaged in additional occupations, insurance interventions, from making extra income, and some may be the only income they have in the household. It has already been said that a large number of citizens are engaged in providing insurance services. Although they are not employed, they are engaged in this as complementary work, and I think they should be allowed to make additional income in the future. In my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, this restriction is excessive. There is also one problem with us in the state, in the government, that all the conditions that the EU requires of us are met, regardless of whether we have any harm or benefit from it and no matter how much damage it causes. It is clear to all of us that the price we pay for co-operation with the EU is very high and that it costs us dearly. It is as if we do not know the saying of the people, who plantes pumpkins with the devil, and their heads are pounding. We know who the devil is and whose head gets hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9605	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a debate in the principle that was led here, and during yesterday, it was suggested that a member of this kind existed and asked why such a member could be found in the law. What is this new member of the 180th proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in amendments to the Insurance Act? Article 180a reads: ''The National Bank of Serbia and the persons employed in the NBS, as well as the person who performs the duties laid down by this law, shall not be liable for the damage caused by the performance of that duty unless it is proved that the damage is done by intentional or extreme negligence. The person referred to in Article 1 shall not be liable for damages arising from that position even after the termination of the working relationship in the NBS or the termination of the duties. The National Bank of Serbia will compensate for the costs of representing NBS employees in court and administrative proceedings in connection with the duties that these employees have performed or have carried out under this law. The National Bank of Serbia will compensate for the costs of the 3rd member's position and those whose employment relationship in the NBS has ceased. ''Now one question is asked – if these gentlemen in the NBS are doing their job under the law, what harm can they do if they use the powers prescribed by law? The government rejected this amendment with the following explanation: ''Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the damage caused by the official duty does not correspond in the same way as for any other damage done. The proposed provision does not exclude the right to compensation for damages, but, in accordance with the general principles of liability for damages, determines the liability for the damage caused, which is not contrary to the provisions of Article 124. Law on civil servants, from the point of view of employee responsibilities. Such a provision cannot be considered unconstitutional. It may be observed in relation to Article 35(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that everyone has the right to compensation for material or immaterial damage caused by a state body, a public authority, an entity of an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government. The proposed provision refers to the protection of NBS and employees who carry out their duties professionally and securely, unless it is demonstrated that the damage was done on purpose or out of extreme negligence. This proposal, therefore, does not exclude the responsibility of the state compensation authority for damage caused by the illegal or irregular work of the entity under that provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. 'After such great quotes, let me try to explain. So, if the NBS or the person who has the authority or person employed is the cause of damage to a legal entity, the legal entity must first address the court, to prove that the damage is done to him by deliberate or extreme negligence of employees at the National Bank of Serbia. When he gets that verdict, if he ever gets it, only then can a legal person or another subject seek the judicial charge of the damage caused to him. The question now arises how will it prove to the court that the damage has been done to him on purpose. Or does the National Bank of Serbia, with Governor Jelasic, want to get immunity in advance and can work on the insurance market whatever they want? The experiences we have had with you since Dinkic entered financial affairs, and he entered the National Bank with a sock on his head, until today, everything is full of abuse. As unpleasant as that may be to you, the abuses began after that incursion, by the illegal spending of funds held by the National Bank of the then R & D. To create a vacuum on the money market, 15 domestic banks were shut down. Of those 15, four were the largest banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The reason for the governor at the time was that they couldn't do business, that these banks owed more than their assets and their claims were worth. Now, after six years, and here for seven years, there has been a conclusion that the Agency for Rehabilitation, Liquidation and Bank bankruptcy is covering up documentation from the public, from the National Assembly, the Finance Committee, etc. and that the situation in the banking market, when it comes to shut down banks, is not even close to being the governor at the time, and the current minister in the Serbian government argued. As a consequence, we have the following situation: we are no longer on the market for serious domestic banks to invest in domestic business entities. We have foreign banks that, under interest that can only dream in the countries from which they come, exclusively finance consumption, and not in the economy, but in the public and slowly introduce us into the situation that it is not only the state that will be in charge and be in debt slavery, but every individual out of the state. Who's been responsible for that until today? Nobody. Who was responsible for the abuses that the governor made back then, did he answer? It's not. How many criminal charges are written against him? Only the Serbian Radical Party has submitted dozens. Still the former governor and minister are hiding behind the immunity of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia. He is now aware that this cannot last forever, so it is proposed to protect himself by law and to establish immunity for all the abuses he has committed as governor of the National Bank of the then R & D. As for insurance, several smaller insurance companies experienced the fate of domestic banks, under various excuses. Even here were the stories that committee sessions were classified, the documentation was strictly confidential, at the request of the National Bank of Serbia, the then and present governor Jelasic, for an investigation conducted against persons who were either in charge of these insurance or who owned these insurance companies. As far as I know, it's been two or three years, no criminal charges have been filed. What's the matter? One classic abuse. There have been stories, speculation in the public, that ministers should not have said publicly, even Governor Jelasic, that the goal is to raise the value of domestic insurance companies that are in state or social property and that will go to privatisation. We now see in the amendments and additions to the Law that unfair competition is being introduced on the small door to the insurance market in Serbia, and thus there will certainly be investments of citizens in domestic insurance companies, thus falling the value of domestic insurance companies. Knowing what you are, you will do it for only one reason: that tycoons, the same ones who bought 70% of Serbian business giants, could buy those insurance companies, but not buy them for their real value, not to buy the market, because when you buy something, you buy the market, but to give them the malts, to give up the funds that are invested in insurance, to give up their own investment funds that would be placed in the domestic economy on far more favourable terms than you are now getting these loans from the European Bank for Development, the IMF and the World Bank. You're removing everything that has any financial value and anything that can help the state, the economy, the citizens to recover as soon as possible from the years behind us, especially since you came to power on October 5, 2000. Why does someone want immunity for what they're going to do? Well, he knows it's hard to prove whether someone deliberately or accidentally did some damage. There are among you fellow Members of the ruling majority, MPs who are lawyers, so let these lawyers imagine themselves a little before they press the button, because there are crimes that are committed out of neglect. The sanctions are milder, but the person who committed such a crime bears a criminal responsibility, because it was required to take and predict all possible consequences of what he did. What's here now? Here we'll protect an institution in advance and give her the right to do whatever she wants. In advance, we want to empower both the governor and the NBS employees so that they can go into the insurance market with insurance companies to do whatever they want and for whom and for whose account? In the first place, they will work for themselves, not for the NBS, and in the second place they will work for insurance companies where they probably already have actions. If they don't have them, then at least for those insurance companies that give them fat commissions. We don't want to mention the "coffer" affair, as the banks closed, as Dinkic tried even to close healthy domestic banks. So either they had to get along and look for a foreign partner and sell their securities out of value for nothing, to save Mladjan Dinkic, or they were closed. I'm going to mention only one bank that went through, and that's the First Entrepreneurial Bank. The first entrepreneurial bank was in a situation to be closed because Dinkic considered it a finance minister that it should not exist. She sold her ownership actions to foreign banks to protect them from Dinkic's will. Now this right is given to Jelasic, now this right is given to the NBS, now it is given to all employees that literally without any criminal, material or any other liability can do whatever they want on the insurance market. The result that can be is the destruction of domestic insurance companies, on the one hand, and the wealth of employees, firstly governors and all others who will work, who will blackmail insurance companies, funds, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9607	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People’s MP Lasslo Varga appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9608	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in connection with Article 226, and I'm asking for one piece of information, that is, a notice from the President of the National Assembly. According to congregation towers, the story is that the National Assembly tomorrow, meaning October 31st, will not work, and at the same time it is said that November 1st and 2nd will continue to work. The first of November is the Day of All Saints, and November 2, the Day of the Dead, and these are the holidays of a large number of citizens of this country. I think it would be inappropriate if the assembly didn't work tomorrow without working in the days of these holidays. I would like to remind the President of the Assembly that these days, in a large number of municipalities in Vojvodina, people are visiting the graves of their loved ones. Not only Catholics do so, but even Orthodox ones do so in some places. Practically, it means disrespect for a part of the assembly's MPs, if the assembly worked Thursday and Friday, and tomorrow would not work. I think the MPs of your MP club will agree with that. So I'm asking you is it true what could be heard in the towers??
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9609	Thank you. I don't know where you got this information, the Assembly will work both tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, since we have to finish this session, it's got to end the day for the vote. We have important points, these are ratifications of these agreements with the European Union, which we need to finish in an emergency period, so it's both tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and Friday, unless we finish this agenda item that we need to finish, which are related to the ratification of these agreements. You're not well informed. Thank you. Here, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Pastor Balint.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9610	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, I asked you a question during yesterday. The question was – when will the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Broadcasting, which MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, be put on the agenda on 19 June? During yesterday, I made an announcement that you promised in July that this would be on the agenda at the first session of the regular session, meaning October 1st. Now I wouldn't repeat everything I said yesterday, just in one sentence, it would be very good if this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting was on the agenda. Please, President, and this opportunity to answer my question as to what MPs of the Duke of Hungary Union should do to make you president of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 90(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at least let the MPs decide on a proposal to extend the agenda. If it's possible to re-propose this bill, then we'll do it. We don't think that's necessary from a legal point of view, but if you think we should suggest it again, then we'll do it, but I think it's a broken Article 90. Rules of Procedure. You also violated Article 100(3) yesterday. The Rules of Procedure, which says the president of the National Assembly must give an explanation to the MP. You didn't give me an answer yesterday morning, so I'm asking you to do it. I certainly find it very interesting, not to use any other word, that the National Assembly is discussing the protection of Fidel Castro's regime in Cuba, without you wanting to put on the agenda a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting which would allow media broadcasting in the languages of national minorities to function and to carry out this task. Please, if there is already a proposal for a declaration on Cuba at this session, on the protection of Fidel Castro's regime, then allow this amendment of the Law on Broadcasting to be found on the agenda, in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please respond again to what we need to do to at least put this proposal to the vote, means that the agenda is expanded at the next session, or at the third session of the Second Regular Session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9611	Thank you very much. At the first next session, the National Assembly will declare amendments to the agenda, i.e. an emergency procedure for all points proposed, including this point. What's important is that you don't solve the problem with this law, you just want to show that the state doesn't want to solve the problem. I have instructed you to talk to parliamentary groups about finding a way to address the problem of information in minority languages. You can propose a law that will not solve this problem and then make a campaign that the state does not want to solve the problem of information in minority languages. You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure, but let me tell you, at the beginning of the next session, there will be a statement on your agenda, and I will personally try to find a way to legally solve the problem that affects all national communities, and that is informing in minority languages, but to do it in a way that is not the right way. So you're only interested in showing that the state doesn't care about information in minority languages, and I care about the state finding a legal way to inform its minorities. The Kolundji hope, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9612	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd just like to say that we've been taking this initiative very seriously. What is unequivocally concluded is that the proposal is amended and complemented by the law that you have proposed cannot be accepted because it is impossible to exclude from privatisation media that now have programmes in the languages of national minorities. You know it is against the principles of the European Union, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, etc. It's just that you can't accept it. So, we, in line with our interest to solve this problem, have organised a joint session of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Minority Affairs. We put it on the agenda. These sessions send letters to all competent institutions in the country and require that a possible legal solution be found which will allow the acquired right of minority communities to be informed in their languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9613	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balint Pastor called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9614	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't think it's appropriate for you as president of the National Assembly to assess what we want to achieve with our proposal. People's MPs are able, they have the right, they have the obligation to propose laws. They have the right and the obligation to propose amendments. It is not for the president of the National Assembly to assess what we want to achieve and what we do not want to achieve. We want to achieve that our draft law on changes and additions to the Law on Broadcasting is on the agenda. You've made it impossible so far. We do not want to abuse the congregation speaker and report to the Rules of Procedure without talking about what the goal is and what concrete solutions we have proposed. However, I have repeatedly said that we have proposed a system solution that would exempt those media who broadcast minority language programmes from the privatisation system at least 800 minutes a week, because we believe that this is a good system solution. If someone thinks that this is not a good system solution, then our proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Broadcasting can improve the amendments, but it is important to open the debate on this subject. It's really late for that question. We've been proposing this for years. We haven't had any MPs, and since then, since we've had MPs, we've suggested it formally. We have discussed this several times with both the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic and the parties now in power, but we believe that this issue can only be resolved in the Assembly, only by adopting amendments and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting. I really don't understand you, Mr. President, why you're accusing the People's MPs of running a campaign here. I think there are more parties that do this, that are obstructing the work. It's really inappropriate for you to evaluate this bill of ours that way. I ask you once again to allow this proposal to be found on the agenda. We are not saying that the proposed solutions are a holy letter, it can be changed, it can be improved, but it would be good if this National Assembly were not dealing with Cuba and the protection of Fidel Castro's regime, but rather dealing with improving the position of national minorities. Let me just say one more sentence. It is not true that the European Union, the Council of Europe, said the OSCE cannot change the Law on Broadcasting. In both Slovakia and Hungary, and Romania, there are electronic media that are state-owned; these media broadcasts today in the languages of national minorities and all those countries are in the European Union. If these countries can, then so can Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9615	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9616	Mr. President, honourable MPs, when the Law on Broadcasting was passed, this was one of the topics that were subject to a great debate. I just want to say what the idea of privatizing local electronic media is. The media doesn't have to privatize to the table. It can be privatized to 51%, local self-government can own the media, 49% by law, and conclude a contract under which that medium continues to monitor the work of local self-government to the extent that local self-government... She can't just be the majority owner. Privatisation does not necessarily mean that the media at least 50%, 49% of the program will not monitor the work of local self-government and that it will determine, transfer sessions... It's a contract. What you're talking about and what I'm supporting is that there's a political problem and you're asking to talk about it. Since two MPs have been talking about it here, it is an objectively political problem and it would be good to sit down with the MPs' club, one and the other, and look at these amendments. Of course, the Law on Broadcasting can be changed, but then the point of privatising local media is raised. I must say that the situation in which we found Serbia in 2000 has no parallel in Europe, which is that virtually all municipalities had their own television. There is no European country where the municipal government has its own television. It's unique. It doesn't matter technically how it was equipped; I know that people who deal with the media in Europe were shocked, they said they never saw it, that every municipality has its own television. So that's a different solution. You place it as a political problem, as a dissatisfaction with a number of Serbian citizens. It is especially important that this is one minority, ethnic, national, which is very important for one country. One of the definitions of democracy is that democratic society is the one where the minority feels safe and secure. My advice is that it is not just a proposal to amend the law, but a political problem where it must meet with representatives of the duchy Hungarians and possibly to some other minority and discuss how to deal with it. One possibility of amending the law. That's what I'm giving you for, but I'm just explaining why it came up in law. We have an absurd situation across Serbia – we have, in fact, political media, political parties in the municipalities in power dealing with political propaganda via radio and television. Nowhere in the world does such a situation exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9617	Please don't spread the subject about this. It's an important topic and everyone cares about talking about it. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga has come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we need to get some things straight behind this pay phone, that is, in this house. Once again, I would like to repeat, it is not true that the Council of Europe, that the European Union, the OSCE, is that anyone has asked for the privatisation of the media. Mr. Beljanski, who prepared the bill at a meeting a month or a month ago and a half ago admitted it. He told us it was Serbia's proposal, and the OSCE, the Council of Europe and everyone else accepted it. So this isn't true. On the other hand, it's not true there's no place in the world. In fact, Mr. Pastor talked about it, in Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, and certainly in other countries, it works. For these three countries we know, we're safe. So, the municipality as a local self-government is the founder of radio and television stations, and that's not the problem in these countries, it wasn't the problem for the OSCE or the Council of Europe or the European Union. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Assembly, I would like to repeat this path that you do not have the right to replicate to the MPs who speak for the speaker. You can come out here and say your opinion. In the end, you said that the state was preparing a legal solution or a solution that would be in accordance with some law. I ask you when this law or that solution will be found on the agenda of this assembly, because the deadline for privatising these media is December 31st and there is a privatisation of many media. One more thing, it's not exactly what Mr. Korać was saying, because 49 or 51% of these media are not privatized, but completely privatized by these media. So there would be this theoretical possibility, only in practice you don't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9619	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras. I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9620	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've come to you for article 104 and Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, I really had no intention of going out for the assembly pay phone today, to comment on what you said yesterday that you were ashamed to be chairing this assembly. I think it's a scandalous statement. I think that statement speaks most of all about you. I can tell you that I too am ashamed to have such a president of the Assembly who is ashamed of the Parliament, that all that is happening in this congregation is the fruit of what life is in this country, the fruit of what the one who is chairing this assembly should do. It is totally inappropriate for you to make such a statement and now talk about a parliamentary group that has two or three members in this House, or MPs, to run a campaign on their request to find the law in front of the MPs. How much memory I have served, since the first day that the MPs of the SVM entered this assembly insisted on this law. It's been eight months and they haven't gotten the right answer yet. Please have the same relationship with all MP groups, regardless of their size. Once again, please do not make such statements as to be ashamed of the chairmanship of this congregation. The most responsible for the conduct that you consider irresponsible or most responsible for the relationship that exists in this congregation is the one who presides over this congregation and who should, above all, stick to Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9621	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Valjarevic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to article 17, which reads to be said "31 December 2009" in the words "30 June 2008". Before I start talking about the amendment, I will give some introductory information on the insurance market in Serbia, and also in parallel with the countries in our region. A stable and strong insurance market is very important for the development of the capital market. Since the main players in this market are precisely insurance houses as institutional investors, the potential size of the insurance market in Serbia is estimated to be around 480m euros. The share of insurance in the gross social product is 2.1% of the gross insurance premium per capita, which is around 64 euros. The average growth between 2004 and 2006 was about 50%, with life insurance doubled its share in total gross premiums. The total gross premium of insurance in nine months was around 360m euros in 2006, of which 89% are non-life insurance premiums. Currently, 17 insurance companies are operating on our market, three of which are involved in reassurance. On the majority side, there are seven insurance companies, while two of the largest domestic insurance houses, Dunav Insurance and DDOR Novi Sad, control about 60% of the insurance market. In addition to the insurance companies themselves, the agencies, both intermediate and representative, and last year, commercial banks were given the opportunity to sell insurance. Although the concentration of the insurance company on the market is very high, foreign insurance houses entered the domestic market in 2006, counting on their share of the cake, not on the intention of hijacking the market for existing houses, but on account of their high potential for market growth, primarily in the area of life insurance. With this in mind, market expansion is expected to move in the area of life insurance. When we look at how and if the countries in our region have privatised, I will give the parallel information as to how it was done in Slovenia and Croatia. Given that we are planning a privatisation where the entire market would be handed over to foreign insurance houses, and the information is that Italy's Delta Generals is fighting for the insurance market in Serbia, and the Unika, which bought the "Cepter Insurance", it is seen that this law prepares for the complete market, which is now controlled by social, or state insurance of 65 per cent, to be left to these foreign insurance companies. The game also includes "Viner Savings" and "Grave", Austrian insurance houses, and I will now give you parallel data with how many percent they participate in the countries in the environment, i.e. in Slovenia and Croatia, which have already passed this phase. Crocija Insurance controls 35 per cent of its market, while domestic insurance companies remain dominant on the insurance market itself. Of the 25 existing insurance companies, the first five control 72%, and foreign insurance companies entered the market in 1996, and of which the Alliance participates, which is a German insurance company, with only 8.5%, while other strong European insurance companies participate from two to four percent on their market. When we look at Slovenia, they have the largest insurance house Triglav, it is still state-owned and controls about 40% of the insurance market. Foreign insurance companies, such as Grave and Viner, have less than two percent of the market share. It is evident that the countries that are in the environment, i.e. in the region, have maintained the dominant position in the insurance market, where they control the majority of the share, which is now the case with us, and after the adoption of this law we will let foreign companies take over from us the complete insurance and insurance market, which is now in expansion. That is why the SRS asked this amendment, if it wants to participate in the privatisation process, to reduce their deadline from 31 December 2009, for two years, on 30 June 2008, so as not to gain even more financial power, if they already own it, to buy the market for our domestic insurance; to reduce their deadline so that they do not have room to take over the whole market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9623	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9624	Mr. Dulic, I hope you don't mind me making a little longer introduction before I get to article 18 on which I submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS. To begin with, I need to explain what is regulated by Article 18. It's a bill of law. This article changes practically the existing Article 235, which is the obligation to distinguish insurance and reinsurance operations, in the part of the transitional and final provisions of the basic text of the law. Article 235 reads "The Organisation for Insurance which, on the day of entry into force of this law", refers to the basic law, "is also authorised to carry out resecuritisation operations, it is required to distinguish insurance and resecuritisation operations by 31 December 2007. "It was written in late May 2004. So it can easily be concluded that for nearly two and a half years, this provision exists in that law, that the obligation to distinguish between insurance companies in these businesses is two and a half years, that this obligation is not finished with some. Now, where does the government intervene and what is she looking for? She asks that the deadline change in this article, i.e. the date until these jobs are due, so it will no longer be December 31st 2007, but December 31st 2009. So by 31 December 2009, you don't even think about the European Union. I don't know why you're talking – the European Union, the European Union. You're putting everything off somehow, and just to remind you, Serbia will never be an EU member. I want you to understand that. You can smile, you always smile when I talk, but after a while, dive and tears. So if the reason for this kind of change in the law is that we were offered a European perspective, as they said, and that's nothing, it's in the air some rot you need to catch and I'm literally using their terms -- Serbia needs to offer a European perspective. That means it's not a carrot anymore, it's a mirage, you see a carrot, so it's coming to you. It does not mean that all of you need to experience this mirage in the same way and to all of us collectively do something about it. The government is disgusted to reject this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party and here's what it says in its response – it came from an assessment... And we know they're misjudged, because in May 2004, they estimate that by the end of 2007, this distinction of these jobs must be completed, and now, at the end of 2007, they say -- we misjudged, and now they convince us that a good estimate is this new one. Thus, they estimate that the new deadline is sufficient to end the privatisation process of companies with social capital, since within the time limit provided for by the current law of the existing insurance companies which are in the privatisation process cannot be prepared for this separation. They say it's not good to separate this. That means it's not good to respect the law, because in the privatisation process we can sell up these two societies we have, because we're going to achieve a better price. So, the European path, the European threshold, and there's no WTO here, as they know to say when something changes, but let's see what the motives for this are. Can the privatisation process of these societies cover up clues? I can't. Do you know why they can't cover their tracks? Because even those who buy these societies will have a chance to see what this is all about and then they'll realize that just because of the commission, someone's wronged them badly. Not only them and employees of insurance companies, but all of us, all of Serbia's citizens are able to cheat. I don't think it's all right to change these deadlines. Why? Democracy has shown great efficiency, if you are unable to carry out these affairs in accounting, I recommend you to the police cordon. If you are not referred to how it is done, call the minister of local self-government, he is a lecturer with that Dragisic at the university, teaching security. Now it's clear to me why those local self-government ministers chose from a category of people who know very well what defense and security is. He had to be, by definition, a Field Marshal police officer. So you can freely take the police forces, the strong ones, that would distinguish insurance and resecuritisation jobs. Why do you need that? To see. What do you need to see? What you can't see at some point when these jobs get mixed up. It's not business. It's a matter of means. So, in all variations, and if these deadlines are extended, and if it starts with privatisation as you said 70%, and if it starts with what you said that more of the principle of reciprocity doesn't exist in international relations, all of your principles if we take and put on the table, in insurance you can't hide the clues. I have to explain here what my colleague Arsic tried to explain, so he went to another topic, much more important, and that's the material background of these changes. You have done very well by inserting this new member of 180, but you have only done so in the part of the material responsibility of the employees for the damage done by your work. You didn't release them from criminal responsibility. It will be found as an act and qualifications will be found, possibly by abuse of official position. Why am I saying this? Mladjan Dinkic was saved from it because the government, regardless of its fluid form, has torn the two states apart: the SRJ and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. That's where the federal court case was relocated. In that move, responsibility was lost. For what? For not implementing the decisions of the federal court. Under the new constitution, however, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia only changes its name, and cases cannot be lost. Here we have another situation: the clues exist, how the work permits have been taken away from some insurance companies, who did it, what he was doing, what are the results. And not only are there data on the extent of the damage, but with the name and last name who carried out the appropriate action, which is far more significant from the point of view of applying the applicable regulations. Mr. Cvetkovic, I need to inform you again in advance of some things, because when you're in the government with the DSS, then ignorance is a chronic condition. Try to avoid a public conflict between the finance ministry and the National Bank of Serbia. Try it. I'll tell you right now, it'll be an unsuccessful attempt. The conflict will be terrible from the public finances' point of view. Big fight. This country will shake for a few months. That's what I'm telling you in advance. Why? We're going to have to look at a little balance, and what was done in 2005 and 2006, as the decorated one became decorated, as he owed, how much was paid on behalf of these borrowings, etc. I don't argue that from time to time you're going to sell some of the property that's been created for decades in different ways; probably this yesterday's sale, if it gets stronger in 15 days, you're going to cover some holes, but what if that tire snaps again, and the volcano has no stain. Then what are you going to sell in a row? Then who are you going to provide commissions from? Are you going to suggest moving deadlines then? Let's move the deadline for another two years, for some obligation that should have been done immediately or in some way, and that deadline reflected your political position to love and love the EU, headed by Karl del Ponte. Think very carefully. Now you'd like 70% to sell, now you'd like the reciprocity to no longer exist, and that means -- the Serbian market, go ahead. Why? Cash is taken, cash is taken in insurance. Why did this have to belong to, in terms of supervision and all these jobs, to the National Bank of Serbia, when, by definition, they are administrative affairs belonging to the Ministry of Finance? Because the greater power is in charge of cash, the IMF, the World Bank and those other creditors who have more confidence in their encrypted exposure than the yellow exposure. You see, in advance, I warn you, you can pass on to your investor advice, when they're making these strategic studies, when they get involved in our affairs, be careful, because they're going to work here and unauthorized funds in that mutual clearing. Some of the first fighters of financial malfeasance and the financial success of the DOS are not satisfied with their position on the financial market. They won't be satisfied by giving them television, or letting them be in a bank, or letting this kid play with Alpha Bank. It's decorated. Look out, the big number's spinning in the head. I'm telling you, it's certainly going to be serious criminal disputes in the field of organized crime, with witnesses from associates testifying, as they do these days. I told Cedomir Jovanovic about that bag, and he's been gone for 15 days, you see for yourself. Fifteen days he can't enter the O.R. I'm informing you all in advance. Laufer's alive and hasn't retired yet, so you know. Laufer's alive, he's notifying everything, he knows everything. You know everything. So there's no excuse for this deadline to move. If this deadline is to be moved, then the National Bank of Serbia should be called to account, the Ministry of Finance in that previous meeting, what they have done to end the obligation under Article 235 within the time limit prescribed by law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why? New strategic positions, new card mixers, new agents to mediate, to assess. Just to remind you, when those four banks were destroyed, those banks had a report, Mr. Cvetkovic, some company called Deloitte and Touche. These reports showed positive business for these banks. What happened after two or three months? That same firm wrote a negative report. Do you see this decorated regretting shutting down the banks? He says, "What was your hardest job?" The bank's shutting down. Why? We didn't get an answer where that money from Cyprus came from. Where's the money from Cyprus? Batic tells one thing, Velija Ilic tells another, the decorated story of the third, Borka shut up. The fight is quiet because he knows, not where the money is, but he knows who moved the money and who's harassing and abusing them now, and Batic knows that line from The Hague that went through a Norwegian artist. So you know everything. Keep biting your nails.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9625	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9626	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, my colleague Aleksandar Martinovic, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment to Article 20(1) where the percentage of 70 is replaced by a percentage of 49. The legal solution so far has been to privatise the entire social capital, i.e. the state capital, and the current solution is 70, the proposal. The SRS, in line with its programme definition, has declared that it cannot privatise more than 49%, stressing that insurance is a strategic activity for this country. How inconsistencies you are in relation to the Privatisation Act, the solutions to privatization of the real and financial sector, prove your reasons for refusing this amendment. In its response to the amendment submitted, the government wrote that I am not bothering you with the whole explanation, but the bottom line is that it says that such a legal solution is agreed, in fact, to privatise insurance companies with a system law that regulates the sale of social and state capital, where that percentage is 70%. Serbia's government is a more important system law on privatisation, where the financial sector and insurance as part of it puts into the same level as the real sector, but only when it talks about privatisation. When it is due to submit a report to the public on how much commission it has charged to privatise the real and financial sector, it separates the two types of activity and gives us precise figures for the real sector, and for the financial sector there is no single figure of how much of this is privatised in the last year. There is a nice text part, but not a single figure, dear citizens, of 4 billion euros last year flows in as foreign direct investments, which you call in the translation of 3.2 billion sold, with the torment and years of acquired capital, shared, social and state. 3.2 billion were realised, out of which the real foreign direct investment, i.e. investment, is only 0.8 billion euros. Of these 3.2 billion, the real sector represents only a third. So the government is hiding us in a legally binding document called a memorandum of two-thirds of the billion euros that have arrived in this country. So, you're harmonising the Privatisation Act with the system law when you're not privatizing everything, only 70, but when it comes to placing legal responsibility for abuses, for extreme negligence and the neglect of employees, you're now detaching the financial sector. In the preceding Member of the law where it is said, Article 180, where, in the exercise of public authority, a state authority must be responsible, in accordance with Article 35(2), which states that everyone has the right to compensation for material or immaterial damage caused by an illegal or irregular operation by a state body, by a public authority, by an authority of an autonomous province or by a unit of local self-government. Now the National Bank and its employees have nothing to do with state authorities, public authorities, now they're something special. Now they do business and work in an extremely important area, which is important but not the way you represent it here. This so important activity, called the insurance sector within the financial sector, deserves the state to preserve its majority stake in the sector, which is the essence of this amendment. So the premium-based inflow is predictable. Life insurance is growing as a historic legal process, and the government, on behalf of the state, is denying that significant work that should also enable the development of society and new employment and new wages, on the basis of which people need to and support the development of life insurance. On what principles does this privatisation take place? On those principles that were drawn up in 2001 in that famous custody fund agreement, when it was dictated to you, quickly translated, order of steps, bodies that would implement privatisation and how it would be implemented. The problem is not that you are bad copyists, but that you do not have a relationship with the people who give you the mandate to enforce the law and implement the concept that is contained for you in what is called "the Washington Consensus", liberalisation, which means opening the market for all import goods. What's called privatisation, non-critical, is what it will bring, how many people will stay on the street and, after all, what many suffer the consequences, and that is artificially maintained stabilisation, that is, the course of the dinar. I would like the citizens to wonder what this high-mented "Vashington Consensus" policy brings to Serbia. Many called this tactics shock therapy, it was just a shock for us, not therapy. I will again mention Slovenians who have not allowed complete or non-critical liberalisation, whose consequences we have suffered from 2001 to today, and whose consequences we will yet suffer in this important area called insurance. All those who let domestic production... I say, production above all, yes and services, yes and trade chains, is necessary and necessary, but production must primarily exist in this country, and not only because it produces a certain kind of goods and services, but which allows the creation of income that allows people a basic human right, which is a decent life. This isn't a demagogy. This is the foundation of a scientific doctrine called the purpose of the economy. So, in order for someone to be able to exercise one of the basic human rights, which is that they have a sense of personal freedom, they should have money, money earned in a socially acceptable way, not commissions, not abuse of position, not crime, not arms smuggling, not drugs, not human trafficking, not prostitution, but in a socially acceptable way. When we ask you to do this as an opposition, it's not demagogy. You're right, like us, to make people expect us to be able to provide it. How do you provide them with that? By allowing the German state development bank KFW to place its products here and we get credit. I'm not spreading the subject. It's all the same. When this country takes credit from the German State Development Bank, in order to allegedly improve local heating infrastructure, we actually pay for the goods of German producers. If we were buying it on a regular market, we'd have discounts, and we'd pay them interest, which you've seen is at least twice as big as what the papers say. Which is worth what Mr. Jelasic says, I ask the banks to provide information on effective interest, not on the one that is written about in the contract, but on the one that really is paid by citizens when they take credit. This effective interest, I gave you an example in the afternoon debate, when a loan is taken from the Council of Europe's Development Bank, you claim that interest in the eurobor, which is 4.1 per month, is at a six-month level of 4.7, with a growth trend, and in fact, when you deliver a final account report, Mr. Minister, at nine million and 600,000 euros you pay the interest of 9.38% on the annual new one. It's not construction, it's not fiction, it's reality. You can't claim that these are subsidized loans or preferential, or interest that are lower and you can't claim to these citizens, no one forced them to go to the bank. We ask you not to do this kind of privatisation. We ask you not to owe the state the moment you have, according to your claim, such foreign exchange reserves are practically causing us a problem in the course of the dinar, which is overrated, a course of dinar by which people have no interest in exporting. But that's why this first element of liberalisation that you've agreed to is very well respected by such measures, which means that imports are very cheap and that you, most importantly, paint the future in this memo in a way that you predict the privatisation of public enterprises, NIS, EPS, JAT and public utility companies, what's left, and you promise us the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's just offensive. We created, we citizens and all of us systems, and we created a huge data bank called SDK, which you, by order of the foreigners, abolished, so that there would be no record of any macroeconomic indication that this country was managed from here. When you don't have the information, it controls whoever else has it. Who today has information about cash flows? The one holding the banks. Who owns the banks? We know how many there are, and almost 90% is in foreign ownership, and what's left, dear citizens, is written in a memorandum that we got from the Ministry of Finance, that the rest of the banks will be privatised. At the Commercial Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which says it is helping us, has already achieved significant participation and, according to its data, 24% of the total funds has already been entered right into the financial sector. Even the purchase of shares, which is unimaginable, is called credit assistance to this people. It has been defeated for me that 128 votes can make any argument irrelevant here. For me, that's no reason to stop pointing to all the devastating consequences of your actions and the laws you're proposing. It is totally illusory that you expect us not to submit to the amendment or not to take every opportunity to show that you are not guided by measures of economic policy the well-being of citizens and what means a better future for all of us, but simply to carry out the received orders. You're not ignorant, you know perfectly what economic theory is and what she thinks of privatisation. You know that Milton Friedman says – my biggest delusion is that privatisation solves everything, competition and co-operation, not privatisation, law respect and legal framework is what contributes to development. You know that, Mr. Minister, you and your associates, but it's not paid and it can't be charged by those you open the market to and prepare for the privatisation of this "family treasure" called the insurance company.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9627	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. Is anyone else answering about the amendment? I'm sorry, Mr. Rajko Baralic is answering for his word; I thought, Mrs. Tabakovic, we should move on to your amendment immediately. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the scene: Let me get the papers. ) According to this amendment, MP Rajko Baralic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9628	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, has been explaining the amendment to the amendments to the Insurance Act, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS, mentioned here several questions that I would like to comment on and contribute, if possible, to an argument she has offered as an explanation of the amendments she has tabled. This is where the shock therapy was mentioned. I would like to remind myself, when this term first appeared in our country, who is a protagonist and for whose interests the shock therapy and who the exhibits of that direction in the economy were in Serbia at the time and who is in Serbia today conducting this policy. Jeffrey Saks was led by a team tasked with coming up with a relatively reliable way of liberalising the markets of certain states, financially and each other. So either by producing political elites that become power after that, they carry out certain tasks in politics and in the economy, or they bomb them, or they introduce economic sanctions or do something else. A mixed model was applied in Serbia: therefore, bombing, sanctions and recruitment of several dozen exhibits of this policy. The attack was to absolutely liberalize everyone in Serbia, to leave you without a coat on a big cold and to make you endure and yet to say that you are not cold. Mr. Bozidar Djelic, I will remind you, is one of the young economists who was on this team. I remind you that Mr Djelic was the first finance minister after 5 October and that, together with eight ministers in the government, he was staffed not on the basis of the DOS staff committee's solution, and I call on people who have done so to disprove it, but they were staffed from somewhere, as well as Mrs Kori Udovicki later, as others. We've got that trend today. So there's a number of important state places that are covered by being decided by someone outside this country. Why is this important? Because the concept of a liberal economy is something that has provided several important issues for them here. One of them is that our country wide opens the door to everything we call foreign goods, influence, capital, etc., and that there is no mechanism here that could prevent anything that existed here as authentic production, our banks, our insurance companies, etc. We're here to discuss the consequences. The causes of what I'm talking about are elsewhere. They represent someone's interests, which here in one part of the political parties today have their own exhibits and have it as an official state programme that is being implemented through measures of economic policy by the Serbian Government today in Serbia, with negative consequences that are felt on the street every day, with the largest number of Serbian citizens who have been brought into the situation that they generally don't decide anything, that they have no place to work, or that they can't accept pay where they work, if they're lucky enough to be employed. It's actually liberalisation. The concept of a liberal economy advocates that the market regulates everything, and if the market is a regulator of everything, and that means that it ceases to exist what some of you call a social state, then that means that whoever is poor must be even poorer, that the few dozen people who are rich can multiply their wealth daily, monthly or annually to the level that we cannot or can't monitor and comment on, or that we have enough information about it, and that in Serbia, you have almost 30% of the people who are unemployed, so one of the highest unemployment rates in Europe, that you have several hundred thousand employees who are employed and do not receive any pay, that you have several hundred thousand workers in privatised companies who do not exercise any of the rights guaranteed by their privatisation contract. Let me mention one of those companies, it's a company of '7. July the bullet. According to the Privatisation Act, the company was bought by a certain Mr. Bogdan Aleksic. He lost this company in a regular court procedure a few days ago, actually 18. 10, all personal documents of all employees in '7. They found themselves in the street. So people took this company's paperwork to the street because they don't want to have a reminder of the people who built the company. So that's the state we live in. With this concept, we are plowing and pushing for a different concept, which I hope is recognised by the citizens of Serbia today, because it cannot be that this is good. It can't be normal for someone to be able to give you an irreplaceable document, like a work book, take it out on the street, that nobody knows anything about it, that you can't exercise any of the rights that are exercised on the basis of the workbook records and that's why no one's answering. We call upon those who are responsible to establish how this may have happened, who is responsible for the personal documents of several hundred people on the street and to take them as they arrive, and some of this has disappeared in an unknown direction. There's a lot of open questions here. Let's keep opening, and let's close it in elections that, as I think, come soon at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9629	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9630	I have no intention of taking over my colleague Krasic's pay phone, but I don't owe everyone who's tired of listening today an apology because I owe it to the citizens of Serbia to say, on behalf of the SRS, all the devastating consequences of the policy this government is conducting. This is not my favorite topic, but the essence of this amendment is one of the essential reasons for policy-making for one significant part of the ruling coalition. Article 21 contains a solution whereby charging the commission as a reward for success in the privatisation process is also taken over in the area of privatisation of insurance companies. Instead of eliminating and calculating negative phenomena, the current government is transferring the practice of privatising companies and banks in privatising insurance companies. However, the fact that I said that greed and commission is a way of life, which some are not ashamed of, is their basic motive for work, is something that, whether someone likes it or not, the West is the international community, and it is with joy that all those who at that time represented the ruling elite after October 5th. Many times mentioned, and it won't be enough until you have abolished the practice of taking a commission as a reward for the damage you do to citizens and society, I will repeat to you, the international contract no. 8. published on 28 September 2001, which reads on page 49: The Agency will hire, meaning, the World Bank, or the Trust Fund, was called, it was a grant agreement from the Trust Fund, a technical assistance project for the development of the private sector, where you have been dictated, and you have written and taken over in long-term practice, that the Agency will hire consultants, such as financial consultants and investment banks or other qualified agents, are once called sales agents, who will assist the Ministry and the Privatisation Agency in preparing documentation for companies from the privatisation list. Let's freshen up the memory. In fact, the privatisation list was a list of 80 strategic enterprises, which was then "Deloitte and Touche", in which our colleague Aleksandar Vlahovic, then also a minister, means that the privatisation list is actually a list of strategic enterprises, which includes conducting a tender procedure for these companies on behalf of the Privatisation Agency. Agents will be selected in accordance with the rules of Appendix 3 which says that even when you intend to choose someone you cannot decide for yourself, you have to ask the bank who it will be. He says the cost of hiring these agents can be financed from a donation. It's 2001. This is the principle on which drug addicts, or commission addicts, are created: first lets you take the commission out of donation, until they get used to you, and then you take it from the people, because it's the only source. The compensation for success in the privatisation process, if such success is achieved, will be paid out of the funds achieved by the sale of enterprises and will not be financed from donations. For a long time, dear citizens, we had a dilemma as to who this sales agent is who, by precise calculation, was looking at everything that was privatized in the meantime, charged, and didn't go into the budget... Until it's completely accidental for us at one of the previous sessions, and to my question (I expect a written answer, Mr. Minister, I'm not satisfied with your oral response), he said it was actually the Privatisation Agency. Dear citizens, what does that mean? If it is privatised, according to the report delivered to us in the memorandum, Mr. Minister, since 2002, this international contract was delivered in September, according to which laws were issued, until then you were not allowed to privatise anything, so from the adoption of this international contract until 9 September 2007, according to your data, in the real sector, it means businesses, it has sold 2.521,500,000 euros. Dear citizens, I'd like to tell you right now, you're multiplying by 5%, because that's how much the Bugalo has ordered to take a commission. I'm not sure that's the basis, Minister. Something I don't trust you with -- one budget, another, surplus, deficit. It says: sales price. Is there anyone in this country who can safely say what 5% of these prices are separate from the Privatisation Agency, as a reward for the procedure, if the budget, or the citizens of Serbia, or the MPs, who, on behalf of the people, need to see and know, do not know? So when all the costs of advertising, prospectus, advertising, legal, financial and all the other advisors are denied, then the Agency keeps 5% to itself, and only then does the rest of the money go into the budget. Whether those 5% are accounted for at that agreed price, and then these costs are denied, it doesn't matter, Mr. Minister. Net and gross, and kids know what the difference is. We all know citizens, when you cut our taxes, what is the difference; we know when we receive salaries what gross and net account means. What base did 5% of the commissions go to here? And how much money is that? So, for the companies sold, not the ones where the contracts are broken, failed privatisation, that's a special story, for the companies sold, if we take this number, and I'm not sure it's true, it's 126 million euros, without banks. We are now coming to the field of insurance companies, banks and deposit insurance agencies, as is now called another agency, which is the one for the resolution of banks, which we have never received in public, nor in front of MPs. What about bank bankruptcy? Why do they thank you for your failures? You're asking us to tell you what's going on with the banking system. To whom are the spaces, buildings, art paintings and everything else the most exclusive locations? What is the role of government officials, Nikola Zivanovic, Nik Jovanovic, Mr Dinkic and the crew around him? He doesn't do it alone. Dinkic wouldn't be a coalition partner if he didn't have his friends in one of the DS wings. Dear citizens, I believe that my colleagues from the DS and most of my colleagues are more difficult than I am when I say this, because for me, it's the opposing political party, with other ideology and by criticising their actions, making the clear difference that citizens know, but what do those who have to do red on behalf of those who did this, on behalf of those who want to be, as someone wisely said, the owners of Serbia, are now the authorities, and one day they will be the owners of Serbia? The Bank Rehabilitation Agency had the most interesting management boards, whose personal structure I'm not going to deal with, other bodies are involved. I don't want to mention the Negativity of Kolesar and the others. I am an MP who here, as a member of the legislative body, asks you whether it is possible, and if it was possible then, not to let it be possible today to pass a law that will deliberately act as a member of the Agency, a foggy law on bankruptcy and the extraction of the Agency's budget coverage, out of the public eye, be possible for these malversions to be done and to continue by privatising insurance companies. When the agencies were set up, as ordered by the parties, three funding options were provided: one were donations, contributions and the other; the other, revenues made by the exercise of activity and the third -- other sources in accordance with the law. The Agency was consciously pulled under the hands of the state, so that today it might be a question of who will return some of the goods to the former owners if the Agency sold the property on behalf of the state, so we already have a problem that yet the unofficial buyer says "no, that's not my job", and Mrs. Director of the Agency says "no, that's the owner's problem". It's intent, it's not ignorance. By passing laws in which it is possible that an agency that is not under the auspices of the state may be the general owner of state property, because it signs contracts for the sale of enterprises, and here are insurance companies, now the Agency for Rehabilitation, you simply enter into the elemental logic and intelligence of citizens. How is it possible for someone to get billions of euros in their hands, to decide through sales, to keep the fees on which I put this amendment without having to account for anyone? Mr. Minister, when I called you for this in one of the speakers' shows, you said you were looking for a report through the Finance Committee, so let them tell you. Jorvanka Tabakovic, a member of the SRS, does not need a report, needs citizens of Serbia. This is not my personal curiosity, this is the fate of the citizens of Serbia, because I cannot make one rich without the other being poor. It's not funny, Mr. Minister. This is a regulation from the time you worked in a house that was given the right to receive an assessment, Mr. Vlahovic worked at "Deloitte and Touche", and this later became an integral part of this international agreement, companies where property transformation is carried out under a special programme. This special programme, gentlemen and fellow citizens, is a programme that has drawn up the commission as a way of life, as a sense of politics. It doesn't matter what the debate on insurance companies goes through. The important thing is that there is no perfect robbery and that not everything has to be a robbery, in that most pervasive and naked sight. The way some laws were passed, how they were applied... There's no nicer word, Minister, I'd like to say it more gently, but it can't; it couldn't be rich in one layer of people, so today you're covering only behind the middle class, to hide that team of extremely powerful people who now have the pretense to deal with politics. It's the only thing you're going to fight for, until the citizens open their eyes and realize that I'm not managed by curiosity or curiosity, or boredom, by God's hatred, which is not unique to Serbian radicals, I'm being handled by the future of my neighbors, friends, children and all of us sitting here, in the moment that you, as Verica said, are thinking about where you drop and pour into some pocket of beautiful and lucrative business and valorizing the power and influence you've gained from that place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9631	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9632	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the rejection of this amendment, it is said that the privatisation process implies the precise actions and engagement of institutions and experts, and this is in line with the system law governing the sale of state and social capital. That sounds nice, but it's not exactly how it's done. It is an example of privatising "The Slave Houses of Belgrade". I would like to inform the public and you, Mr. Minister, that the Restitution Network has addressed the Republic Public Attorney's Office that the privatisation must be exempt from the property that is nationalized and located on Prince Michael's 5th Street. In addition to the Restitution Network, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office addressed the Municipality of Stari Grad's Public Defence and then the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. Acting on these talks, the Republic Public Attorney's Office sent a letter to the Privatisation Agency, which says the following – a nationalised asset for which no compensation is paid cannot be considered as property of the benefitable legal person, but rather by the property of the Republic of Serbia, and cannot be sold as a legal entity. Mr. Minister, these are facts. An easy explanation of the head or director of the Privatisation Agency that the new owner will deal with the return of the seized property is a story for small children. The new owner already said he wouldn't do it. There's another little pisentery. The successor of the owner of the nationalised property Mr. Mladen Komadinic filed on October 3rd a lawsuit to the Trade Court in Belgrade asking for a temporary measure, asking for the exception of the building in Knez Mihailovo. Here we have an incredible precedent in the caselaw here, which best confirms that the judiciary today is, unfortunately, the most ordinary service for the execution of demands and the order of the executive authority. Please pay attention to what's been going on and who owns it. Now I'm going to tell you who's the new owner. So, on October 25th, five days ago, the Belgrade Trade Court adopted a provisional measure and prohibits the facility in Prince Michael from being subject to privatisation. On the next day (see, the next day, so the most effective judiciary under the sky is not doing so) is abolished by the High Court of Commerce that provisional measure 26.10. So, the Government of the Eye, the Higher Trade Court jumps. There is room for this privatisation. To remind me of those demands of stockholders who, of course, are all ignored, because someone's got an eye for taking the Slave House and selling, and only these days comes the story, Minister, which you're going to have to give us very interesting answers and because of your involvement in that Waterwater story. That's what we'll talk about. It'll be the bestseller of the next few days. So, the requirements of small shareholders have been forgotten, it is forgotten how much business space, warehouses, land, exclusive locations in many cities in Serbia are incomparably more than what is boasted to be world sales, etc. It's something that preceded what was so nice about Hayat, on a high level. You know, when there's some manipulation and malfeasance, it's got to have one snobic ambience. But the new owner of 66.67% is "Marfin Investment Group". Now let me explain to you who the "Marphin Investment Group" is. (President: Mr Batic, before you begin to explain, stick to the agenda, you have made a great buckle at the beginning with it, but it is mine to warn you to return to the agenda point. Mr. President, please don't interrupt me. I explained that this amendment was rejected for the reason that the government said that the privatisation process implies the precisely established actions and the engagement of institutions and experts, and that this is in line with the system law governing the sale of social and state capital. This was government capital, and it wasn't slave houses' capital, they were users. That's what I'm explaining. I also explain that it is not true, it is in principle and interpreting the legal norm, but in practice it is not exactly how it is done, and it is quite in line with the subject and point of the agenda. I don't want to talk about it anymore, but you interrupted me when I wanted to explain who the "Marphin Investment Group" was. So it's the same firm that bought the Laiki Bank. You know who Laiki Bank is? "Sippers popular bank". And you know who money laundering went through and carrying money in sacks of various criminals and scum out of here, money robbed by Serbian citizens? Through the company "Antexol" and "Bruncort" at the Cypruss popular bank. Who organized it? Tasos Papadopoulos, the current president of Cyprus. So consider whether the foreign minister's random visit to a Cypriot counterpart is being done today and tomorrow. So the Cypruss popular bank had its own branch, called the European Popular Bank, in Athens. All the money that went to Belgrade-Larnaka in their sacks and bags went back to the Sypers popular bank branch, called the European Popular Bank, in Athens and those phantom of Browncourt and Antexol companies were used for these things. I'm asking the finance minister if our money that was taken from here and robbed through the Cyprus popular banks has now returned through her offshore company Browncourt and Antexol, she was later named Laiki, and then bought by the Marfin Investment Group. So, it's this vicious circle, and see if there's a company called Hemslaid and its owner, Milorad Miskovic, and see today on site B92 whether the boss, I don't know what, these Delta companies, or Milorad Miskovic, is banned from entering the United States and why. Open site B92 today. You'll have the whole lab, so I don't talk about it today. Of course, it will be a theme for Mladjan Dinkic as well. And, what Honorable colleague Jorgenka Tabakovic said, and it concerns the way the area of the payment service was kidnapped, that is, the former SDK to form the National Savings Centre, in order to sell the National Savings Bank, in order to rob the National Savings Bank... Mr. Matić, come out and explain what year. What kind of stupid illusion is that? (President: Mr. Batic, don't let them provoke you. Here you go. Please don't throw it away. Mr. President, do you believe Mr. Matic can provoke me? He serves me for fun. So, about these malfeasances, maybe a lot of things can be said by Mrs Olivera Ilincic, who is very respectable and expert in this. I call on her to explain the malversions of Mladjan Dinkic, but that will be a topic for another story when the interior minister is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9633	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9634	I was so surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the government decided that this amendment I filed on behalf of the SRS would refuse. Let's pick up where Mr. Batic left off. A few months ago, when the budget and some financial laws were on the agenda, I said from this rumor -- after the "bulldozer of revolution" of the entire DOS network of officials went to Cyprus to see if it was $4.5 billion. There went then Police Minister Mihajlovic, found them and stayed there; Mr Batic went, saw that they were there and stayed there; Velja Ilic went, saw that they were there and stayed there; Dinkic went, saw that they were there, but they were no longer there. Just what Mr Batic said, these couples are now returning through various exotic islands, so through some newly formed companies, formed by some railway stations in Vienna, etc., they come and buy Serbia. What Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic said, they are now in power, rule Serbia, and wants to be the owners of Serbia. Even at the time you invented these famous agencies, I pointed out some devastating consequences of these agencies, their pyramidal capacity to have someone sitting at the top of the agency, and a whole pyramid formed parallel to the government, to the lowest organisational structure in society, so if you have a head of the agency, you'll have some little boss in the local community. It's an amazing system, that after all those who carry a party book are in one of these ruling parties. After the revolution was taken revolutionaryly, and the revolutionary spoils understood as well, and the greatest prey is the privatisation of social and state property. The SRS advocates that when privatising a strategic branch, they are left to the state, namely to privatise 49% and 51%, so-called. Gold action, remains state. First of all, NIS, EPS and, let's say, these insurance companies that are state-owned. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment to Article 20, where you predicted that 70% of insurance companies would be sold. He said in his amendment that it should sell 49% and 51% to remain state-owned. By writing my amendment, I have just come to the amendment handed over by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, I asked that Article 23 be amended and that Article 243d in this bill be deleted. The explanation is that the amendment has been submitted to comply with the amendment to Article 20. It's a bill of law. Article 243d, which I asked to delete, reads: "The funds achieved by the sale of capital, after the settlement of the costs in accordance with Article 243v position 2 of this law and the allocation of 10% of the purchase price achieved for the needs of the guaranteed insurance fund, is paid by the Agency at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget. "I asked for it to stay the way it was in the old part of the law, with a change compared to Article 20 whose amendment, more specifically, was requested by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. In this case, Article 243d is absolutely unnecessary. Let's go back to what this is all about, in fact, which is why the Privatisation Agency, this screaming agency that doesn't answer to the state for its jobs and charges 5% of the commission... Let me remind you, one of the officials in that agency, that is, the director was a minister in his time, one of the officials in that agency is Mr. Labus' daughter. The privatisation agency, we heard, has literally drawn about 120m euros from the privatisations made so far from the Serbian state budget based on these 5% and is available at its discretion. Let me remind you, it's the same privatisation agency I spoke of for this assembly speaker four months ago, in which two laptops containing NIS and EPS data were stolen, complete data. Why do you think those two laptops, which cost about 40,000 dinars, were stolen? You don't understand, you're at the level of a ganglomary nervous system, I'm not talking to you. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, that's why the citizens of Serbia, because everything needed to be learned before privatisation is there. According to the same system under which insurance companies are privatised, privatisation has been prepared for both NIS and EPS. One of the 4.5 billion dollars that Mladjan Dinkic of Cyprus has passed on to the Virgin, Sešeljska and I don't know which islands, the Caymans, and from there through small collectives or whatever they are called, are slowly entering Serbia... With these money, the future owners of Serbia will buy everything that is right in Serbia, buy these strategic houses at the end and buy Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9635	Replica, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9636	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my name has been mentioned that I was trying to expose the mystery of taking our money to Cyprus. I was actually going there, but at the time I didn't have any concrete facts, cards and knowledge, except for the obvious suspicion that it was a multimillion or fraud of hundreds of millions or a few billion. There, I was supported by the Cypriot opposition, part of the Cypriot media, but concrete knowledge of all transactions on the link between Serbia - Cyprus is coming through The Hague tribunal on November 19th, 2003, when the government had already fallen and this was the Ministry of Justice and the Republic Prosecutor's Office. I thought it was normal for these things to be handled by the prosecution, and then, if necessary, let international legal aid go through the Justice Department. The prosecution kept quiet, so I, about four or five months after, on 19 May 2004, re-routed five-data kits, in front of the cameras, wanted to provoke the prosecution to react to where our billions had disappeared, billions robbed by the citizens of this country. The prosecution was still silent. I no longer had any chance, except to personally file a criminal charges against those who treated that money and against those led by Mladjan Dinkic, who did not want to return them, but then special prosecutor for organised crime Mr. Slobodan Radovanovic promised to act urgently on the case. Today, I had a second chance to meet Mr. Radovanovic, now v.d. I took the opportunity to ask him what's going on with the case - the Cyprus money. He told me he was working on it and that his successor would deal with it. As for what Mr. Matic objected and made an adjudication when the National Savings Bank was privatised, probably alluding to the time I was part of the government of Zoran Djindjic, then the National Savings Centre was formed and then Mladjan Dinkic explained to Zoran Djindjic that four major state banks had failed, that they were dinosaurs that could no longer function, that they should be shut down and that one respectable, powerful and strong state bank should be formed, and even given her a pompous name - National Savings. That's what we all remember, we can't lie about what happened in the past. Even at the beginning, Zoran Djindjic fell for the fraud of Mladjan Dinkic. You remember he also invested some symbolic money in the National Savings Bank. In time, it turned out to be the private bank of friends of Mladjan Dinkic, some of the tycoons here, headed by Vojin Lazarevic, and all of this was not during the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, but at the time of the previous government. How was the privatisation? People who were shareholders of Euroaxis Bank, and earlier Vexim Banks in Moscow, take credit in that bank, buy National Savings, the National Savings Bank sells to the Greeks for eight or nine times more expensive, and they repay the loan and put all the money in their pocket. It's a story about the National Savings Bank, and it has nothing to do with the government of Zoran Djindjic and no one but Mladjan Dinkic and his friends, but it will all come to order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9637	According to the amendment, MP Zdravko Topalovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to remind you of some more things. When there was a principle debate, and during today, you had the opportunity to hear some MPs, above all I mean a colleague from New Serbia who has been so fanatically defending the amendments and additions of the Insurance Act, even directly accusing part of the SRS MPs of not wanting to change, the improvement of our younger generations. Unfortunately, I have to call it nonsense now, and I'll tell you why. I will return to the Business Society Act, Article 3 paragraph 2: the branch is an organisational part of a company that has no legal personality and is registered in countries where it comes from. You see, in connection with this amendment, Mr. Momir Markovic, you gave an explanation that ten percent of the funds are being allocated to the guarantee fund. I think it's much smarter and much better to oblige foreign insurance companies to match their assets. You mentioned reciprocity here. If it's a WTO request, if it's their request to enter, then I'd understand. We're creating that five-year vacuum I'm talking about and in which insurance companies, or branches of insurance companies, will have no responsibility here. I'd like to tell you more about the five-year delay and the creation of that vacuum and the reciprocity that denies the WTO principle, and that's an example of where you can apply reciprocity. I can't see one of Serbia's citizens who's going to have a "Croat Insurance" policy or "Triglav Insurance" policy, and I mentioned why. We can apply this reciprocity, so it comes from our enemy states, I also said the reasons, because Croatia occupied the Republic of Serbia, committed genocide, while Slovenia openly advocates Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I'm going to give you another argument: both "Croation Insurance" and "Triglag Insurance" are not some house with a renaissance, unlike some other insurance companies that enter our market. You must note that they behave more responsibly on our market. Here's what I suggested, I mentioned how the problem was arranged in Austria, where insurance companies invest in so-called premiums. non-risk funds, in real estate, as high as 20 percent, in traffic infrastructure. It wouldn't hurt our head today because of foreign concessionaries for Horgos-Požega and Vela's journey would not, at least in our media, be a national hero, but it would be settled that way. As far as privatisation is concerned, I expected a debate between MPs of the position, specifically New Serbia and the DSS, as I called them yesterday to declare the percentage of privatisation. They talk so much that some national option, however, I don't see any of it, because they argue that our insurance companies with 70 percent of the capital go into the hands of foreign insurance companies, specifically with these limits. I claim that these insurance companies would behave much more responsibly if only 49% were privatised, that the state had managed 51%. This would create a healthy ambiance of competition, and this way, if insurance companies swallow ours, they will literally be able to do whatever they want on our market. I urge you to consider the SRS amendments well. A colleague spoke yesterday and today that we only mentioned deleting members. You heard colleague Jorgenko Tabaković – that the consequences would not be much more devastating in our country's financial system, we have proposed to delete certain members, although some of these amendments, may say, deny the entire Insurance Act. You have time, we don't see why this law is passed by emergency procedure, especially since the deadline for joining the WTO is five years from the date of accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9639	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Vlado Sekulić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9640	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. My amendment reads, "Article 25 is deleted." The reasons are that the amendment has been submitted to comply with the amendments to Articles 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. To make it clear to everyone, Article 25 is a member who we can say sublimates all of this and regulates this law. Otherwise, Article 25 reads: "Article 25. 1st and 2nd of this law shall apply at the end of five years from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the WTO and the provisions of Article 3 of Article 10(2) and Article 13(2) of this Act from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the WTO. "So this is a member who regulates the first member, second member, third member, tenth member and Article 13(2). I got a reason why the amendment was rejected. The explanation puts it this way: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provisions of Article 25 are laid down. The draft law concerns the application of Articles 1 and 2. The draft law, and as amendments to those articles are not accepted, has no basis for accepting this amendment. "In order to make it clear to everyone, Article 1 regulates a society that carries out the work of insurance. My predecessor, counterpart Zdravko Topalović, said that this is a discrepancy, according to us from the SRS, I think of this section on the branch, because there is no clear picture of whether it is in conflict with insurance companies, and the activity of insurance companies carried out by the insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity, as well as a branch of a foreign insurance company authorised by the competent authority to carry out that activity. I believe that Article 1 is contrary to the Business Society Act, because you are predicting the possibility that branches of foreign insurance companies, with the permission of the competent authority, which is in this case the National Bank of Serbia, are carrying out an insurance activity. The application is related to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation, with a five-year deadline for coordination. I find this extremely illogical. Now we're going to apply something, and we're going to coordinate with the World Trade Organisation, and if we come in one day, and you're already talking for 7 years, in any organization, and if we go into the World Trade Organization, then it's going to be a five-year period, and then what you're proposing is going to apply. It's illogical and it's inadmissible, that rush and your desire, it's literally a prelude to think it's premature. What we're doing is premature, and it's always that explanation that we listen to whenever a law was, from CEFTA and beyond, that this is another springboard, another obstacle to join the EU, we have to fulfill it, we have to do it, we have to do it. In my opinion, this is, on the basis of Article 1, and it is also seen in Article 2, in which my colleague Mirovic submitted the amendment, another way to introduce foreign insurance companies on our Serbian territory. Because they're much easier here, they won't fit much with their own capital. If foreign insurance houses come, and their insolvency is threatened and their credits are not sanctioned, you will not be able to sanction them, nor will you be able to damage citizens or companies that are secured through these foreign companies, because they are registered under some law on economic activities in their own countries. What's still said is why don't you wait a minute. And the coincidence is that suddenly a space is being created for foreign insurance houses. I'm going to set an example, so someone can get it wrong, but here's what smaller insurance companies do, when Mrs. Milka Forcan from Delta Company said that they are currently (and that was on TV Avala and is related to this topic) ready to sell their segment of the corporation that carries out the insurance business and which brings an extremely large profit. She said, I can't exactly quote her 100 percent, that they're not sure that they're going to be able to have an even longer period of time to be a leader on the domestic market. If Delta Company is concerned and if they think that over a longer period of time they will not be able to be a leader in this market, then the question is why is this law coming at this moment and whether someone has some better information than we MPs here, so people are willing to see what happens when foreign insurance companies come, so they themselves will have to withdraw. Then you can imagine these smaller insurance companies, which are my predecessors from the SRS, what will only happen to them, to their employees, if they're stock companies then with their shareholders and their shares, incomes, dividends. I'm telling you, it's a terrible coincidence, because right now that story is moving in with us in the congregation and there's talk about other things here. Are we late for information, or have some had faster information than we are, or have people predicted, Mr. Minister, perhaps better than you, what will happen on this market, so they rushed to sell their shares? I note, an extremely large profit is made here. When someone with a big profit sells all this, then you can imagine our companies. Or is this about showing up, as you say, that competition would be created, and everything else, if I hadn't come back, because my colleagues had elaborated on insurance and everything else... It means to create competition on this market as far as insurance companies are concerned. This is something that will introduce foreign companies again on the side, our market is good, and then we will shut down these domestic insurance companies; whoever sells in time their companies and actions -- sold out, and these companies that need to be privatized, they will fall to low branches and there will be very small actions. I saw there that you put in the proposal that it would pay off and the stock would split and it wouldn't go to that old system. It is predicted that it will not go to the old action-sharing system. The question arises whether these employees who work in insurance companies will be better off if they get actions or if they get severance fees, so these new owners and fire workers will be able to do better if they get what they want. Action is something that's variable. They have nominal value, and what's the main value, that's market value. So when the stock market determines what market value our employees in these insurance companies, which you will privatise and which will shut down these foreign companies, can happen because there will be no demand for their actions on the market. I would like to refer to Article 25, which regulates the provisions of Article 3 which excludes reciprocity as a condition for the establishment of an insurance company and other surveillance entities, as well as to obtain a licence to carry out insurance interventions. Why are we in such a hurry and abolishing the principle of reciprocity and reciprocity if we're only going to apply something for five years, provided we enter the World Trade Organization? If we take an example of entering the World Trade Organization in five years, and that's optimistic thinking, then in 10 years we'll be applying this, and in 10 years, it'll be gone completely... I'm telling you, it'll happen in ten years, it's hasty. As for the elimination of reciprocity and reciprocity, I would like you, Mr. Minister, to come out and explain what will happen when the reciprocity is lifted. I believe that the elimination of reciprocity is at the expense of the Serbian economy and the damage to Serbian insurance companies. Why? We are constantly coordinating towards Europe and the World Trade Organisation. They don't want us, and we keep coordinating to them and to our harm. In ten years who lives, who dies, Mr. Minister, what happens. This is a law that would go now and something that's a completely illogical being to consider in five, ten years and the question is whether it's going to apply at all. What my colleagues have said, which is regulated by Article 25, those are members of Article 10 and 13, is that again in Article 13(2), the December regulation of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the WTO, namely the abolition of reciprocity and reciprocity. It's coming off again. The main item here is getting into the WTO and eliminating reciprocity and reciprocity. You were afraid maybe some of our insurance companies might be on the foreign market and place their capital, and they're dealing with this activity. The problem of prematureity is the main problem that we've all concluded here and through exposure. The amendments to the SRS are good, although many feel that this is wrong - it is deleted. Something that's not good has to be erased. It's better to erase it now than to have the consequences and the consequences become greater later. I can understand you, that you have to explain your changes and problems, but it will happen that many of our employees will stay, because the work of smaller insurance companies is not allowed anymore, and that people who work under a contract of work, which they have done so far, are now being banned and automatically and the social part is being threatened and people won't be able to work, but they will be allowed foreign corporations to enter and set the rules of the game. Please, Mr. Minister, since this is the last amendment, I would like you to come out and explain to us from your point of view the principle of reciprocity and why you are constantly insisting on its abolition; why are we in a hurry to enter the WTO when you see yourself through this law, if we enter, and then we will apply it for five years afterwards. And this is a little bit of a symptom to me, Mr. Minister, this statement that someone, perhaps now the strongest, insurance company on Serbian territory, is afraid for some period that is coming to us now. If you're being directed, you might know, and don't tell me now it's their house policy. It's a bit symptomatic that just when these laws are passed, someone is selling their shares and someone's giving up something that's making him a huge profit. As a minister and economist, you know that no one gives up anything that brings him profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9641	Thank you, colleague Seculic. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does Minister Cvetkovic's representative want a word? By amendment? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9642	Mr. Chairman, I have to take advantage of the opportunity and time left for the SRS parliamentary group since when I gave an explanation for my amendment to Article 12, the minister was not present. So, please, Minister, use the remaining time of today's session and explain the terms set out in Article. 5, 6 and 12, and these are words - open or implemented procedures. The two words and these two terms are the main items of these amendments and additions to the Law, which allow the cleaning of space and tycounisation in Serbia. Please, for the sake of information to the citizens of Serbia, give an explanation of what the open procedure means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9643	Thank you. Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, the word has been made by Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9644	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your participation in this debate and for the oral contributions you have made. Let me give you some answers and comments on what was heard about the law. First of all, I'd like to say that there was one objection that was not directly related to the law, referring to the Memorandum, so I'd like to start from it, not so much to answer, but more to point to one fundamental difference. Thus, it may result in certain misunderstandings. According to the Memorandum, it notes that the strategy to continue is intensifying the privatisation of social property, as well as encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Since an objection to these two positions has been made, I suppose the author of the remark expected the contrary, it means that the Memorandum says that the strategy will be to stop privatising social property and not support small enterprises, but large social enterprises. Of course, this attitude is completely legitimate, this second one, but it's not the position of this government and I think the difference between these two views is basically the view and some kind of difference in approach to economic policy. Because of that, many of the remarks made from the point of view that it is necessary to support a socialist, not as socialistic as to say social property, I will not give answers. The other thing I wanted to say is that during the debate in several mosses, by listing different figures etc., there may be some confusion among those who listen, because at the same level there have been talk of different types of privatisation, of different types of bankruptcy, of different types of commission, of agencies, so I feel the need for those who want to understand what it was about to give opinions about what it was really about. So all the stories concerning the Privatisation Agency from the point of view of this debate are completely irrelevant. All the stories relating to the commission, 5%, calculations, billions of euros times 5%, hundreds of millions, are also entirely irrelevant for this debate. All stories relating to efficiency, less or more, bankruptcy proceedings, which we had the opportunity to see, for this story and for this law are completely irrelevant. We, therefore, have here an agency now called the Deposit Insurance Agency. The agency was tasked, among other things, with the privatisation of the financial sector, where there remained a total of six, to say, entities, four of which are large and three small, and two insurance companies, one of which is only one in the majority of social property. So that's what we're talking about and that's what this law regulates and that's what needs to be concentrated on if the goal is to talk materially about what's on the agenda. As for those figures that are mentioned here, since it's a high-level home that has the right to know everything he wants, I'd like to refer to those interested MPs to ask whatever questions they want to the Agency, so they'll find out how many commissions are charged, how many of these, how many of these. The agency that this is about is not charged yet. So this creates a legal basis for it to be even and to be in the same position as this other agency that was mentioned here more often. Here it is given the right of the minister to determine what percentage it will be, and of course, it will only apply to these six entities, which I was just talking about. Of course, this commission is not about individuals, it's about the institution. So, that institution has some of its own costs to cover, either from the budget by direct giving or from the transaction. This is where the proposal was made to make it a transaction. Now I would refer to these questions that were concrete. First of all, about the issue of mutuality, what happens when reciprocity is cast out, etc. If you look at the exact text of Article 25, it clearly states what is going on. So, the fact that the word reciprocity is being thrown out of the corresponding article, in relation to Article 25, approximately legal terms, means the following -- and if we now throw it out, that discard, so to speak, will have its effect only five years after entering the World Trade Organisation, and until that moment, the wording that is now in the Law is important. So there's no interspace with an unsolved situation, there's no confusion, there's no empty space without a solution. Finally, I would like to in some way encourage Members to vote in favour of this law, and even those who had critical references to it, for the reason that I want to inform you that the text of this law has been arranged with great engagement, and not only the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, but also the round tables on which everyone was practically involved, therefore, all insurance organisations, both domestic and foreign, and employees, who supported this solution. Otherwise, you know that there is one process that they will withdraw after this law is passed. Finally, to say that on these round tables, the participations of these insurance organisations that you call ours, so the DDOR and the Danube, were a very significant and large part, if not all their objections were included in this, so I want to relax you and that you know that by voting for this law you will essentially give support and agree to what the waist itself wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-30-0.u9645	Thank you, Minister. I hereby conclude the review of the Amendments and Supplements Act, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you for your work today. Resume session is tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
