ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14114	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Mujo Mukovic and Balint Pastor. This wait was also because a number of MPs came out of the field, people can't make it because of the slippery roads, they'll arrive. We move to the 2-3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Privatization and Proposal for Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Compensation which CITIZENS CONTINUE (addition) is continued following a reminder for a common principle search of the 2rd and 3rd points of the agenda. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak. He's not there. One more thing, this is now my human duty, our colleague Jorvanka Tabakovic died, and I hereby express her and her family's condolences. Is he in Milorad Buh's room? It's not. Happy Peacock? It's not. Srboljub Zivanovic? It's not. Božidar Koprivica? It's not. So no one from the SRS. The first speaker is then Mrs Vesna Pesic's folk MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14115	Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I am not generally against the fact that privatisation is running such flows that citizens participate in privatisation, but legal questions are being asked -- what is being divided from activity, in one context that we have seen when it comes to the budget, that we are already sharing, and in other words, if the salaries are growing and there is a deficit due to the growth of wages, we are already spending what we have not earned, so we are already dividing. I don't understand if this is some extra social measure, because the division is already there. The second thing I'm interested in, it's that the country is over-indebted. I'm not going to go into whether there's going to be a financial crisis, whether we're going to fall into debt crisis as a country, that I don't know, that's what economists are going to recalculate, but there's a huge debt. Who's gonna pay it back? Some generations have to pay back those debts. If all of this is considered, that we spend unearthed, that the country has huge debts and that it activates someone who would come here about selling certain actions, that we should share it, indeed, this cannot be treated differently rather than as some kind of social measure. So, from the economy, from privatisation, we're basically turning it into consumption. I'd like to be explained why it turns into consumption, and somehow it seems to me that these are gift packages for New Year's Eve. Besides, when I read this whole law, and last night I read it very closely again, I'd like to warn you of one amazing thing, that this law should create a very big state business. When it came to the budget, I was already talking about it, that we made one state-class party-state class, which is here, if you look at it, out of a public call of four million people. Just to tell you, I don't know why four million people are mentioned here, Mr. Djelic said that as soon as you're 18, you're running to sign up for a voter's list, show your civic duty. Usually, in the competent countries, it's about paying taxes. You vote when you pay your taxes. The connection to the voter's list also seems rather mysterious. If you say four million people - why four million? We have a voter six and a half million. If, let's say, we figure that a million people got their shares and that they're already taking part in the share of the stock, then I think it's five and a half million or five million. But you can't see it. So the number wasn't explained. I'm talking about this number because the technology of this division is a huge deal. Look out, these are millions of people to be served. There's a public call to be called in, so there's a central register where you have to register, so every million people have to decide, whether your application is okay or not, that you didn't get it, that you might not have a right, and then you're complaining to the minister, so the minister has to have an administration to decide on, and then you end up having administrative procedures, and then we read it online. Most people in Serbia don't have Internet, so they said we'd read those published in the Official Messenger, so we have to buy and run after the Official Messenger, and the same should be published in a daily list distributed across Serbia's territory. Who's gonna get that business? "The official messenger." And what's the daily list? I even see some corrupt elements in this law, because it needs to be distributed in one of these ways. So that's one huge machine. Please, who's going to tell you about the expenses? No one calculated the cost of this. Nobody says how much this business is gonna cost. And the sum is relatively small, the question is, will there ever be one? I'm gonna prove right now how serious that thing is. Costs are unknown. The sums are very small. It's a huge procedure. We have six months to sign up. We should humiliate our citizens, fight there to report and file that application – it will sadder than anything. The state needs to secure brokers, dealers. Who in the world does the state pay for brokers? Mr. Djelic, I've distracted you. Look at this law again. There's so much the state needs to pay. And when the state pays something, I think, respected citizens, we've learned so much, that's how we pay. Everything the state pays for, we pay for it. The state has no other income, but public goods, our good, tax, VAT, etc. So these costs aren't calculated. I really doubt it's a scam, it's going to be a humiliation to the citizens, and these millions of transactions that are being made here really don't make any sense. In addition, I would point out that our transition, or privatisation, was very non-transparent. It was sold burazer, half-half, commissions, no respect for contracts. The workers have been brought into a terrible situation. Some cut off what they bought, old iron, put on a lock, sell that iron, and it's worth more to them. We know what it all looked like. We've never heard how many ministers participated in this privatisation, how many actions they have. Now one linearity is being offered, and I'm particularly worried about it, because I see that this is about one social measure. So we're going to divide something, about 60, just to remind the citizens, in Article 1 says -- it's going to be divided from 68 companies, where the state has 15% ownership. In all these 68 companies, these 15% of what's left, which is likely to be the majority owner that will buy at any price, that 68%, that's your share of cash fees. First, technology, again, Mr. Djelic, I don't understand. Is every one of these 68 companies, that 15%, that someone buys, and at what cost, not known at all, because there's another situation here in public enterprises, and maybe you can really follow the price of the stock, and will each of those 15% be immediately divided into these millions, or are they going to put it somewhere, and then it's going to be divided? The technology shared there is not quite clear, but if it's a social measure, and it seems to me it is, then this linearity that's being predicted here really seems completely abnormal to me. When it comes to public enterprises, you know, and here yesterday it was read that some of them were in public enterprises across the party line, and day and day they did, a terrible lot of collection. Galenika's director has 600,000 dinars and now, based on employment, he will receive another 4,000 euros. Of course, provided it comes to that. So there's no point in this linearity. If it's a social measure, if someone needs to get a pair of shoes, because they can't invest, there's no business and all of this, so since they're gonna buy a pair of shoes to the kids, one of them's gonna be in the bar, one's gonna be there, the other's gonna be there, and when that pair of shoes is torn up, that's what it is. If it's buying a pair of shoes, as it seems to me it is, then I really don't understand why it's being divided linearly, so these rich people now, who robbed us in that privatization, are going to stand as citizens -- I once participated like this, and then I'm going to stand in some sort of order. So if it's a social measure, please define it as a public interest and then focus as a social measure. And let me tell you something -- when you say that employees will get more, were they not paid for their work? Didn't they go to the doctor for free? First, the whole story seems completely insane to me economically. We see that some of them were overpaid there, even though they were overpaid in Telekom, NIS, they're huge salaries, and now they're going to get paid because they were employed. The measure is social, divided into 150 or 200 euros. I don't think that makes any sense. Finally, since we can really read, it's in order how much of this state-owned business is here, how much is the gross red tape tax that we're going to pay, and the costs aren't even accounted for. Secondly, when it comes to Article 18, about public enterprises, look, why is it put – the airport is being sold? I'm asking you to explain that to me. And you know what the airport is, the most expensive are your airport fees now. Why sell it to the airport? And what private we're supposed to give to the airport? We can collect taxes, solve social issues, and we can sell airports! You know, when you buy a plane ticket, and certainly Mr. Djelic travels, it's known that he travels a lot, and I travel, I hide nothing, and I don't think it's terrible – they're the biggest airport fees. If you take, say, a Belgrade-Istanbul map, it's 180 euros. When you get that ticket back, you get 60 euros back, because these are all other airport fees. Why would someone get that now, when they can go straight to the budget, because it's practically one garage. I don't see what kind of analysis we've put in these public enterprises to sell, and maybe we shouldn't sell. I've given good reasons why a company shouldn't sell. It's another JAT. There's no need to have a national agency because we don't have any national flights. It's okay to sell it, but there's no point in selling it to the airport. So there's no discussion about it. You've listed six companies. You said that parliament would take part in the decision on sales, and every single law, and now it's listed here that it will be sold, and we have no place in public debate, neither among citizens nor in parliament. I want to show you how serious this offer is. You see, this government is a patented loser. I'm not just saying this because there's a Deputy Prime Minister sitting here, and I'm not saying that I'm angry or that I'm insulting anyone, but you see, NIS is listed here as the first public firm whose actions we're going to get. See now what's on the first page of "Politice" – "Trampa – NIS for the South Stream". Look what our situation is now. This government, as I see it, is about to lose Kosovo. This government is preparing not to join the European Union for the same reason. This government has convinced us that the Russians are our friends, that they are on our side, and now they say this - that the pipeline would go through the South Stream, through Serbia, we need these people, our friends, to pay off. It is said this way - should the South Stream gas pipeline, which would eventually pass through Serbia, be bound at any cost to sell NIS? They want to sell our property to Gazprom without a tender. If they're friends, if they're Serbs, gentlemen, dear, why should we pay the Russians now by giving without a tender state property, and the one that's number one written here that shares will be shared to the citizens? If we add it all together, and we see that we're already spending it, that it's a huge state-owned business, that we don't know what the costs are, that we don't know how it's going to be divided, that it's spending that's being divided linearly, where even the biggest rich people, the tycoons who took the racket and gave and paid the racket, to stand as citizens in line, and then we promise to subscribe to the Russians, I don't think this really makes any sense. All this requires very difficult answers, and it really seems to me that such a law, which might look good and satisfy at least that pair of shoes that many of our citizens don't have, but as it's done, I think it'll be more expensive than the measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14116	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14117	Dear Mrs. Pesic, I want to help you. Trying to see some logic in your presentation, I've had some difficulties. I know you're not an economist, but it seems to me that indetermination is essential in terms of economic understanding and politics, at the same time ideologies, it seems to me, because in your presentation, I've heard traces of social democracy, and on the other hand of some ultraliberalism, and of course, in the end, something that's a certain element of geopoliticalism. I'd like to try to sort things out a little bit, and hopefully that'll help us all. First of all, you've come up with some questions: what we share, who we make, who we pay, who we give to, who we give it to, who we give it to, who drinks, who pays, etc. Here's a few elements. The first thing, as far as the budget is concerned, the budget is financed from public revenue and for expenditure, if necessary, from the privatisation revenue and the possible borrowing of our country. A large current since 2001, and until today it is all visible in the budget, not scattered in hundreds of laws, in the special account regulation, but seen as a palm here in the Republic of Serbia's budget. You had a chance during the previous point to see what was happening here and to determine, as MPs, whether it was worth supporting or not, up to the individual point of each individual duty and purpose. In addition, the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia has taken full responsibility, as far as the Republic is concerned, and there is a major reform that will allow direct budget users and indirect budget users to be in the Treasury. Every payment of the state goes directly from one order to execution in the budget, so we have a one-European transparency system. As for the salary, you will notice that this government, although there were stories that we did it pre-election, that it was a measure that was populist, you saw essentially that the answer to the strike of the judiciary was one real social agreement. The judiciary unions have agreed to enter into reform of this great system. What's defined financially hasn't been breached as a plan. It's the same case as the very important segment of our society, which is education, where a good deal with representative unions has been signed. So the government doesn't share what it doesn't have. On the contrary, he is encouraging social partners to offer opportunities - what can be done in 2008. One of the beautiful flows from October 5th to this day is the ongoing social dialogue that exists, which did not exist before. I'm very proud that, as finance minister, I initiated such arrangements at the time where, in advance, in the year to come, I agree with the unions, so everyone knows what it is that they can expect, in what way, which rhythm, which increase, when. That's the certainty of those who work for the state, that's also the certainty of public finances. Here we have seven years without any major strikes in education, which is very important for our generations. Let us remember how many generations normal schooling has been denied. And that's good. As for debts, I'm sorry the facts say otherwise, but they're very stubborn. Our country inherited a situation where debts were 1.2 times the total gross domestic product. This year we end up with four times smaller debts. They represent 30% of our gross domestic product. Mrs. Pesic, maybe that missed the budget. Our external sovereign debt is shrinking by 5.1 billion euros. It's shrinking so much, and in the meantime, our gross domestic product has increased. By the way, as far as sovereign debt is concerned, our country is today, I know that it will surprise many, one of the least in charge of Europe. Does that mean we can relax? No, I don't. Because the total debt, when we add the debt of companies and citizens and banks, represents about 60% of gross domestic product and that's some limit we have to stick to. I hope that's how I cleared things up. As far as this law is concerned, I tried to find some idea in that economic LDP program during the previous campaign. In addition to the general places, I saw only one measure – you asked to cut wages in public enterprises. It's the only operational measure I've ever seen. We didn't support that measure because we don't think real purchasing power should be reduced to anyone. So what I don't get very well is that, on the one hand, you support harsh competition and ultraliberalism (whatever a surgeon, we cut and so on), and on the other hand, you're talking, like radicals, about high wages in public enterprises, and that's some form of demagogy that says -- well, I guess we should give more to those who are poorer. The problem is that when you go to the free allocation of actions, the moment you leave the principle that anyone who is a full-time adult can have his own property, which is a very important feature, who is a citizen of our country, who has a residence and here, as you can see, we come to the clarification of this second of your surprise, that there may be some more people who are voters – there are a lot of people who are on our election lists, you know that very well, who do not have a place in our country. What you said about the tax is very interesting, however, a very small number of countries have one such provision, and it seems to me that no one will be angry or complaining, because this can be an additional incentive for everyone, and especially for those who are not in the electoral lists, to enroll. That's how we expand the base of our democracy, expand the possibilities for all our citizens. As for the state business - well, who else should privatise other than the state? Of course it's the Privatisation Agency that was supposed to do it and of course this wasn't a "buzzer privatisation." By the way, you, too, were not an MP at the time, you were an ambassador to Mexico, but those who are largely in your party, in your coalition, with us passed the Privatisation Act, and that law essentially proposed a correct model for our country and gave good results. To remind you that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, when it was adopted, has declared it the best law on privatisation in the transition, because it has seen and corrected the numerous mistakes some other countries have made in privatisation. Let me remind you, JAT is not an agency, it's a company. You're right, it doesn't have a monopoly. On the other hand, it does not matter that we have our national company in the sense that it has our name, that it bears our flag and that any future investor is obliged to expand Belgrade and our country, as far as possible, as Nis, as centres for aerotransport throughout the region. Therefore, in terms of privatisation, we are currently considering them, they will, of course, be part of what we propose. As far as NIS is concerned, there's no trade. I know there's always a paranoid attempt to see what it is, what it's like, and if there's even some kind of shop attached to it, if anyone's offering anything in return. Our government, and in any case, anything agreed, will come to this house, so this assembly will have full insight-- what, if anything is proposed, so there will be debates here as well. Nothing will be done, as the people say, under the grain. Anyway, it's something this home will have to confirm if it wants to be the subject of any transaction at all. What I can say is that the government of the Republic of Serbia defends Serbia's national interest, like any other government in the world. I must say, I feel, listening to you, with the deep respect I have for you as a person, a little disappointment when you show about important political issues different views in a private conversation and for a pay phone or through statements. We didn't talk about who's sick, how who's feeling or about some private stuff, so I don't seem to see much consistency in terms of economic policy. Because, on the one hand, cruel liberalisation is sought, and on the other hand, it is required to carry out some form of social justice through this programme. It is partly there that everyone is involved in this great process. I also see no specificity in terms of foreign policy. I don't see how you think our country gets support. However, your party did not support the Constitution which, as well as its preamble, obliges us all here to defend our country's territorial integrity, so that I do not see any political consistency at the same time, because at this moment we do not see exactly whether you are an opposition. In fact, when there is a very important election, on January 20th next year, I ask you very clearly, Mrs. Pesic, if you will support Mr. Tadic. Is it clear to you, like everyone in Serbia, that there will then be a historic moment for Serbia and very clearly determine our country's further path -- on the one hand progress towards European integration, the fight for our territorial integrity and on the other hand uncertainty? So I see in this, too, it seems to me, unfortunately, a good form of uncertainty and something that, of course, cannot be fully understood. After all, I have to tell you, if you honestly thought you'd do something for the poor, then excuse me - why didn't you submit the amendment in that direction? So there are no amendments to the LDP, which would eventually suggest that those who are poorer get more through this process. Simply, if you really think that's the way it should be, why didn't you submit an appropriate amendment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14118	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic. Mrs. Vesna Pesic answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14119	Mr. Djelic, I'm really surprised. You're using this assembly pay phone to deal politically with me. I've spoken in an extremely decent way about this law. I don't know why you're calling now - what it says. You, as minister, have to speak from the capacity of the minister, not to hold me political bouquets – what does the LDP programme say and am I a cruel liberal on the one hand and am I politically consistent? It's none of your business. You can't talk like a party-stricken person. You are here as Minister and speak for the general public interests. I don't care if you're a party member. You can't tell us what our programs are going to be. You really got carried away. You really think you're in some kind of conflict with me, but I'm not in any conflict with you at all. I can't understand at all that you're investigating my political consistency. What difference does it make? What difference does it make if I'm a raw liberal? Where did I show in my speech that I was a cruel liberal? Secondly, I just showed you. You said yourself I don't know the economy. First of all, you're listening to me politically completely unwarranted. Look, please, I've already said, and you've confirmed it yourself, that they're paying public income and privatisation. There's always something to sell. Well, when we sell everything, we repeat it all to the squad, so what do we do when it's all sold? It's a question that every illiterate journalist asks. What did I do wrong economically? How much of your great science is there to pronounce it? So we're already paying the wages out of it. That's what Milosevic was doing, selling that Mobtel, so we do it all the time. So there's nothing wrong with economics, because logic is exactly the same. So you're trying to say I'm ignorant. And secondly, you dare ask from this pay phone who I'm voting for. It's completely incomprehensible. What's wrong with you? Do you use a pay phone for such things? I made remarks about this law. Most of all, I asked, even, if it was some kind of social measure, so, since I asked how big the costs were for this, then I said, because it really remains tiny, that maybe it was better to define it as a public interest and then go really selectively, and not to share it with those people who have 600,000 dinars of pay. I didn't suggest any of it, but I asked, because according to how huge the costs are, you didn't answer me what the government had calculated as a cost. Why is the state paying for brokers and dealers? That's huge. Secondly, let me tell you, you're out to congratulate yourself again. I don't know what you're congratulating yourself on. I have no reason to say anything is the blackest here, nor to boast. We have problems and we're trying to solve problems. You went out last time and said that one of the main problems is unemployment, poverty. Now the Democratic Party, since you're here partying, and I didn't use it at all, you said yourself, and DS, that they're not gonna help the middle class anymore, they're going to be dealing with poverty. I was kind of on your line. If that's a social measure, where are the costs huge, what do we share now in the capacity of citizens? Secondly, let me tell you, Mr. Djelic, that you don't understand yourself in democracy at all. What kind of expansion is the basis of democracy over this? What does that have to do with anything? People are enrolling in voter lists, and so far they've been enrolling in voter lists. Now we're going to say to the 18-year-old, "Here, you got it." And another reason: why 18 years? If it's about everybody, I don't see why the kids didn't get it. If we look, everyone from 18 to 25 lives within the family, it's the most pressing situation in us. Now you've given one family, in which a child by this year turns 18, another income, and one whose child is 17 or 16, that's not going to get it. I don't see why 18 years. There's no reason for that, and you're linking it to the expansion of the foundation of our democracy. So, in democracy, you don't understand, and don't use a pay phone to hold party bouquets. I've tried to ask you a few serious questions about this law, and you've been telling me how I speak politically and even who I'm going to vote for. Please don't use a pay phone for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14120	I thank the People's Parliament to Mrs. Vesni Pesic. The word, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the People's MP Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic saw that there was no among the MPs of the SRS, so to speak, no one from the top of the party, so he thought he could give a nice election speech in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I will only remind the citizens that Friday is the day when a meeting of the executive committee of the party is held in our party, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a large number of our MPs have gone to Novi Sad, where our colleague died, so this is a clear abuse of the situation. I want to point to this opportunity. Mr Djelic has violated the Rules of Procedure in the part where the minister and representative of the government can defend the proposed law against the MPs, and cannot abuse that function, and this was a typical example of abuse. I understand Mr. Djelic's need to try to regain his positions in the Democratic Party, because he's on one side in the DS of, I don't know, a dozen factions. Mr. Djelic himself knows that the dramatic example of his reputation in the party is when Mr. Tadic found out about the ten or elevenm euros in his bank account. Now he is trying to court Boris Tadic by urging and calling on certain political parties to vote in the upcoming presidential election for Boris Tadic. He can do that at his party meetings, but in the National Assembly he can't. On the other hand, Mr. Djelic, you said that radicals, spreading demagogy, point to high wages in public enterprises. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has read to you what the salaries of the directors of public enterprises, members of boards of directors, etc. It's not a demagogy, it's an official report he received as chairman of the Administrative Committee. It's the facts. That's it, then, that's it. It's not a demagogy. Citizens best know whether demagogy or not, if the chairman of the board of directors or JAT, for example, has a salary of over 300,000 and a pensioner, and that Mr. Todorovic has shown, has a pension of 5,000 dinars. Demagogy is what you're talking about. Demagogy is these bill proposals that are now on the agenda, right in the pre-election activity that you have and a proposal for privatisation, where you've all pushed to work by the Agency. Demagogy is what you have done eight years from now and ruined all the businesses you have privatized, from Sartide and beyond, from Djindjic to you. Demagogy is also what you propose in free actions that will happen only in 2010. It is, Mr. Djelic, a demagogy, and the citizens know very well that changes are necessary to get you off this people's back. I'm sure, and on this occasion, I'm going to abuse the pay phone, and I've already timed out in a minute, I apologize to the chairman, to invite the citizens to really think about the kind of conversation you're having in the assembly and whether this campaign is positive or negative. I think everything you say is supposed to be in favour of Tadic's antiquity, and I'm sure the citizens will assess it on January 20th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14122	I thank the MP Milickovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14123	As for the cost of privatisation, they exist. The first thing that is important to say is that, as far as recording goes, the Ministry of Economy is preparing a proposal. Of course, he will be prepared when and if the Assembly adopts this law. Given that, and that is true, that is a large number of citizens, institutions that have a very wide network are needed. The post office is a hundred percent state, one that will bear most of that burden, as far as the records are concerned. There will be no humiliation for our citizens. On the contrary, we will do everything possible to make this procedure simple, in the process of registering their rights physically only once. As I noted last night in the opening statement and later in answering several questions from the MPs, we will do everything possible to allow those who have health problems, who are prevented, and who fully meet all conditions to get these actions, to be allowed to be recorded. As far as questions are concerned, why, in our system, it's a practice, with few exceptions, which have proved to be bad, it's good to give property to someone who has the opportunity to have full access to it. Every time that principle is overwritten to the market economy, that's the problem. Then there is a question, unless a person under other regulations is able to dispose of that property, who will have that property on behalf of that person. By the way, it's full-time citizens who need to get these actions. Of course, there were a lot of questions whether or not to make differentiations in the material situation of citizens. But then we enter a rather difficult question, a matter of years. This is what the G17 Plus MP said last night, whether more action should be given to those who are older because, by some logic of the matter, what is divided here is not the grandfather of any political party or of this government (by the way, this is the continuity which has been drawn since June 2001 by the Law on Privatisation), but rather the property, property and value that several generations of our citizens have formed – those who have funded the development of these businesses through the payment of taxes and contributions, those who have worked, who work in these companies today. The proposed measure is that the democratic principle is that our full-year citizens have equal rights that are most just at this point, because any other question would lead us into one matrix of consideration, which, by age, which, by virtue of the difficulties of life, would probably never come out of. So in this principle, there is justice, and I would like to further say that the right criterion is, we talked about it a lot yesterday, and I hope that we will continue today, to ensure that those who may have less information, who are not sufficiently involved in the life of our society, have the same opportunities to enroll, to register and get these rights. Costs will be clearer if this budget is adopted. Of course, by law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot enroll in the 2008 budget the costs for a certain procedure unless the National Assembly has passed the relevant law, but that will, of course, be published. All services will, of course, be published if they are opened to the private sector in an open tender, and all decisions will be made available in both the Official Messenger and the daily list, and the reasons why someone who has requested to be registered has been rejected, so that transparency in this procedure is fully established and that all those, and only those who have the right to these actions, are also registered. There was a big question, and you saw that it was tough, that more than 80 hours of negotiations were conducted with relevant trade unions and public companies. We've heard all kinds of opinions. He believes that those who work or who work in public enterprises must not receive any action because they have long had better salaries, more stable jobs and other benefits that have not been enjoyed by other citizens of our country. There was also a position in which they should be given the same as other citizens of our country for the same reasons, until the demands of some trade unions to be up to 40-50 times what is proposed here. I think that the deal with the trade unions, along with these additional amendments, without any scarcity, we have seen the same amendments, which were submitted by the SPS, Mr Baralic, and the G17 plus. Yesterday, the government was in session, since one number of these amendments were not, this is an additional reason why they were not adopted in full, legally correct, because it did not cover all the elements concerning bonus issues in the law on the one hand and the possibility that employees in public enterprises, although they have exercised rights in some social enterprises for free actions, have the right to that part of the career that they have spent effectively in the public enterprise to receive free action. I think that this measure for a fairly complex law and this law, as we have repeatedly said, does not cover the issue of what kind of strategy, order, form and quantity of possible privatisation of these public enterprises. Last night, I indicated the direction we're going. It is clear that where Serbia can do it alone, without a strategic partner, the majority, to make a regional leader, like all other countries, is in the interest of our country, and we will try to do it, opening up capital as much as it takes for these companies, I think mostly of Telekom Srbija, of the EPS, to create regional leaders such as today some countries in transition, not Western European countries, as Hungary has MOL and Matav, the Czech Republic has CES, why our country would not try, where there are opportunities, to make a regional leader. In that sense, both about NIS and other important enterprises, this home will of course be informed, it will vote. In this way, be assured that they will not, because it is not in anyone's interest, and at least Serbia, that some transactions happen, agreements that would not be in our country's interest. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14124	I thank Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr. Vladan Batic. I assume you're advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14125	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, of course all privatisations should be public, transparent, law-founded, just, fair, in the interest of the state, employees of these companies, etc. That's why we don't need to hold any political lessons here and celebrate the character and the work of any individual. Mr. Minister, you did it on August 30th, celebrating the character and work of Vojislav Kostunica. You are now doing so in terms of Boris Tadic, arguing it is the only way towards European integration. But I remind you that the path to European integration cannot lead across some exotic islands, let's say through the Virgin Islands. You were very offended the last time I mentioned one of the privatisations you took part in. I'm ready to apologize, but I'm asking you to answer the following questions. Does the name of the Sokobanja company mean anything to you? Is one of the co-owners of the company, when it is privatized from bankruptcy, and this can be seen in the case files of the Trade Court in Zajecar, and one of the people accused of being members or bosses of so-called. The tobacco mob that's in custody today? Did you enter a partnership with this man and his firm? Is your company "House of Europe Invest" from Vasenara, Holland? You didn't have to know, of course, that this man was involved in any kind of thing, and that will ultimately determine the court, the suspicious actions. Next question: Do you know which bank gave credit for the privatisation of the Sokobanja company? Was your participation registered with the Agency for Economic Registers? How long did that take? How, why and when did this company "House of Europe Invest" transfer to "The Galileo Limited" from the Virgin Islands? However, it would be correct, just from some European standards, honest, fair and transparent privatisations, to get an answer on these issues. I don't think that's dramatic, but it's fair that the public knows whether this is true or not. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14126	The word has been made by MP Nikola Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a brief notice - we will postpone today's session of the Privatisation Committee for next week. The assumption was we won't have time, so it'll be scheduled later. There are two laws here, and all they do is break a spear. I'm particularly surprised that, instead of serious objections to late reaction, through these two regulations, we have objections to react at all. I can't make any sense of it. Personally, my observation here is that it took a lot sooner and much faster. The model was passed back in 2001, I mean privatisation. It's been changed twice to this day, and this is the third change. I'm going to disappoint my colleague from the SRS as much as I'm going to tell him that the pre-changes are a direct product of the Privatisation Committee's work. The ministry, headed by Dr. Bubalo at the time, accepted these suggestions and brought about the Committee's first changes. But privatisation is a living thing, a procedure that can bring something new every day and change what the best lawyers and economists can think of. That is why today is before us and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. I won't keep you very long, but I think this is what I personally hoped for until the end of the day, that is. This year, the final breakup with that delusion called social property. I am absolutely certain that December 31st, 2008 is exactly that day, and that is that new year. I think everyone would have to agree that it's one form of property that's extremely unproductive and completely without its legal nature, one invention that's been alive for so long that it's terrible, couldn't even kill itself by law so far. The natural consequence of all this and the second step towards the final completion of privatisation, as perhaps the most painful part of transition, is the second draft law, the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. When we look at it this way at a united point, neither was this privatisation model the best in the world, but we don't have a better one, nor is the model of the right to free action the best, but it's right in front of us right now. The problems, I agree, will be very much in the implementation of this law. But should any work to solve this problem be stopped when a problem arises? No, on the contrary. Whether there are social notes, whether there are social elements – I would absolutely not engage, but I am personally glad that a month of intense dialogue is taking place. Whatever the result, but there's a conversation going on between the government and certain unions. We are late again, this dialogue should have been constant, from 2001 to today. I don't think that this kind of intense dialogue has been conducted on the Economic and Social Council so far, nor has it ever, quite frankly, been achieved by some results, and the very result of this dialogue has also been amended through the amendments to the Government, which we will talk about later. I would not continue to keep your attention by thanking you now something God knows that all this together, but the change of consciousness that will inevitably follow, especially as the Deputy Prime Minister promised us at the first spring session in the next year by passing and the law on restitution, is exactly what we have been fighting for from the very beginning. That's exactly why the G17 plus party is on the political scene today. That is precisely one reason for the change of consciousness among Serbian citizens to come to the level that will provide us with what used to be called upgrades. I don't see anything wrong with that. Thanks for the time. You could talk about this a long time, and I appeal to everyone to think about it anyway before they vote for the adoption of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14128	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Riza Halimi, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14129	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within the framework of the article. In 225 and 226, I will use the presence of Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, since I have not received an answer from the Prime Minister for more than three months. After the government's arbitration decision to regulate the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, I addressed it in writing over three months ago through the Prime Minister in order to express my dissatisfaction with this imposed reorganisation on the coalition of Albanians in the Presevo Valley and also to request a review of this decision and a far more serious approach by the Government to address very sensitive life problems in this area. The question is what exactly does the government intend to do, firstly in the direction of improving this arbitration decision, and the main objective is what it intends to take to have a more serious approach to solving life problems in this area. In an explanation that we had here from the President of the Coordination Body, it was stated that instead of earlier four co-ordination groups -- education, social issues, health, culture and information, there is now only one team. Although it is not decided, since the name 'integration and social issues' and not these other areas, the decision published in the 'officer' cannot be seen clearly, however, it is even more important that the handling of this team is entrusted to Dragan Lazic, who has no competence in any of these ministries, not in any of these, not in health, not in education, not in culture, and should be led by a team dealing with these most important life problems in this area. The fact that this gentleman cannot replace four former assistants or deputy ministers who previously led co-ordination groups, it is quite clear, however, is still at stake here as far as the gentleman is concerned and the problems of this area, which he said in Sunday's Telegraph on October 24th, where he not only accuses the leaders, but also hardly accuses Albanians in this area. It is important to give an answer as to how they intend to solve life's problems when unemployment is 70% there. On the other hand, we are talking about large, fantastic sums invested in the area, and we from the previous 2,500 workers in the economy have less than 1,000 who are now doing something in private and the remains of former companies that are very badly privatized. I call the Department of Business every week on the phone, I'm bored because I can't possibly talk to the ministers, it's absolutely impossible for a national MP from that area. It's okay to have the Secretary of Defense coming to the area right now. And wasn't it better for the Minister of Economy, Economy, Minister of Education to come along with him who wrote us answers that absolutely don't correspond to reality on the ground, then the Minister of Health and others, so that a better doctor from Vranj should not go to the mountain villages in Presevo and make a media event out of it, and no one here worrys about what the home of health, what the Ministry of Health is doing to ensure that the institution fulfils its obligations to its citizens? These questions, gentlemen, it is really the right thing to sit down and talk seriously, and not to let us, from the means of information, hear that the government is making decisions about us that we didn't have a slight relationship about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14130	I thank the People's MP, Riza Halimi. The word has a folk MP Mirjana Stankovic, and let Mrs Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 198, which says that the MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual minister or to the government of his jurisdiction, and under Article 200, which says that the government, or the minister, has to answer immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. Mr Batic has just asked Mr Djelic, the minister, several questions that are very intriguing, I believe, for the Serbian public who is following this, but also for us MPs. I really ask Mr. Minister to respect the rules of working in this House, to answer these questions, because they are very important to us. Otherwise, we will draw the conclusion that the minister did not come here today to answer the important questions we are asking him, but to hold political sermons and ask rude questions to his political opponents. So, Minister, I urge you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to answer the questions Mr Batic has asked you. We won't give up on you answering those questions. On the contrary, we will insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14132	I thank Mrs. Stankovic's MP. The word has a People's MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic, and let MP Aleksandar Gajic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14133	We have before us the law on one other part of privatisation. So, privatisation is largely done, in matters of importance, and the rest are public enterprises. Now it's time for her to get privatized too. I wanted to say that in terms of privatisation of public companies, the SRS is absolutely in agreement, because it is better to privatise public enterprises than to go into liquidation. So, 31.12. is some framework that must be respected. However, Mr Djelic, the privatisation that has been done so far has been absolutely harmful to the entire Serbian people and to all citizens of Serbia. So far you've had the wrong privatisation, and now, I mean, a little late you thought of trying to fix something. Why are you now, in this way, fixing this privatisation that you have done largely in the Republic of Serbia? Why? I believe it is, in fact, that the reason now to collect some political points, with some possible promised fee of about 1000 euros to be received, and will not be able to be used before 2010. What can happen in those two years on the market for action and in general on our Serbian market, which is miserable, miserable, transitional and extremely uncertain? What in 2010 of these actions, which you are now going to produce, of 1,000 euros, can our citizens expect? What is the security that you give the citizens that 1000 euros will now be worth the same in 2010? When you respond to the people that it will be the same equivalent of value now and then, then we can discuss that it is okay and the SRS absolutely is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to benefit from that privatisation, which is only now coming, but only on condition that these funds, I repeat, 1000 euros now, are 1000 euros and when they can be realised. That's one thing. The other thing is the way you're going to do this privatisation. What we disagree on is part of the way you want to do it. On this point, we have submitted certain amendments, and I would like you to pay particular attention to them because they essentially improve this law of yours. The third thing is that you put everything in the same basket and in the same order. So you're entitled to 1,000 euros, right? So people from the government have the right to 1,000 euros, former ministers, current ministers and all those who have spent a lot of time talking about privatisation so far. You will again stand in the same order, same with the people who are now collecting whether tomorrow they will have 20, 30, 50 dinars, whether they will collect, etc. So you're putting in the same order as yourself and someone who doesn't have a job and someone who's out of a job and someone who's a social case, someone who has nothing to treat. So you absolutely put everything in the same order to be equal to everyone. You just said that in one part this law is your social law and that's why you're equal to everyone. Is that right? However, what I noticed earlier, as you spoke about the law, you proudly said, to support this social element of the law, that this property is not the property of any political party, but the liquid of all workers who worked, invested and built these companies. I'm asking you, if you think that's the case now, and that's the right attitude, what you've done so far with so many businesses that you've privatized in a very unfair way. That it's unfair, I'll read a few letters to see how it's been reflected in practice and how your privatisation has actually been going on. And this Privatisation Agency of yours, which you are now giving some major powers, and so far has had certain powers, and so far has been able to manipulate this kind of privatisation, and it has very skillfully used it. What I want to tell you is this. Mr. Minister, this will also be your parliamentary question, so I'm asking you to record it. It's about privatizing the Magnochroma. "Global Style" is a buyer, and "Magnochrom" from the King is the subject of this contract. This is what the workers say: Right after the Agency's notice was announced – this is one of the letters and I ask you to listen and to take certain measures to help these people, if at all possible and if it is not already late – from 22.10.2007, management addressed workers in the name of the owner – people were, therefore, talking to the Privatisation Agency once, after which management addressed workers – and requested that workers start production to pay personal incomes per quarter from this production. We personally answered the management in writing that it's not a problem to start doing, but the problem is what and how to do when we don't have basic working conditions, we don't have electricity, we don't have water, we don't have gas. It's your privatisation, Mr. Djelic, the privatisation of the Magnochroma in the King. People ran out of electricity, no water, no gas, no basic conditions for production to work at all. When dusting in the eyes of workers and the public failed in this way, new tricks followed that, allegedly some credit arrangements, means they are again promised by the buyer that some new arrangements, which have just arrived at Magnochrom, were bid seven and a half million euros and six million euros, would eventually be promised two and a half million euros, and the epilogue had not reached a single euro today, but therefore the owner's representative officially requested a new extension of the deadline. You give these people who buy these companies infinitely great rights. You don't respect citizens' rights at all, you don't respect workers' rights, nor did these workers have insight into the contract they signed, but someone signed it on their behalf and they don't even know what their social programme is. Furthermore, he did not deliver the opinion of the auditor, not even now, and not last time, which the Agency found, but it did extend, gave him a period of a month for which the position of workers deteriorated even more because the debts for personal income are eight months, so the debts in public enterprises by workers are huge. Now listen well to this and try to have a little compassion, or a little emotional intelligence that is more than needed today for our politicians, and I haven't seen either of you have a little mercy. I don't know if you can stay immune to something like this when it says something like this to you. He says so - our children leave our studies because of the difficult situation of their parents. Did your kids leave the studios? Don't get me wrong, but you always have to walk away from yourself if you want to run the country. It is hard, and that's why it's a difficult time to run the state right now. Why do you people take such a hard job if you don't have the energy and the strength to do it? Listen further – chronic patients do not have medications for regular therapy, unrelated work hours 34 months, health books are not done according to new regulations, so employees from January 1st can, if the law is consistently respected, lose health care. Who's gonna treat these people? Did you know that these people are on the street every day, doing all kinds of jobs, you know that they're below every social level? And when a man falls below the social level, he's below moral level. Do you know what you're doing to this country with this privatisation of yours? He says – due to all of this on Friday, 30.11.2007, the Agency was told quite sharply that the situation in "Magnochroma" is more than dangerous and threatens to escalate in a negative direction that no one can control. There are doubts about the impartiality of the institutions, including the Agency. Criminal charges have also been announced against all who are believed to be responsible and have led by their actions and inaction to this condition in which Magnochrom is today. Since the owner of no point has used any time of 30 days to do anything, not in the case of production initiation, nor in the work relating to the social programme of workers, personal incomes and the like, the Agency has been asked to terminate the contract unconditionally, because we are afraid it will be late tomorrow. We're expecting the Agency's report next week. Honestly, we don't expect anything favourable because it's obvious that someone from the political elite is helping the owner behave like this, not fearing every step of the purchase contract and the law of this country. Look what happened in the meantime. There was an audit team, auditors came, but the opinion of the auditors wasn't sent to the Privatisation Agency, the SUP had work to do about it, so I ask you to write it down as a parliamentary question and look where it came from, whether they have the right information and when it's really going to come to the end of the contract. But don't let after the end of the contract happen that workers lose both what they've had so far and what they could have. I'd like to say that the gentleman from Global Style cut down all the high furnaces and sold them, and he remained in debt to the state, to us, to our contributions, to self-indulgence, to pension and disability insurance. Please see what you'll do with that man. Magnochroma workers have their own business plan that they would like to create to preserve Magnochroma property on a relationship that is even today. And to see if whoever did the damage could pay back all that amount and that state property would go back to the workers because I think those workers know how to work anyway. I got another letter from Alexanderovec of the parish, and it's about privatising the Gossip Company in Alexandrovac. Please also write it down as a parliamentary question and see what will happen to these workers because they are in a very difficult social crisis and situation, and not just workers, but also their families, and these families have their youth and their perspective and for that reason I ask you to help as much as you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14134	I thank the MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic. The Rules of Procedure shall be advertised by MP Zoran Despotovic and shall be prepared by MP Aleksandar Gajic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14135	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, a decade ago, I spoke to the workers of the textile combination "Ljusa Miodragović" from Prijepolje, where 3,500 workers were once employed, who was one of the main swings of the pre-polskih economy of the 70s, 80s and 90s, and today, when our mouth and ears are full of democracy, after the five-octobaric coup, the same combination employs 500 workers, unfortunately, and the institution called the Labour Market Office or the Employment Office only increased that number. There are 8,000 unemployed today. This combination was privatized during 2007, and the conditions and price of privatisation for workers are not known today. The conditions of work in the company are catastrophic, and the existence of the 500 workers is highly compromised. The salaries are 7,000 dinars. But from the moment of privatisation to today, meaning somewhere in early 2007, they received only three salaries. The employer is unknown, and the people who are currently handling the combination, according to workers I spoke to ten days ago, are only the mask of those who are most likely somewhere in Belgrade. Invalids working in the Intex protection workshop within the combinations receive 50% of their personal income, but the employer uses that money for other purposes, while disabled workers steal the money that belongs to them. Although they are working full - time, a warm meal and a regression have been denied. The cost of transport falls on the burden, of course, of workers. As I mentioned, working conditions are catastrophic, no heating, no water, no hygiene is nothing. These and these conditions of work are familiar with the inspection services of both Prepolje and Užica, but to the cry of these workers no one has responded, so I ask the Resorship Ministry and the Privatisation Agency to say what they have done and what they will do to preserve the rights of the workers of the combination "Ljubisa Miodragović". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14136	The People's Messenger Alexander Gajic has the word, and let the Messenger Munir Poturak be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14137	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the President-in-Office, I would like to say that the party G17 plus the amendments to the Law on Privatisation and the division of free actions, which we are having a united debate these few days, will support in the final form, which will be formed following the proposed amendments. It's a very good thing there's a large number of amendments here, and opposition and positional parties, which is about the seriousness of the work we've all come to and agreed to. I think it's very important that the government has given three ministers to represent these laws. That's what it says about government unity, at least about these two laws. I also think it is good that the amendments of the opposition enter into the definitive form of this law, thus showing that this is a kind of national job. There will be elections, republican and others, and in that time life must run. These are examples of life laws, which will be applied in practice and of which, if the laws are good, citizens will benefit. If there is a problem, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will feel it on their skin. We're equally responsible for that. It is very important, I say, that in this situation we have the interest of opposition parties. We believe that the amendments have been made with the desire to improve the existing bill and that this will bring good results. Several times here and today, it was suggested that there was doubt that this law would be inadmissible. I don't believe that. So, I think that perhaps for the first time in our history, we will have all the citizens of Serbia who in a long time will think about what they will do in the future. Unfortunately, as our history showed, the people were interested and always talked about topics that were bad, which are war conditions, accidents, etc. Now we have a chance to sit down and think for a few months about what we're going to do with the funds we got from the state. So these are the assets that we and our ancestors made together, so I don't think it stands, because this is property that was acquired even before World War II, where generations participated. I would just like to remind you that all the things proposed in these two laws, above all in the Privatisation Act, are in some way the revision of those acts of two laws, from 1997 and 2001, which did not give life solutions, i.e. it has shown in practice that there are certain shortcomings. I don't want to remind you of what it looked like to privatise our telecommunications company in 1997, which the citizens benefited from, that there was a backlog of pensions, about the funds that were received by privatisation, so through the electricity bill, you know how it went. Does anyone remember that privatisation? So there were problems, but obviously, I mean, there were no evil intentions in it, and it turned out that some things were wrong. It was also 2001, and it was a law that changed this part of it, there was an irregularity. So, they won't be able to participate in crime-related persons this time, which is a very important thing. Also, they won't be able to participate persons who don't have basic capital. So you have to see where the capital is coming from that companies are buying, so we'll get a more stable market, and the workers themselves who work in these companies will be protected. Also, what is related to the percentage of privatisation, whether the 25 per cent is good or 51 per cent, I believe that the government and the competent state services, but also the expert teams of economists, will determine the best model. Personally, I believe that the percentage of the majority capital is 51% that should be sold much safer, because in this context we have the possibility that for such a 51% share, we will get potential buyers who will be high-ranking and we will get a stronger price. It is that the state will retain a smaller percentage of the action, but it is also related to this particular part called the 'golden action', which the state can have by controlling a package related to the system change of company status, which is very important. But, I say, it is still on expert teams of economists of different parties, which will bring a common solution and bring such a solution into line with representative unions. It has also been mentioned that union participation is very good. It's a welcome thing to have a national consensus on these important issues. I believe that we will come out of this in a good and quality way and that the entire privatisation process will be completed within the time limit, as provided for by law. A question has been raised about the inability to dispose of actions six months since the start of the stock market. This is very correct, because our people do not have experience in the management of stock exchanges, they do not have the ability to interfere with the work and knowledge of the stock market itself, so that this period of six months is good for citizens to learn in some way how the stock market works, because it is a principle that we will need in the coming years, in the course of approaching the European Union, and especially after entering the EU, very much. We also believe, at least I personally believe that at this moment, the vote of this law will give a new stimulant to Serbia's development, because the stock system will also, in a specific way, be revived and strengthened. Which is why 18-year-olds get the right and then they need to have an insight into the voter's list, i.e. to register? Let's be realistic and pragmatic, we all need to sort out the voter lists somehow. This will represent an additional system of arrangements for the country's electoral lists, which is an interest for all of us together. I also think that 3,850,000 people, as indicated, are about to participate in the free share of shares, will get their right, and about 150,000 citizens who are working or working in companies that are privatizing. I received information that there are about 1,070,000 people in the register who have the right to do so, so that most of Serbia, almost all full-time citizens, will be involved in this process. I have to mention, there's already five or six times here today that says how much the transaction is going to cost. Citizens won't cost anything. Thus, they were exempt from the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, capital gains taxes, central register fees, stock exchange fees, brokerage fees, etc. All payments that will be made will be made by the state on behalf of the citizens who receive these actions and will be completely free of charge. I have a dissonant tone about the Deputy Prime Minister's proposal, and that's where citizens will exercise their rights. Looking at Serbia's internal affairs, the crowds in the Post Office of Serbia, we fear that this job will be further difficult and will cause problems when entering citizens for free action. We think that a better variant is something else, but again, it is a matter of the government and whoever proposes it will be in charge of doing it properly, so that there are no bigger problems in the realisation of the project itself. I'm sure it won't go to citizens paying for any of their free shares they get. One more thing to say, I hope that the funds obtained from the sale of a minority or majority package will be made to improve the process of production in public enterprises and for further development, but some of the funds will certainly be invested in environmental projects, especially at NIS, because we ourselves know that we haven't had the opportunity to invest in the ecology that is needed over to make these companies work quality. The question has been asked, I'm going to finish this, if this project will succeed. I hope that if we find a consensus among all the citizens of Serbia, among us in this room, we can do it. There's one moment that's more important. Knowing who participates from ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, I think the results will be good, and especially knowing that Mladjan Dinkic is involved in all of this. You can love him or not, but be sure, what he starts, he'll end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14138	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Rajko Baralic, and let MP Munir Poturak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14139	Mr. Grouchy, thank you for giving me your word before the deadline. Since these elections are scheduled before the deadline, you will be elected president of the Republic of Serbia before the deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14140	Don't use the pay phone for advertising purposes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14141	Publicly speaking, I was the first to congratulate you. Okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14142	I'm fighting not to be a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14143	No, that thing's solved. I'm just trying to make a point with one attitude from an esteemed colleague. The privatisation of Telekom, like any other privatisation, can be the subject of criticism and it is not disputed. What I'm saying is that, under the Privatisation Act of 2001, most of the funds received from the process of privatisation from the substance went into consumption. Every budget since 2001, or 2002, as a budget source, has a privatisation income. So the criticism of this kind doesn't stand. In addition, the price reached for Telekom, I remind you, respected colleagues and respected colleagues, was such that it was very difficult to take that step in this way. You know, when one of the minority owners later retired from the entire system as compensation for his position, he got far less money than he invested, so there can't be a word about misprivitisation. If someone thinks that part of that money is over, as they say, buying social peace, that's true. Part of those couples did end up helping citizens to live better, but a huge part of those funds, 60%, was placed in the form of loans that had to be returned, primarily to business entities. In addition, the contract meant a very good position for holding JP PTT Serbia, which had an extraordinary position on the basis of the contract. I remind you that almost every technical asset the Post had was practically hired for Telekom's needs and that the amount of that rental, according to that contract, was so much that in two years the rental of a car could be bought. All these questions were very much taken into account. I know this topic has been politically worthwhile, but it's been a long time since. If this privatisation was wrong and if it was as you say it was, then how is it possible that the Deputy Prime Minister yesterday in the opening statement said that Telekom had stepped on his feet today, that he could now expand regionally and have such ambitions in the future? So it's not possible for something ruined overnight to become so big and powerful. We will not, of course, agree on these issues, I don't expect that, I just want to say that the privatisation of Telekom, since many years have passed since then, has been a great move, that the state of Serbia has kept the majority package in this system, that it has provided everything necessary for this strategic firm to contribute greatly to Serbia's economy today and I expect it in the future. I remind you once again that from the privatisation of all entities privatized in 2001, most of the funds, over 70%, ended directly in the budget and went directly into consumption. That kind of criticism doesn't stand, and I think it's been enough time for us not to take Telekom's privatisation as a bad example anymore. On the contrary, we could talk about other examples, but I had no intention of causing any special tension. Simply, I oppose your opinion, and I will do so in the future, because the privatisation of Telekom is implemented in a way that ensures that this company is positioned in a way that ensures that today it is what it is and that we show that we are ready to privatise large systems so that the state has a control package. I want this government, when it privatises strategic enterprises, to do so in the same way and to have a control package in each of these systems, EPS, NIS and others. Otherwise, in our opinion, we'll all find ourselves in big trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14144	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Munir Poturak, and let MP Vlado Sekulic be prepared, as the final debater on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14145	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I wanted to say about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation and the law on the sharing of free actions that our citizens are most interested in this law on the sharing of free actions. The whole public, the experts, the media, the press are talking about it. That is why it is necessary for citizens in that direction to get to know the possibilities as closely as possible and what they eventually get. First of all, it is good to make a decision to end the full privatisation of 2008, to know once who owns all these companies that are left, which are with a social, or state character of ownership. By sharing free shares, citizens get a 15% share, all who are over 18 years old, those who work in education, police, state institutions, receive housewives, pensioners, students, and farmers. Not only will those who have received shares in some privatisation process get away with it by now. Nearly four million citizens of this country are getting free action and the question is how much these actions will be worth. A very simple calculation can provide information as to how nominal action can be worth. The total value of these six companies that are privatised, 15% of that value, is divided by the total number of citizens in Serbia who are entitled and some nominal value will be obtained. Various economic analysts are talking about the value of the 250 to 1,000-euro actions that citizens should receive per capita, as they say, but this is a question, above all, of the general environment and of our country and situation, because we are subject to various crisis situations, primarily political and economic, and all of those laws that need to somehow lead this country towards stability, according to citizens' confidence in this country and states towards citizens. I'm glad Mr. Djelic is here and I'd like him to resolve to the citizens the dilemma of how much they will gain in value and how much that action will be worth. What's most important, I know by myself and the others we've talked to, that the education of our people in the world of finance, banking, is not at such a level as to recognize in a year how much action it's worth, is that the moment when they can react and get the right value on the market. It would be necessary for such a good idea, such a good law, to have such good support from the state institutions that all our citizens follow in thinking when the moment is to get the greatest value and when actions can have the greatest effect. Because it is the intention of this law for people to gain the highest value of these actions, certain economic and social protection. If we remember that last year, when this law was announced, various associations have appeared in many media outlets that have called for various records of action, I know that certain associations have been charging for 600 dinars a single piece of paper where people have signed up for action, which means that as of today, from the adoption of this law, various speculations will begin. So that everyone in charge, all those who in some way represent this law with their character and in part, must be organized to protect everyone in this direction so that people get the right information, to know which institution and where to report to get the right information. Also, we know that every one of us who enrolls must have a copy of the birth certificate, a belief in citizenship, I know that everyone has to have a personal document, I know that every document costs 300-600 dinars. I just wanted to remind you that here we have adopted a reintegration agreement for our citizens and that they are dealing with a number that is somewhere abroad from fifty to one hundred thousand, and that they don't have a residence here, not even many of them own it. There is also this moment in this process of bringing and recording all these citizens of Serbia, no matter who they are or what they are. I've mentioned all of this to say how much this law introduces a dynamic in the functioning of our country. Well here, fellow MPs have mentioned that all institutions are going to launch this, how much activity there will be, how many people will have to engage to end all of this in one normal and good way. Let me remind you, in this congregation they have passed extremely good laws that lead in that direction. The data suggests that income per capita was below $1,000 in early 2000 and today is nearly $5,000, that wages were then 50 euros, and now about 300 euros are on average. If we are saying that we have made exports to the EU, that we have received preferences in this direction, if we have signed a CEFTA agreement where we have such good relations and almost 50% of exports to countries, in exchange with these eight countries that are in the Agreement, if we say that from 2000 to September this year, the growth of savings in our country is increasing year by year, that in September about 341 billion savings in Serbia, our citizens, this shows that citizens' trust is returning to these institutions, to power, to government, to people and to all those who run this country. This is very important because often people speak negatively and with a dose of fear about all the laws that we as parliament support and correct our amendments. I wanted to ask Mr. Vice President Djelic, in all this growth, there is a terrible proportion, a difference between developed and undeveloped. You have a municipality of 15 times more developed compared to the poorest municipality. You have a local community 45 times more developed than one of the poorest. You have investments in developed parts of Serbia, in cities where such capital concentration is carried out, such a concentration of labour, to invest in Vojvodina, Belgrade, because, in addition to that basic principle, basic trade, people take that economic structure. In Vojvodina, they simply say that the economic structure is very rich for farmers, that small and medium-sized enterprises are developed, that trade is developed, which is very important. On this scale, it is in such a good and important place that citizens' obligations towards municipal obligations are regularly reconciled, citizens are able to regularly settle their obligations. Those who want to invest use such terrains, such space, there are foreign investors at any moment, people are encouraged to start both their potentials and their money. Unfortunately, I am talking about the area of Novi Pazar, which is not the most underdeveloped – according to data in the strategy for combating poverty, there are areas in Serbia that are even poorer, which are Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, etc. – The main drivers of the 1990s in Pazar were the textile combination of Raška and Shoes. Raška textile combination employs nearly 5,000 workers, and Shoes employs about 3,000 workers - neither work today. There is also a sleeping giant that could be launched and be a fundamental momentum, a wheel of development in Novi Pazar, which is "Vojin Popović". The property is so rounded up, the production process so defined, there are people with managerial and quality job potentials who have worked "Vojin Popović" so far, it is necessary to start this sleeping giant. It's simply because it's the only company that has its continent rounded up to nearly 1,000 hectares of value, with a production process that's been rounded up and exported that's fully secured abroad until three years ago. Unfortunately, because of various illegal actions "Vojin Popović" is currently in bankruptcy, but the most honest - property is there, people are there, everything can be suffered, and what is important is to find a strategic partner, someone who wants this job to start and develop. As far as I know, there are already interested. Please, if you find the time, there is a team, a team of legal advisors who could explain all their potentials, show that such a single municipality, poor by economy, and rich by number of people, is moving and developing. One more thing. In the process of dynamism, there are only a few laws that could tremendously help the state of Serbia and its citizens to make more progress every day in every respect. A law on regional development is needed. It exists within the Ministry of Economy and this sector of regional development, but there are no standards on how we measure why someone is more developed than someone else. How can we show that we're more developed than twisting our pockets and showing off? A law on regional development is necessary, a law on the restitution is necessary, i.e. the return of property to citizens and a law on the determination of the property of local self-government is necessary. This would trigger such dynamics to awaken potentials in our citizens. It would make it possible for businesses and economies to be on the front page and on the news, rather than on the other side. It would simply affect people thinking economically, thinking about their working hours, knowing in the morning, when they get up, where they're going, knowing that work is waiting for them. I think it's the greatest patriotic task of this government and all of us 250 who represent the citizens here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14146	I thank the People's MP Munir Poturk. The word is made by MP Zoran Despotovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14147	Dear People's MPs, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226, related to the request of a shoe factory worker in Prepolje. On 29.12.2004, we went into the worst form of bankruptcy, i.e. in liquidation, by the bankruptcy manager Ljubisha Djokic. It is not applicable to the law on bankruptcy and respected time limits for the establishment of organs. They wouldn't let any of the workers come in, with an explanation that it was someone on the side. The workers of the Lims didn't ask for the liquidation or destruction of their source of life. On the arrival of the bankruptcy manager Ljubisa Djokic, black days come for the workers of the "Limka" shoe factory. They're all the way from the factory and they didn't know what was going on. Once a solid factory had a total collapse. The workers leave without severance and other personal incomes for the period 2001-2004. On 31.12.2004, the same factory, according to the list, had stockpiles of about ten million dinars, with no other claims. The bankruptcy manager worked to liquidate Limku as soon as he could, since it was provided by the Trade Court in Uzic and two or three former workers of Limka. In 2007, they sold the factory for 17,000,000 dinars, and on the market only one facility, warehouse and cafeteria is worth so much. They settled the debt, and the workers stayed on the street to sit and beg. Requests from the BIS to the day of today have been made for two apartments owned by the "Limka". The peak of their work is the sale of apartment in Prijepolje, on Valter Street number 46, of 43 square meters, for 8,000 euros and 640,000 dinars respectively, as it is known that the square apartment in Prepolje costs 600-800 euros. I asked a question two months ago and I didn't get an answer until today. The trade court in Uzic is silent and approves of all events. The workers kept their mouths shut and calculated that there were some rights for them and that in all of this they would exercise their right because they were a wave of people from the age of 27-32. The question arises as to how, Mr. Minister, you said it was all black by 2000, and by coming democracy to these same workers, nothing was achieved, the lagging earnings from 2001 to 2004, they were without compensation for leaving the factory, compensation that belongs to all workers who remain unemployed. Please give us a concrete answer and don't use this pay phone for a pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14148	I thank MP Zoran Despotovic. The word has the last debater, MP Vlado Sekulic, and then Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, will receive the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14149	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on privatisation clearly has more motives that fit the current political situation, especially now that it is officially known that the presidential elections will begin. There are several reasons for doubting this law. Here, I'll list some. First of all, in the electoral, propaganda and commercial action, the bill is that ministers and individual structures of government would be assigned to citizens to achieve the best possible results in the upcoming elections. As shown here in the below, there is a doubt that the robbery of social and public enterprises that remain for privatisation will literally happen again, and that it will be all to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia and employees of these companies. When you look here, it comes to the conclusion that the law does not give the possibility that it cannot be privatized more than 49%, but goes right to the 70 percent solution. So, the interest is that the customer who comes, who buys the company, is literally automatically the majority owner and will already reach 70% of the stock value. Then the question arises whether he will be interested in buying out the 30% shares that will be broadcast. So, when he's already got 70%, employees who, on some basis, will either want to buy the shares of their company won't be able to make a special profit or get dividends because that owner won't have any interest in buying -- why would he still invest more money over that part when he became a majority owner anyway, and he has no interest in investing more and getting an even bigger number of shares. Obviously, the rest of the state and social capital will go to the hands of the tycoon close to the authorities. If we now look at all these companies that have been privatised and entered the privatisation process, it always comes to the fact that the people who bought this to today's government, and in general the authorities since 2000, are particularly close to some parts of the ministries and individual ministers. By the way, through these privatisations that have been made, all the privatisations that will be made give us suspicion that someone on the commissions will make a lot of money and that it will be designed to make some rich and that workers will stay on the street. Here, it is evident that my colleagues from the SRS have also cited examples of privatisations that have been badly done, as well as companies that are in bankruptcy proceedings, that bankruptcy managers from your ranks are coming, companies are still failing and will not go to privatisation because they have nothing to offer. It is also seen in this law to list crimes that will not allow anyone to compete and be able to buy a company in privatisation, but since the people who buy these companies are close to the authorities, and that they can be considered to have grounds for some crime, which all appears in the newspapers every day, here is an example of Mr Canet Žapca or Cannet Zhapca, the king of the tobacco mafia, Futura Plus, against it is also called an international arrest warrant, so, behold, it expands its business not only across Belgrade, but throughout Serbia, so it's a little bit illogical. Now I wonder if the minister will undo all the privatisations he's done, the press, politics, Future plus, so simply the workers who had contracts, franchises with Politics will again be entitled to their property. Through these laws you can see that competition can be easily contained if you want. You can create some sort of artificial affair and criminally convict whoever's honest, best bidder in the tender. You have levers of power and justice, and then you can literally eliminate any competition. The Privatisation Agency has received too much authority to liquidate the privatisation entities. In article 4, you are processing cases of the launch of the liquidation of the entities. The liquidation manager has the right to the prize and the compensation for the costs incurred. Right now, the minister stands there and says -- the minister is in charge of business and privatisation, determining the amount of reward and compensation. Thus, the minister can, for some of his subjective and private reasons, in the interest of some profit, set up a liquidator, set high costs for them, explain to him that these are the costs that have been incurred in business and that they simply gain a common benefit. I was also going to say, in this explanation, that the reasons for the law being passed are said to be - further considering the need for economic environments and the budget of the Republic of Serbia to protect against capital inflows stemming from crime, corruption or money laundering, certain restrictions have been introduced in law regarding conditions for participation. Now, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, if there are proven facts here, here, I've told you specifically about Stanko Subotic Canet, and many, if we look at the privatisation, which has now become the owners of all the companies, it means everything is forgiven. What they did, it doesn't apply anymore and to them it's all legalized, they're all clean. Now, these new ones that show up, which don't suit you, they won't be able to, but you'll prove that there was money laundering, in which way they acquired the funds they bought both businesses and everything else. This is where you get a lot of pressure on who's like you, or if he's party-friendly, he's in your party, you're gonna protect him, you're gonna cut him off all the competition, and you're gonna let him just do whatever he wants and spread to the harm of the other companies and everything else. Here, let me give you some specific examples. We also talked about bankruptcy. My colleagues brought out this data we heard. Yesterday I was in Pryce. The people of Limka, who was huge, who didn't work now, for three years they didn't get paid at all, the bankruptcy manager was determined by Uzica, they sold out basic assets, machines, so they don't have any perspective. People are just on the verge of existence. It's really disastrous that they haven't received a salary in three years or had any perspective. I'll set an example and an Obelenovac. All these great privatisations show that we have the right to suspect that this is an improvement in privatisation. In Obrenovac, literally ten thousand are currently unemployed. There were privatizations in "Bori Kečić", "Our School", "Posavini", "Comgrapu", "First Spark" - Baric, PKB, there are "Dragan Markovic strugara", "Bora Marković" and other companies. So, all the people from the firm that are in Obrenovac are now privatized on the street, especially the ones from Posavina. Posavina is a large trading house that had extremely good facilities in the center of Obrenovac and elsewhere, which was bought because of the business space that is being betrayed to the Chinese and everyone else. You saw the case yesterday, the small shareholders of Posavina's company were coming. The lady, from the stress and the hard life, does not receive any funds, simple actions were deliberately reduced to 500 dinars, fell unconscious here, was given help. They've spoken to the Ministry several times and everything else. What we've been talking about is the principle of sharing action, the SRS really doesn't mind giving free shares to all citizens of Serbia from the age-olds and beyond, but, just to say, I doubt it, Mr. Djelic, and you're so well aware of the actions, the dividends, the capital gains, that citizens, everyone who gets the action, what the gentleman said about the education of all shareholders, six months will take all of this, proved through some geneasy of action and privatisation, even brokerage houses, that our citizens are untrustworthy and go after that logic -- better a sparrow in his hand than a pigeon on a branch and are sold fast action. We know that the stock market is also resting on the supply and demand system – if there is a bigger offer of action, they will be reduced value. The nominal and market price shares are two totally opposite and diametrically different concepts. You can write that the value of the stock is and you'll share thousands of euros to everyone, but you can't dictate the stock market that the price will be determined on the market. It may happen that in the end, in the market, when our citizens (and we can also suspect that this was done for marketing and electoral purposes), they will all rush to sell those actions because they are literally brought to the question of survival and existence, in order to get any source of funds, and then they will get 100 euros for those actions that you said they would each receive per thousand euros. Mr. Djelic, I can ask you, not all citizens are experts in the field of action like you, so you're at Meridian Bank. I am this Sekulić who kept asking you a question, so you replied to me that the government was not competent to give me an answer and signed by Bozidar Djelic. I asked you a question. I ask the question, Mr. Djelic: On what basis did you get the action, or did you buy it, or did you get the consulting services you provided? What's the value? Mr. Minister, what was the value of the action then? Since you were at Meridian's bank, I'm sure she's been doing a great job, how much is out of getting separated into dividends? If your ten million shares are divided by only ten percent, you've won, so you have a value of 11,000,000. And secondly, I'm interested, since you said you weren't in a conflict and you reported it neatly, or it was later said that you sold it – when you sold, which brokerage house did the transaction, who bought it, at what cost? And, most importantly, for all citizens, for these shareholders, to see how it should be done fairly, and not as Minister Djelic, but honestly, as soon as you sell the shares, you must immediately go to your municipality where you live to report that you have sold and will see if you have capital gains. So, I'm talking about those shareholders who already have action, I'm among them. The moment we sold, we had to go to our revenue service to show at what price we got the stock, bought or how we got, by which we sold and paid 20% of the profit tax. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, you live, as far as I know, on the Municipality of Starship, in which municipality did you pay? If you've sold the stock, did you pay that 20% profit tax within what time? So, by the logic of the matter, you had to pay two million euros against the value of the anti-indarian. You'd know that and you'd see that. I think the president of the municipality would give you the key, the honorary key to that community, to be an honorary citizen. By the way, we're interested in how you citizens are going to convince us, we don't mind if we really share actions and that citizens all get it, but how do citizens believe that it's going to be fair and that it's not for marketing election purposes, when the minister who's here, the Deputy Prime Minister, I call him a minister, I'm used to being a minister, when he first showed and proved whether he got the shares honestly, how he got the dividend, at which price he bought, did he pay the income tax like the rest of the citizens pay? How can anyone believe that Mr. Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, is behind this law? He explains it here first, and it appears to be the man who specifically broke the law and answers me that the government is not, he says, competent to answer these questions and sign Bozidar Djelic. Well, I didn't write there from abroad, so now I'm chasing someone else, I guess. I specifically asked you a question, and now I'm asking you a question again. I'll tell you about these liquidations. Here, the Railway Association, in particular, is its headquarters in Gavril Principe, Belgrade. She hasn't worked for two years because of some decisions by former ministers, current ministers. That's where people put their deposits. Simplely, the Railway Association is shut down, people have no means, they have nothing, and they can't hope for any perspective. Citizens then wonder how far everything good for citizens in this country will be destroyed, whether the railway cooperative case will be solved for the benefit of the citizens, i.e. the clients of that cooperative, to be paid their deposits, the roles of which this State, i.e. this government, and how it is used. If and when deposits are paid, will they be paid by interest for the time period for which the State used it? It's the same example of what's been done. I hear that, I'm sorry, I wasn't really there, you mentioned an example of Galenika. "Gallenika" was the big system, certainly the strongest firm in Yugoslavia, not just in drug production. It was a huge giant, and then that miracle worker Milan Panic appeared, divided into "The Galenika of Medicine" and "The Galenika Holding". You know how it was with Panic, what they were doing. There are also some of our fellow MPs, who represented him legally. I mean Mr. Batic, he represented him legally. It is also known how they entered the company in 2000, after October 5th, who entered with Panic. It's no secret that in Galenika, it was then that Mr Panic and the masked people fell in. They broke into the Galenika, took over the Galenika, and there was money in the sacks, and everything they found in the Galenika vault was taken out, and no one even knew what was going on there. There's been a estranged property of Galenika. Here's how it's gonna go down. It's shrinking, which also reduces the value of every company. The estranged value of Galenika. Mr. Vice President, you were talking about Galenika. By the way, I've been working for 23 years at Galenica, so I know the process, from separation to holding, where Mr Brankovic was and when he was "Galenika", where Mr Panic, to all the other problems that were happening, until the trial in Paris, the Arbitrage and everything. I ask the question: Why is the alienated property of Galenika in Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Russia since the entry of DOS in 2001 into Galennik? In 2001, the DS deputy, after leaving Mr. Panic and his team, Mr. Zvonko Ostojić, assured workers that the kidnapping and robbery of Galenike was being prepared. According to him, workers have the right to action worth the 22,000 German marks then before replacing the stamps into the euro. At that time, construction of a new solid and liquid factory was sabotaged, which began in 1995 on the 50th birthday of Galenika. The modernization of our giant is also being sabotaged, so looking from this perspective, it becomes clear why Mr. Ostojić doesn't give them money, because they have profiters and Jugochems, Habitfarm and all the other companies that were. We all know that Prolek was sold in Belgrade, a large building, and it literally all went into some suspicious flows, money is not known where it is. Now I'm asking you a question about Galenika. The Galenic workers were literally, if all of this were to be seen, deceived three times to get action. As there was a transformation of the capital of Galenika (the meeting was closed and the type of actions closed), from a.d. to a.d.p., meaning from the stock company to the company of social enterprises, i.e. A state-owned company of 49%-51%. There's a closed action type. So the deal that happened is that the action can't have more than 100 people. I ask the question: Who are these people, among those 100, who have actions? Who are these people who own this giant's actions? Where are the shares from the share of capital in Hemofarm, the Commercial Bank and Velefarm? It's about Galenika, which will come in line. But simply "Gallenika" is the company that was certainly the strongest with drugs, and now it is predicted, here, that people would know that "Galenica" will reduce profits, that it will reduce the value of "Gallenika", is expected to move the production of the work "Gallenika" to Turkey and Portugal. It is being prepared to move the production of ampoules to Turkey, as well as Portugal. I am now interested in asking everyone if Serbian citizens have more confidence in Galenika's medicines or in Galenika from other countries and countries. This is how companies, such as Galenika, collapse, reduce their value and simply make the work and life of all employees more difficult. Here's an example of JP at Nicole Tesla. And it'll come to a turn. We know all these affairs around the VIP salon and everything. Now it's the final blow. I think it was, since it was Mr. Nedeljkovic 2003/04. year, so he inherited the VIP salon affair, so let's move on. Now, the general director of this known, as the "seven lotto", Mr. Kristo, member of G17 plus, is also former director of the National Lottery of Serbia, who continues to gamble but now gambles with the lives and families of the employees of the company. After entering office, after only ten days, he brings a plan to streamline the workforce (which is why, when there are few employees, 600 of them), offering them a voluntary exit programme, which follows if employees do not accept to leave the company voluntarily, and the distribution of free actions to the public is being prepared, people are now being pressured to take what little they have and leave. I forgot to say, if this really happens, to transfer the production of one part of Galenika to Turkey and Portugal, there will be 2,000 people without a job, especially the female population, which is extremely represented there, are worth, working, so this is just an example of how companies that did well are reduced to a minimum, as workers are left on the street. Serbian citizens will benefit from these actions to survive, but I'm afraid it won't be that value and they won't be able to get that value. Mr. Vice President, I would like you to come out and answer these questions that I have asked you, and you may also be able to convince the citizens, and I don't believe that this is all truly done, with the desire to take care of the citizens and that this is something that will bring equal division to everyone. Here, I'll be free to tell you: do you know, Mr. Vice President, for the old privatisation system, for example, that some companies, here are specifically Galenika, Fitopharmacy, they had part of the holding company of that time, now it's a stock company, it's been shared. Maybe now it's degutant to talk about a period, but why not say something that has proved to be a good division. Sixty percent went to the employees for free, 30% went to the second round and 10% went to the PIO. All those workers who bought the stock, or who didn't run to sell, get neat dividends, because the company's doing well, so it separates from profits into dividends, the money gets paid. It's the principle of privatisation that proved itself and then it was good. I'm not saying we need to get him back now, but I'm just telling you how it was before, you didn't come here now, so explain to us what privatisation is and what's new now, like we're laymen so much. I respect that you've been to France and everything you've done, but you haven't shown in the case of this country's well-being but only as a benefit to you. You have achieved the greatest benefit in the Meridian Bank, and now I expect you to come out, to answer all these questions publicly. I think they're professional questions, if we weren't so many laymen that we didn't know what dividends were and what was profit tax and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14150	I thank the People's MP to Vlad Sekulic. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr Bozidar Djelic reported. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14151	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first to thank all the MPs who participated in this discussion. I think we've made some progress, especially about how the rights of a number of categories of our society, employees, refugees will be shown. We talked about endangered minorities, we talked about a series of needs for education and information to be very widespread. Let me say a few words, because it was also a question, given that these two laws represent the rounding of a very important process, the privatisation process in our country, to briefly refer to the balances of these first few years. However, the Democratic Party MP did so in part yesterday. I'll try to give you some complementary information and then, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a few final words about this discussion before it gets to the discussion in particular and the amendments. As far as privatisation is concerned, it is in itself an extremely complex process. Of course, it is not easy to organise all countries in transition, but not only those but also highly developed countries, which have an over-market economy, have always had difficulties, tough and long-term debates, where various ideas about the privatisation model would cross over. Since 2001, the Republic of Serbia has seen what was started by Ante Markovic, since certain laws in the 1990s, respected a number of good ideas, but also brought a new model through the Law on Privatisation in 2001. That model has been applied since then. This is the fourth government to apply it, and I have to say that in this case, we see everything Serbia can do when it has little continuity in its operation. Privatisation, which is an action, which is tendering, covers 2,154 companies. These are the data that the Privatisation Agency provided us on December 13th of this year. From this privatisation, the sale price is 2.6 billion euros. Mandatory investments are 1.2 billion euros, but experience has shown that almost all businesses have gone far beyond those minimum investments envisaged. Very often we have a situation where investors see the talent of labour and opportunities that opens up the market of the Republic of Serbia, the environment, everything that the CEFTA has opened about, as well as our trade relations with the European Union, the duty-free regime (we are the only country in Europe, and that is valuable, which has such a regime with the Russian Federation), up until further negotiations in the EFTA, and that is the free trade market with Northern Europe, Switzerland. Negotiations for free exchange with Ukraine, Belarus and Turkey are also high. In this way, we open up all the opportunities for those who invest in Serbia to have a large market that can go out without any difficulty. In addition, the 276m-euro social programme. It is true that there have been problems, but in most cases, these social programs have been fully respected. It should be said that it doesn't even show part of the privatisation effect. Of course, money came from this into the Republic of Serbia's budget, but let's remind ourselves, and the AP Vojvodina budget. After the settlement, half the money went to that budget. Also, as far as local self-government is concerned, for auction privatisation, money went to the same budgets. So different levels of government had a direct financial effect from this privatisation. These figures don't cover the whole reality, because we also have the privatisation process of our financial sector. The estimate is that just over a billion euros has been earned from the sale of state stakes in banks. You saw a few weeks ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia had a very correct transaction for the DDOR. I will remind you that in 2003, the company was on the verge of taking over from foreign funds for a sum of six to eight million euros and we saw that it was privatised at a price four times the nominal capital, 1.9 times the premium of last year, which is 30% better than the average of Eastern Europe and the total value of that company is 264m euros. The effects that have been obtained through other forms of property transformation should be added to that. I realize it's not true that there's no social intelligence. Of course, when we talk about bankruptcy and liquidation, these are all difficult things, but we have to admit that we have had several very clear examples, such as recently the Belgrade Stock House or RTB Bor, which is currently ending, where through this process the state and state authorities come to funding, through the settlement of backlogs. There's a very significant asset that's been made here. Not to mention a special case of mobile network 063, which is the single and largest transaction of nearly 1.5 billion euros. When we sum up, we see that privatisation and property transformation in Serbia was a moment of direct income of no less than five billion euros in our country. It is an extremely significant figure for a country like Serbia and shows that it has taken place under good circumstances with a high dose of competition. However, selling is absolutely not the ultimate goal. It's just a means to achieve greater efficiency. I mean, because there was a little talk about it, that last year, for the first time in 15 years, the economy of the Republic of Serbia made a profit out of 100 billion dinars. For the first time in the economy, Serbia made a profit, and according to profit tax, this year's profits will be about 50% higher. That's where we see progress. The appointment of the owner is just a way to identify human nature, that then the owner has interests, attention and energy to deal more with the company's problems. Social property, everyone's and nobody's, was not the answer. It wasn't all bad in her, but private property turned out to be superior where she belongs. That is why we can say that among the top ten Serbian exporters, there are, with two exceptions, privatised companies. They're the base of our country's further progress. Finally, when we reach a 5.3% figure on the average of the average economic growth from 2001 to 2006, figures that will not be less than 7% this year, and expected economic growth of 6% next year, that is, respected MPs, Europe's record. I agree, we're starting with a lot of low branches. At the moment we have even more economic growth, when we have a larger gross domestic product per capita, these rates will be harder to realise, but I hope no one will complain that Serbia now has such performances and that despite numerous problems, it continues to attract attention. Therefore, it is my final word on these laws, we accept these amendments and amendments to the law that no process can be perfect. I'll answer a few questions there. It's true about "Vojina Popovic". That's what we were talking about. We're gonna have an appropriate meeting about this. As for Magnochroma in the King, the deadline of 17 December was given this year for the investor to fully settle all obligations concerning the social programme and investment. Otherwise, the contract will be terminated on December 18th and will go to find a better strategic partner for the company. Of course, we're very concerned about the situation at Magnochroma, and generally in the King, because there's a series of difficult cases we're going to be dealing with further. When we say that about 15% of the contract has been broken, it is an extremely good performance, and that means 85% of the cases have been fully implemented in the context of what was planned. So almost nine cases out of ten, and on the 1.5 case of ten that didn't go exactly the way it was expected, there were actually much smaller companies than larger companies, that's how it was done, and the termination of the contract is respect for the contract. It's simple, when you don't honor the contract, part of the contract is breaking up. In this way, we show that owners must be treated correctly after buying enterprises. Let me say a few final words about these two proposed laws. I sincerely hope that all parliamentary parties will support these laws. They are simply, on the one hand, the possibility of rounding up a very important process and at the same time correcting certain difficulties that could arise in a fair, correct and transparent rounding of the process. It's about the first law. As for the second law, let's offer together this chance to our citizens. That's more than half our population. We can give it a big chance at this point and a few debaters have talked about it. Of course, this law is not a goal in itself, but is one means to speed up three large processes. If you accept, and I hope that you will all accept, we will have a further discussion on the amendments, to get the support of all parliamentary groups, the law on the right to free action and the financial compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in this way we will together open up the possibility of around four million of our citizens, the full citizens, who have a place of residence in our country, we have talked about specific situations and we will try to, as far as temporarily displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, refugees and minorities, Roma, who sometimes do not have all the papers fully detailed, to solve these problems, so that all can simultaneously realise their own economic rights. And since this is also about voting law, it is an additional incentive to involve an increasing number of our citizens both in our country's political and public life. It will strengthen democracy. In addition, there were questions when they would be able to get those actions. As soon as you pass this bill, the preparation shop will begin. Since it is a huge number of citizens, it will certainly include the Post Office, as well as a series of other state institutions, exclusively state institutions, to record our citizens, which will be no longer than six months. It will be very broadly communicated, not only in the means of public information, they reach out to the vast majority of our citizens, but not to all, they will be filled with action on the ground, so that this information and opportunity for citizens to come to their rights, to all addresses, and to the most remote village, where there is no television, where there are people who, unfortunately, live in their own form of autorgy. In this way, we will strengthen the relationship between our citizens and this transition process. The question was, do you have any advice for the citizens? Is it true this is going to be 1,000 euros? The government of the Republic of Serbia has carried out a conservative assessment of the value of these companies and of the planned dynamics of coming to the market for these actions. The first thing I'm saying is that, taught experiences of sharing free shares in other countries, this law has made it very clear that none of the intermediaries, and at least those who want, as we heard during this discussion, to charge 600 dinars from citizens to register, are not able to do so. I have a message for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who will exercise their right through this law: do not accept any offer from any mediator. The only legal basis, but at the same time an absolutely and completely free way to exercise your rights, will be through mechanisms that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will determine as soon as this law is passed and that will be very widely communicated. It is likely that for a large number of citizens it will be through a simple form that will fill out, along with a personal map, on the Mail counters, but there will possibly be additional mechanisms for citizens, starting from the moment of application of this law, and at least six months, to be able to register. I would further like to tell all citizens, as well as employees and former employees of public enterprises: do not accept any offer from any mediator, whether it is someone in your environment, or whether it is someone who represents himself as an envoy of the government. None of them have any authority. Transporting your actions and rights to those actions, including a gift to those actions, is prohibited until these actions appear on the Belgrade Stock Exchange market and it takes six months to settle the market price. It's not paternalism, it's a way to avoid major scandals, a concentration that happens at market level. This way, we will protect you, citizens, protect you. And you will protect yourself by having, first, one transaction for each of these companies that will either be a capitalisation or an initial offer of shares of these companies on the stock market or a strategic partnership with certain partners that will unequivocally determine the price and value that will come through sharp competition among professional investors for such an enterprise. That way we'll have a clear price to trade at. If you ask me when people will get those rights, let us first adopt a privatisation strategy for these public enterprises. For each company, dynamics will be established individually. I expect that by the end of the next or early 2009 our citizens will be able to trade their actions. These actions will not come in one wave, but for the money already in place, because 68 companies have already deposited shares in the Privatization Register. The estimated market value of around 200-250m euros, divided into four million citizens, would not be economical after the sale of those shares. It is possible that, in the event that the sale or transaction and the value of the company was less than 200m euros, the government proposes to share revenues from the dinar stock after the sale of those shares. That's what's gonna be fixed. We'll have a register where citizens get what action, what money. We'll talk about it a lot. If there are six companies, that means that the number of times each citizen gets something from this program is likely to be six. But it's possible, if a transaction is too small, that it combines with someone who's going to be bigger. That, of course, we will certainly talk very extensively, inform and talk about it in this home for the next three years. Of course, for three large companies, NIS, EPS and Telekom, it will certainly be separate transactions and citizens will receive actions separately for each of these companies. I have to say that 1,000 euros is not a guarantee, but that's a conservative assessment. They are rightly debated who have said that those who were able to preserve actions of such valuable businesses after harvesting very significant dividends. These companies that we are talking about, EPS, NIS, Telekom, Galenika, Belgrade Airport, JAT -- these are all companies that have stable markets, which have a certain future, and thus, as seen in the past few years, are absolutely able to give dividends because some of them are already giving it. Action and revenue from actions, it is also market sales and revenue from the sale of the stock, but at the same time other income from the dividend action that you can collect and which for high-quality enterprises very often lead to the correct decision being to preserve the action and collect income from the dividend, waiting for the value of these companies to increase. I don't want today's value of giving no judgment or advice. Part of the market economy is that every citizen decides for himself how to dispose of his own property. However, our responsibility is the same to say that, as far as these companies are concerned, experience has shown that, if the expected economic growth of 6-7% in the years to come, in all countries in the transition of businesses of this type, and some of them are more quality than those in other countries in transition, they grew faster than the economy itself, so if growth is 6-7%, I think that the growth of income, and hence probably the profits of these companies will be in double-digital amount. So there's no store until the moment the stock goes into market and after six months. In this way, we have the possibility that no one cheats on our citizens, that they know what they have, what the price is, and then they decide with all the information that they will have their own property. It was the idea to divide these actions by another key, but in the end, as a good old principle of democracy, which may not be the best, but certainly the least bad system of one society's organisation, a full-time citizen -- the same rights. That's what we've established. As for employees and former employees in these companies, I repeat because there were several newspapers according to the text you initially received, due to the additional social dialogue, it is estimated that each employee, former employee, will on average receive 4,000 euros, which is a conservative estimate, 200 euros per year of employment, based on the estimated market value of the company prior to its privatisation. After social dialogue, these were initiatives and we agree on it (no copyright, because no one has the copyright to social dialogue) the possibility is accepted in businesses themselves to choose so-called. A bonus or get money instead of action. This is deleted at the request of the trade union itself, and we have accepted the possibility that, if they have already exercised certain rights in the social enterprise that has passed through the privatisation process, it does not eliminate them from being able to exercise their rights to actions in their own company if they have worked in it. If someone has worked for five or six years with the same company, has achieved the right in one company, and then spent 15-16 years in NIS, EPS or any legal predecessor of these companies, because now these amendments are better specified, some of these companies have experienced status changes, it is something that is possible and they will in the same way as all other employees and former employees in public enterprises will exercise their rights. That's the first part. The second part concerns the very changes in these public enterprises. Many debaters were absolutely right. This law will be the initial chapels, and also, if we are metronomes that will give rise to changes in our country's public sector, public enterprises will have to prepare much clearer financial reports. There's been a lot of talk about that. Public enterprises will no longer have any excuse to receive anyone, on boards or management personnel, from the eyes of the public, because then four million citizens with the government will seek transparency and transparency in their business. This way, where most of our population will be included in these changes, it will be the same relationship that has never existed between our citizens and public enterprises – EPS, NIS, Aerodrom. These companies will have much more pressure to be more efficient, but at the same time much more support to be better, because then there will be no more decision and assessment of any bureaucrat or politician whether this company should be developed, but a million of our citizens will want their actions to be worth it and that what is a national treasure will be promoted. I see here for our country, for these public enterprises, one huge chance, that the issue of service prices for these public enterprises, their business, becomes a matter of national debate, and I am sure that this way they will have much more pressure to be even better, to be business-regional leaders, as Telekom has begun to do, as our EPS has a chance to do. For each of these companies, one transparent decision will be made on the optimal form of privatisation, in no way trying to defend anything but our country's national interest. Third, now seemingly perhaps least important, but we will see through time, an extremely important effect of this law will be the expansion of action in our society. Why does it matter? It is ungrateful to estimate what percentage of our citizens who exercise these rights will want to sell their own actions at the very beginning. My honest advice, in terms of social empathy, if you will, is that someone called for me and the government, is to preserve these actions if they can. These are the most qualitative actions any country can offer its citizens. There are no predictables. There may be some companies that will grow faster, but these are the most stable companies that have our country, because they live off the consumption of all citizens and the entire economy. They are therefore in complete harmony with the development of our economy, without the extremely surprising movements up or down, they are stable. This is the basis in terms of action that is best possible for the introduction of a large number of our citizens into these financial flows. People's MPs who talked about the risks that exist because a large number of our citizens don't have enough knowledge in this matter are absolutely right. But let's look at this law and this process from another angle. Let's look at it as a huge opportunity, a huge opportunity for all of our citizens, because it will be such an interest in these actions that the public opinion funds themselves, and the press and the media, and a series of people who are going to make their own profession out of this to advise people at the moment of trading and spreading our financial services industry, all this will lead to the fact that Serbian citizens in our environment, in this part of Europe, and in this part of Europe, we are all going to make great efforts together, being the most educated, the most insightful and wisest about the relationship involved. Thus, it will be the best possible education and knowledge campaign for any country's market economy mechanisms. And it won't cost much, for those who ask, nor will this process cost much. And the profit is measured by billions, because at the same time as we talk about opening up the market for these companies, we're talking about the possibility that they can come up with very significant funds for their own development. As for Galenika, of course "Gallenika" has at this point a possible trade credit of 60,000,000 euros to build a factory of solid pharmaceutical products. Any recapitalisation will allow funds to be made to build a factory not in Turkey but in Serbia, thus making it an effective competitor in the domain of liquid pharmaceutical products, to be, as it used to be, a leader in the area of the pharmaceutical industry in this country. As for the Airport, there will be no majority sale of our airport, but through the capitalisation, it will have the means to participate equally with a certain partner through an international tender, to build together a large cargo centre that will make our capital, hence Serbia, a logistics centre of the Balkans. Our Telekom will be able to refinance the debt it has and move on in the expansion of the region. The EPS will come up with funds to further expand its own network, to go to the region, to be able to build new capacities, to carry out its own diversification towards renewable energy sources. No one said that EPS is a company that produces only electricity from lignite and hydropotentials, but it also needs, for its own future, to move into alternative forms of electricity production. If we consider NIS, it is clear that at this point there are significant needs for the modernisation of refineries. We see several very powerful regional leaders in this domain. It must be optimal for NIS to find a specific strategic partner. The government of the Republic of Serbia will do anything to make it in the interest of all our citizens. Dear People's MPs, this isn't the end of the privatisation story. We are left with one very important law that has not yet been passed, which is the law on denationalisation, i.e. restitution. At the same time, I can say that the Ministry of Finance has prepared the law, it is in public debate. In this way, by the end of 2010, our country, which means within a record period of 10 years, will be able to round up the privatisation of the social sector, to round up the process, the most difficult, enterprises that go through restructuring, liquidation, to round up full privatisation and restructuring of the financial sector, to make the shifts and partial opening of public sector capital extremely strong in such a way that it will be the most competitive in this part of Europe. I expect, honourable MPs, if we are to be able to see each other at the end of 2010, I promise, here in the Assembly, that we will have a very careful analysis and discussion of the effects of this law. Be assured that its effects will be extremely positive, even better than what privatisation has done so far. This is how we lay the foundations of our country's next period of economic development. Through this law, we will come to the means to build a significant number of capital and infrastructure projects and facilities. This decade, with all its challenges and difficulties, I am deeply convinced, and these two laws are an integral part of the project, will be recorded as a decade when Serbia managed to break out of poverty, when it was able to open perspectives for a vast majority of its citizens and establish a market economy that is also socially responsible. Thank you so much for your attention, and I hope you all vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14152	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic and his associates for the exhaustive exposé. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic came forward. Then Milisav Petronijevic and then the Messenger of the people Zvonko Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14153	In accordance with Article 200, it must be answered. Don't run, Deputy Prime Minister. You have to answer the question. Why are you running from the truth, Mr. Djelic? You see what kind of Deputy Prime Minister Serbia has, the one who deceives and lies. Mr. Djelic has accelerated like a little mouse. I asked Mr. Djelic a clear question which, under Article 200. Rules of Procedure, ask for an answer right now. And the question was simple. Since Mr Djelic is not there, however, there is no one from the DS anymore, with the exception of one or two MPs, I would ask you to pass it on to him, because Mr Djelic is acting as the main promoter of Mr Boris Tadic's campaign, and it will be very uncomfortable in this campaign when people ask Boris Tadic: Is it true that your promoter, the main man in your campaign, Deputy Prime Minister, participated in the privatisation of the company "Trebič" from Sokobanja, through his company called "House of Europe Invest B.V." from Vassenara in the Netherlands, with a man who is a member of the tobacco mafia and currently in custody? That question requires an answer. Mr Djelic's company had a 48.5% stake in the privatisation of the company "Trebič" from Sokobanja, which meant hotel "Sun", restaurant "Connaci" and 1,200 hectares of the country in Sokobanja. This is all based on data from the Business Registers Agency. When Mr. Djelic entered the campaign for the prime minister, then the faster-better part of him was transferred to the company "The Galileo Limited" from the Virgin Islands. Then all these miles of stories, perspectives, idylls, megaprojects, swearing to a happy future... What kind of 2010, how do I see you in 2010? If Serbia is a legal state by then, Mr Djelic will not only be in parliament, but he will be in another place where he will be able to think about the crime he leaves behind. We're just going to talk about his stakes in Citadel, Mitea, Energy Project, etc. That's what we promise you. It's going to be a campaign, because the truth needs to be looked into the eyes, whatever she is, and even when you're friends with one of the heads of the tobacco mob.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14154	The word is given to the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament said Mr. Djelic ran away. Mr Djelic is giving another election speech here, as well as the one where the debate was opened last night. Whenever he has to face questions, he has some kind of obligation and comes out. I want to ask a question, in accordance with Article 226, so at least let him prepare it when the debate starts in particular, according to the amendments. We promised him last night that we would give him a lot of opportunities to answer a number of specific questions about privatisation. Let me just comment briefly. Mr. Djelic is right when he says that when you subtract 15 from 100, you get 85. But, Mr. Djelic, that doesn't mean 85% of privatisation is well done. That's just mathematically correct, because in those 85% are both Magnochrom and Central Market, so that I don't pick up any further, and it's not a broken contract. Those are the questions he'll have to answer when he's here. Otherwise, I completely agree, that it is not only against that approach which Mr Djelic has given, which is a suggestion for citizens to preserve actions, because it will be worth more. The best example was the workers of Hemopharm, the Apathian brewery, the Book of Milosha, and not to add any further. Although they are privatized under that law on their own transformation, it's just saying it was good. Of course, there are still a number of small shareholders after that, and unfortunately, the state didn't take them for protection, and in order to have more information than this privatisation. I warn Serbian citizens that if they do not get a concrete answer, there is a big scam ahead. Last night, I asked Mr. Djelic if it was true that this law puts out of force a member of the 9th Law on Public Enterprises. For what? Because this law on free action rights provides for 15% of the value of shares to be shared free of charge to citizens and up to 200 euros per year of internship for employees, former employees of enterprises, etc. I ask directly: will the provision of that same member of the law be applied, will the rest be shared alongside those 15% of free shares to the citizens when they are distributed to the employees of the free action, which is about 7, 8, or 9%, will it also go to the Privatization Register, because that is what the law says, that is, from there to the citizens, so it will not be 15% but will be at least 20%? It's a huge amount of money, because it's public enterprises, huge wealth, huge values. So I insist on that answer, because this law repeals Article 9a. We're gonna have a hell of a fight about it when there's an amendment debate. It also cancels the article. 52nd and 53rd. The Privatization Act. I warn citizens that Djelic will be well asked to answer whether it will end only at this 15% or from the rest, when workers and former employees are given up to 15%, as a member of the 9th Law says, they will also be divided into citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14156	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14157	Article 226. So, one question, and it concerns something that got all the MPs' groups and refers to the Iron Railway Vehicles factory in Smederev. The letter, petition, appeal or warning was sent by the representative union Union-work movement, which has, in practice, about half of 1,600 employees and 1,700 employees in this company, which has quality factory halls located in the area of about 10 hectares. The estimated value of the factory a few years ago was 38,000,000 dollars. Now such a factory is sold for just over a million euros to the only buyer, Romania's Grampet. I'm just reading what the Syndicate delivered, I'm not saying anything. The letter says that only one monthly production realization is worth more than half a million euros. It is also said that this privatisation could be expected because the firm Grampet is a long-standing partner of JP "Serb Railways", which is again the founder of the Railway Vehicles Factory "Zelvos". Through the Irons, according to here, the daughters of the railway company have been uncontrollably leaving money for over ten years and a suspicious compensatory job has been done. All this reportedly has never been responded by the budgetary authorities, nor has JP "Serb Railways" conducted any control, or serious audit, nor has there been a budget audit. Because of this attitude, the state's most senior leadership of the Railways and the Irons, Smederevo organized a strange project here called the Great Project of Reconstruction and Repair of 1,000 wagons. The project is said to have robbed more than 10,000 euros in two years. A number of criminal charges were filed here, and the money from the budget and the Railways was poured over Jelvos into the accounts of fictitious companies. For 1,700 workers, the social programme of such privatisation has not been defined, and they are now protesting, strike, recalling a member of the tender commission in the ranks of employees named Dragan Milijasevic, and claim that he was past the will of the employees involved in the work of the tender commission. We've seen it through the media...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14158	Thank you, colleague Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14159	I'm done. So I'm looking for an answer to this question on behalf of the Union Labour Movement, which represents half of the 1,700 employees of the Irons in Smederev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14160	The word has been issued by MP Zdravko Topalovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens, Mr Djelic today showed all his concerns by leaving the Assembly before this debate is over. The Democratic Party, apparently, will have to teach it much more politically, since today, with its esthetic performance, it could have caused the government to fall here by irritated the MPs with its election rally. It thus risked the blockade of parliament's work, failure to adopt the government's budget and fall. To be clear, the SRS is sincerely hoping that this government will fall down as soon as possible and go to the dumps of history, in fact, in some non-refundable way. This speaker was abused by Bozidar Djelic. He said an unprecedented nonsense, that on January 20th, if Tomislav Nikolic wins the election, Serbia will move forward through uncertainty. Most Serbian citizens know it is not true, because winning Tomislav Nikolic in the presidential elections will lead Serbia to improve in all domains, from business, security, co-operation to friends in the world like Russia, etc. I have to do something about the minister again. He says that in 2010 we will see each other in this Parliament and comment on the effects of this law. And yesterday, I mentioned, in 2010, I will be happy to read Mr Djelic's memoirs, which he will write in one of Serbia's penal and correctional institutions. The subject and these privatisations by means of a free share of action could certainly be Bozidar Djelic himself if he would put his actions, as a matter of principle, his left hand -- his right pocket, into traffic and share it with the people. To avoid any speculation in the public, the SRS does not mind if Serbian citizens receive 1,000 euros each in free action. What's not good is that this law is really electoral. The law was to be prepared thoroughly, and Serbia's citizens would probably get more than 1,000 euros in actions. We have expressed concern that the Government may, by means of its tycoon-based speculative measures, have these actions, God forbid, to degrade, so that citizens, when they put those actions on the market, experience an unpleasant surprise, that those actions are not worth 1,000 euros. As far as the privatisation law itself is concerned, you have seen, even the MPs of the position have acknowledged here, that the SRS has made a lot of amendments to make this law, which is bad, not worse. Consider them carefully and read them. We are against the fact that the Agency has every authority in the privatisation process. It is not good to reach immediately for the liquidation of business entities if they do not privatise, I mean business entities owned by state and social capital. You provided for the deadline of 31.12.2008, but if until then state and social capital is not privatised, it should not immediately reach for liquidation and an auction and public tender should be opened until such time as these companies are not privatised, because this will certainly be a small number of economic operators, not a larger one. Today, as MPs, I was very surprised by the National Bank of Serbia's monetary policy programme in 2008. See how Mr Jelasic delivers the 2008 Monetary Policy Programme. It is extremely unserious and offensive, in about 30 points in A4 format – that is enough for him to have such a serious discussion. Once again, consider the amendments of the SRS in order not to make this law worse, to improve a little bit. To repeat, the SRS has no objection and advocates that Serbian citizens get free action, but that they get more than 1,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14162	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I am concluding a principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, and - Proposal for a Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. We move to the 4-9th item of the agenda: the joint principled search on the proposal for BUDGETS SYSTEM AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CITIZEN, THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTIONS, THE REPUBLIC OF THE SERBIA GOVERNMENT AND THE COMMISSION OF THE PRETTY ASSISTANCE (IPA) I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 94, the joint principle and uniform search by points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the opening of the search, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary groups. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party - one hour 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party - one hour 16 minutes 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus - 22 minutes 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes 12 seconds, MP Group Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List of Sandzak, Roma Serb Union, Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. MPs who don't belong to any of the MPs, one MP, five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the representatives of the parliamentary groups are on these agenda points: on behalf of the SPS Milan Nikolic, DSS-NS Vladan Vukicevic, DS - Dragan Vujadinović, LDP - Nebojsa Rangelović, SRS - Veroljub Arsic and Zdravko Topalović. In accordance with Article 140(2) and Article 142a(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the Budgetary System, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Taxation of Business, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads and a Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on Co-operation Rules relating to the Financial Assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Serbia in the framework of the Rules of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA). Does Minister Mirko Cvetkovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a representative of four laws, which are: the draft law on the budgetary system, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on corporate profits, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I intend to give a brief explanation of the need and content of the adoption of these laws. With the exception of the budget system law, these three laws are classic tax laws that are normally passed in the context of budgeting for the next calendar year. In the past, they were even united with the budget. However, this time they are united within the second point, but there is no problem in considering them this way. When it comes to the law on the budget system, it should be borne in mind that the first law was passed in 2002. At the moment he was brought in, he was a revolutionary achievement in that domain, and his task was to ensure transparency and enable the smooth development of the entire budget system, from the planning of the budget itself, the adoption and subsequent implementation of it. Since 2002, however, there has been a series of changes and the need to modernise this law, with the thought of making changes and supplementing them. Finally, when the volume of change was considered, however, it was concluded that this should be a new law, not an existing one. One of the main reasons why this was treated as a new law is the need to integrate two laws into this new law - the initial law on the budgetary system and the Law on public incomes and expenditures, which was as special and whose certain items were already out of force in the meantime. So it's done in this proposal and now we have a budget system law that integrates both of these laws. Another important change is to give more precise definitions, clarifications related to the problems that have been observed so far in the implementation of the budget system law. Also, the new law on the budgetary system provides for a commitment to include certain legal entities established under the Agency's Law, which have not been included in the vault system so far. It was very difficult to monitor and ensure transparency in the collection and spending of funds by these legal entities established by the state. Finally, the third major difference in the budget system law is the gradual introduction of a commitment to make three-year budgets, not an annual one. However, the current system proposes an annual budget, and in the Memorandum we have projections for the next two years. However, we have noticed that long-term projects appear in the budgets, so you are unable to cut them into a year. For this reason, it was necessary to introduce this possibility into the law on the budgetary system at the outset, and later on, by saying that this is a modern solution, which appears in other countries in the world. So these are the basic reasons and basic newspapers that were given under the budget system law. I would briefly refer to the three remaining laws relating to the budget itself. I'll start with the Company Tax Act. The reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the laws adopted after the last amendments to the Company Tax Act have been adopted, so that they too needed to be changed to take into account, in the meantime, that is to say, the system law. Also, it was necessary to specify individual legal solutions and remove ambiguities in their application. The proposed amendments and additions to the Company Tax Act have a lot to say about two or three, which I consider to be very important. First, for the first time, we have the possibility of being so-called. fiscal and calendar years vary. So far, we have had the situation that for each economic operator, the calendar and fiscal years are identical -- they start on January 1st and end on December 31st. It is now possible for certain economic operators, who are authorised by the Ministry of Finance or by the National Bank and who explain these reasons, to start their fiscal years with some other date, which is more appropriate for their actions, e.g. 1 February or 1 May. Of course, the fiscal year, as well as the calendar year, lasts for always 12 months, only if 1 February starts, it ends on 31 January next year. Also, it is not possible for these economic entities to choose for one year, and to return to the classical calendar system next year, but to function for at least five years in this new regime. It's one of the major newspapers that's being introduced. Another newspaper refers to the establishment and collection of capital gains tax, which was otherwise subject to considerable interest. We've tried now, in this law, to introduce certain reliefs. I'd paraphrasise that the next way. So far, it was necessary to pay taxes when stocks are sold and capital gains are established. If someone participated during the year in a number of transactions, then he repeatedly paid capital gains tax over the year. For residents, tax is now allowed to be paid once a year and cumulatively for all transactions made during the year, with the possibility that in some of these transactions capital loss, which would then be a deductible item of the total position of that entity that participated in the market. The third significant change is that the possibility is now introduced that, for the purpose of determining the capital gain, the purchase price of the assets can be adjusted to an estimated fair value if the change in fair value is shown in general as the income of the period during which it was made. So this is basically about the possibility that it's not going to some nominal value, it's about a fair value that's now a base, and that's where capital gains come from. There are other changes, however, these are the most important. When it comes to the Law on Income Tax, the reasons for the proposed changes have been complemented by the need to tax-stimulating the development of the market and transport of securities of value, different arrangements for beating capital losses with capital gains (this is what I was talking about in the company), and extends the coverage of citizens by annual income tax. The most significant proposed changes and additions are as follows. In order to encourage the development of the paper market of value, the proposal is to lower the capital gains on these transactions. At this point, it's 20%. The proposal is to split up and, since the adoption of this law, we have predicted from January 1st, we hope that it will be adopted, it will be 10%. Also, the way capital gains are determined differently. It's a story identical to that of companies. Also with citizens, it is determined once a year. Tax incentives are also introduced for the development of agriculture in the form of the release of farmers from the obligation to pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry. , on catastrian income, for a period of two years, means for 2008 and 2009, and also, through a reduction in the rate of income tax on agriculture and forestry from 14% to 10%. Finally, the subject of taxation is being extended by an annual income tax on citizens' incomes and interest-based incomes, which has not been the case so far. These are the basic amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. When it comes to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, the amendments entered and the reasons are the following. First of all, we had fees that remained in the formal jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. It was necessary to make changes, so that these fees are now defined as charges belonging to Serbia, which is also given in this proposal, after the state's collapse. It was also necessary to bring the fees in question into line with the files and actions that are in the jurisdiction of the authorities for whose work these taxes are and are paid, which is also related to this new system and to the transfer of taxis. The amendments to the tax obligations for individual files and actions have been made, in both directions - there are proposals for both reduction and increase - and this is given in terms of compliance with complexity, in agreement with the initiatives submitted by the competent ministries and other bodies that provide these services. Dear Members, these are the brief content and reasons for the adoption of these four laws for which I am the rapporteur. I think the suggestions you're facing are good. Also, we'll listen to your discussion and review the amendments you've given. In the end, I urge you to give your vote for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14164	Thank you, Minister. Does the other rapporteur, Minister Velimir Ilic, want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word Mr. Velimir Ilic, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14165	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, we have submitted a request, an amendment to the Law on Public Roads, where the excise from fuel from 10% increases in 2008 to 15%, and then, next year, to 20%. You know that the introduction of VAT has earned the obligation to pay VAT on all works carried out in the travel industry. This 10% of the excise amount was not enough to settle obligations and move on to maintenance of road infrastructure. Because of the budget that was prepared, we were unable to increase to that number that was needed, 20%, this year and next, so the proposal was to get it into effect after a year, and by then a change was made to 15% of the excise duties charged for the sale of oil derivatives. I hope you'll support this because the roads for these two years have had a lot of problems, and the debts are real on this basis because there was no other way to regulate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14166	Thank you. The word has Dragan Vujadinovic, the authorised representative of the DS at this point, and after that, Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic, the authorised representative of the LDP. Here you go, colleague Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14167	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a set of tax laws that normally follow the annual budget of the Republic of Serbia. It would be best if this set of tax laws had a reduction in these tax rates each year, but should be expected that in the coming years, when the gross social product grows, such trends will also occur in terms of tax rates. In my presentation, I'll give a few words about three laws. I will point only to the most interesting and interesting parts of these laws. First of all, the draft budget system law. Under the law, it is obvious that the introduction of a three-year budget is a practical entry of the Republic of Serbia into a family of countries that plan public finances in the medium term. It's the most important newspaper. So, three-year period, all over a year, is medium-term planning. The first three-year budget, agreed on a three-year budget system, should be in 2010 and it should be valid for 2010, 2011 and 2012, where we would practically have a movement and budget and a gross social product and other macro-aggregations projected in three years, thus practically monitoring the country's macroeconomic economy at the medium-term level. We know, we have already seen in the Memorandum of Budgets, that for 2010 the budget was projected at 3,485 billion or 42,27 billion euros, according to the current level of the euro, i.e. in 2007 with 4,000 or 4,050 euros per capitulation per capita, in 2010, we would have 5,600 euros per capita. This would also coincide with serious budget planning at a three-year level. Practically, if we say that the budget would be around 23% that year, we would have about 2,400 billion budgets, i.e. the current 30 billion euros in the three-year budget of the Republic of Serbia. We hope all of us, and we demand, hopefully all the parliamentary groups, that in such a three-year budget, the development component, whether it concerns infrastructure, whether it concerns paying off the principal, any other investment activities, will be more represented and far more represented than it is now. The second is profit tax law. We are already a country that is now at a profit tax rate at the lower border, has the lowest profit tax rate in Europe. It's 10%. It is favourable that in the 2008 budget we have a projected, planned profit of 34 billion dinars, i.e. about 400m euros or 5.32% of total budget revenues, which is a significant increase compared to the previous year. As regards tax expenditure, i.e. tax credit, the only change was, and it was probably considered necessary from the point of view of public finances, to be a tax credit, i.e. a tax deduction for the legal entity's representation, as it is now called, instead of three percent compared to the total income of 0.5%. In particular, in the context of the profit tax law, I would point out the tax exemptions relating to investment in fixed assets, i.e. investments. Here we have that graduation - 20% of the investment in fixed assets, with 50% of the tax charged. It's a general tax release 20%. This general release is immediately doubled for small businesses and amounts to 40% of the tax charged, and then doubles again, goes geometrically, means 80% for special activities, such as agriculture, fishing, skin, shoes, recycling, basic metals, processing industry, etc. So it's 20-40-80%. In particular, I would point out here a tax exemption in underdeveloped areas, where all legal persons in investment have been exempt from income tax for five years, with the condition that investment in fixed assets, in investments, will be 8,100,000 euros, that five additional employees, four or 80% of whom would live, have a residence or residence in an underdeveloped area. The special tax relief applies to potentially large investors of 10m euros, or 800m dinars, and additional employment of 100 workers. They have been tax-free for ten years, the relative amount of that investment investment, means all over the next ten years, if 10m euros are invested in the current ones and employs an additional 100 workers. I think that the preferences that the state, or public finances, have put into this law even earlier, and now further improves to create an investment climate necessary for the country's development and to achieve those rates or to exceed the gross social product rates already planned six percent for the next year and six and a half percent for 2009 and 2010. The third is the Law on Income Tax. Based on this budget revenue, 72 billion dinars or 11.26 of the total budget are planned in the budget. Already, the minister said, the rate of income from agriculture generally decreases from 14% to 10%, with the fact that in 2008 and 2009, for known reasons, it is practically exempt from the income tax from agriculture. The tax rate is also said to be on capital gains for natural persons treated by the Law on Income Tax is reduced double, with the rate also applicable to holders, having securities of value. Some countries in the environment have completely freed themselves from paying capital gains taxes for securities holders. We have a 10% rate left, i.e. a double rate, but an additional condition is set - to practically free the payment of the capital gains tax holder of securities if he has them in a portfolio, in possession, continuously for three years. Another newspaper is very important for individuals when paying taxes on citizens' income. It was predicted earlier that capital gains and capital losses would be beaten during the same year. Now that deadline has been extended to ten years. Therefore, capital gains and capital loss from the sale of natural persons' assets can be beaten against each other over the next ten years, which certainly creates one great advantage in the transport of real estate and other forms of physical property, taxpayers. Third point, I'd like to give an example. Forming, i.e. the tax on the income of citizens. I think this part of the story is really interesting, one presentation to precisely account for the income tax of citizens. One, all proceeds are formed, from all areas. For example. MPs have incomes: salaries, travel expenses above the untaxable part and diaries above the non-taxable part, if they do not have other revenues. All proceeds are accumulated. That's point one. Then there's the tax limit -- it's the non-taxable part, it's the average three salaries times 12 months. It's at this point, if it's 30,000 net earnings, 1,080,000. It's practically non-taxable income. The difference of all income minus non-taxable income is income for taxation, gross income. Taxation income is deducted from the tax rate, a 40% reduction for the taxpayer from the average salary in Serbia and for each supported person another 15% from the average in Serbia, with those reductions not being able to exceed 50% of the non-taxable income, i.e. from the 1,080,000. So all these releases can't go past 540,000 right now. After that, as a difference, comes the tax base. It's shaped like a difference and applied to the rate. For the first million, the rate difference is 10%, and on the tax income, more than a million feet is formed by 100,000 for the first million and plus 15% for income over the first million. In our case, for example. If we take the current receipts of MPs, travel expenses, diaries at this time, therefore, one average Serbian MP should pay about 45,000 on an annual basis, given these initial parameters. In conclusion, this concludes my discussion, it is about the laws accompanying the budget, which, as far as possible and how much space was available in public finances, gave certain preferences, and in this sense should expect further improvement of tax laws in the coming years, reduction of tax rates, to the extent that Serbia's economy, i.e. the gross social product, will allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14168	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word has Nebojsa Rangelovic, an authorised representative of the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14169	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, allow me to express my sincerest condolences to my colleague, Jorgovanki Tabakovic, on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group. When I spoke to you, I wish I had said "respectful Mr. Minister" or "honored Ministers," but I wasn't in a position because they're not in the O.R., neither are their representatives, and I'm very sorry about that, although it is a picture of opportunities and approaches and ways of passing laws these days in the National Assembly. The discussions on system laws are indeed taking place in a strange atmosphere. The general feature of this procedure is teat, confusion, confusion, and the desire to get these laws through the congregation, as if it were an unpleasant job that should be finished as soon as possible, then washed hands and forgotten all of it. Meanwhile, ministers are dropping work in front of MPs, not answering parliamentary questions. To remind you, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, has flagrantly violated a member of the 200th Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. He simply, not only did he not want to answer the question he was asked, but he escaped from the O.R. at that point. So ministers do not answer parliamentary questions and treat their stay in the assembly as something terribly unpleasant, which should be ended as soon as possible and without too much noise. That's what MPs behave like. In fact, just before Minister Cvetkovic had his own exposés, referring to the law on the budget system and on several important changes and additions to important system laws, DS lawmakers could not count on their fingers. There were fewer than one at a time. The number one theme is elections, and what we as MPs are doing in parliament seems to be of no importance at all. They don't care about the system laws, but they seem to have a 99. The law on selecting Members of Parliament and how well known and well treated in their ranks, because this member of the law treats the establishment of an election control board, which is applied accordingly and to the very, very other day, the elections called. This member, among other things, treats and access to the Media Control Board and, of course, should not be too wise to conclude what will be the access of tycoon media and what they are doing in this election campaign that has been dirty since the very beginning. However, if I hadn't been too far away from the topic, since these were only principled objections to the general process of passing important laws in parliament, I would have moved to a metric point. I'm very sorry that my questions won't have anyone to record and serve them to the minister so we can get answers. I hope the minister will be so kind as to look at the stenographic notes from these sessions and to get familiar with what the MPs are interested in. In particular, we have a grudge that the system laws are being filed in a joint five-hour principled search, and many of these laws deserve to be discussed in parliament at least that much if not more. As far as the draft bill on the budget system is concerned, I'd go as far as I'm concerned. I would like to mention Article 2 first, point 1 and 2. The text reads: "The Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia is the law... '". Namely, these members are given definitions which the National Assembly approves of expenditures and revenues and other financial transactions of the Republic of Serbia for one or three years. Similarly, point 2 of this article, which treats the adoption of the province's budget and the adoption of the budget of local self-government. Later on, I'll bring it into contact with Article 45, whose comment I'll make at the very end of my presentation. I would ask the question: Is the economic situation in Serbia mature enough and can it take this kind of approach in the budget system law that says the budget can be passed in three fiscal years, what does Article 45 speak of? We didn't get any answers to that question. Like the fact that the minister is gone, he's probably not interested in it. Furthermore, a question for all members of the ruling coalition, if the coalition still exists, and if their conflict over the election is not only a farce that some agreement is behind it. The same member, point 34, speaks of the development aid of the European Union. It can also be linked to Article 33(9), which also speaks about the assessment of the necessary funding for co-financing of development programmes financed by the European Union's development aid. I would ask the question to the Ministers and all representatives of the ruling coalition: Does the Government have a common position on this issue, in line with the fact that it is in the government's bill of law, because we know that the prime minister has repeatedly said that if this policy continues to address the Kosovo issue, it is not a place in the European Union, and has several times expressed his open hostility towards the idea of access to the European Union and close ties with NATO? And we didn't get an adequate answer to this question. I would also like to make a very concrete remark on Article 43, which reads: The amending budget proposal by the National Assembly, or the local government assembly, must be within the maximum deficit set out in the draft budget of the Government, i.e. the competent executive body of the local authorities. This is legal nebulosis. How can such a law limit a body, or body that exercises legislative authority? The restrictions of the National Assembly, like bodies that exercise legislative authority, can only be given by the Constitution. I don't know who wrote this law, but apparently it's disabled with elementary legal knowledge. In the end, I'd like to make a few comments on Article 45. I brought him in on Article 2, when I was talking about points 1 and 2 of this article, where the definition of a fiscal year is. "The fiscal year is considered a period of twelve months, from January 1st to December 31st of the calendar year. The budget can also be delivered for a period of three fiscal years." So then he says in Section 6: The government makes a decision on temporary financing and agrees on a decision on the temporary financial plan of a mandatory social security organisation', etc. What does this mean? It means that the budget can be made in three fiscal years, in advance for three years next year, that the government can control the temporary financing. So, the top of the government tells us: we don't need elections, we can do whatever we want, and if we seduce the state of emergency, we'll have both the budget and the temporary funding, and you, gentlemen Members of Parliament, are still doing your job wasting your time in parliament. Mr. Chairman, I would use the other ten minutes following the LDP parliamentary group to give the final word. I would once again object: why are Mr. Ministers not present when discussing such important issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14170	Thank you, colleague Rangelovic. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. The first speaker at 15.00 hours is counterpart Zdravko Topalovic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14171	Dear People's MPs, we continue our afternoon work. Before we go any further, I'll give you a notice. According to Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will extend the work after 1800 hours for the efficiency of the work. Thank you for your understanding and for your support. The word is by MP Vlado Sekulic, according to the Rules of Procedure. The minister will be a little late, you must have understanding, your obligations are great. Here you go, Mr. Sekuli.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14172	I'm reporting for an officer. 225 and 226. First I have to express a protest on behalf of the SRS. What are we gonna talk about here? We've brought together a discussion of several laws, and there are no ministers. Mr. Velimir Ilic came, told two changes, left, the others do not appear. I'll tell you exactly why I came out. I've been called by citizens to point to abuse by Mr. Gilas. On TV, a report shows that a car landed in a ditch in the area of Babusnica and suddenly Mr. Gilas appeared and his 15-body security guard, the cameras immediately created there, he leaned onto the car, the rest of them being helping something. I'm really protesting. This is already starting a campaign. Mr. Gilas abuses the position. He abuses television to propagate himself and the Democratic Party to the accident of the man who landed in the car. Now it's like 15 of them pulling him out. I wonder where all of a sudden a news car and cameras were created to record all of this? I'm afraid, like Gilas and his security detail, that they deliberately pushed someone into that ditch, so like now they're helping be benefactors. I'm sorry, but I have to point out because this is really embarrassing. We don't have ministers in the Assembly, we are insulted, the Assembly, by the citizens of Serbia, but that's why on television Mr. Gilas is shown neatly as a benefactor helping someone. As you set out, likely to propose for a humane act this year, it will enter the annals. This is really a flagrant violation of the law and everything. First you, Mr. Chairman, bring your MPs from the ruling coalition and the ministers who need to come here, listen and say something, not come for a minute or two, and now we'll wait until they're late. Did they also go to Babusnica to help get that car out?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14173	Thank you, Mr. Sekuli. It's understandable when you travel to television, so they might have come along. We're expecting the Minister's arrival. I'm asking for your understanding. The word is by MP Zdravko Topalovic, an authorised representative of the SRS. (Zravko Topalovic, from the post: No Minister. I really ask you, Mr. Topalovich, let's get to work. Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS-NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, SPS and LDP. We'll move on to a speech in order of the MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Amjad Migati has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14174	In accordance with Article 104. Mr. Vice President, you really are now insulting the intelligence of the MPs because twice you will deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure. When he spoke of the tasteless behavior of Minister Gilas, you made it clear he had to have television teams. Where's that? How can she do that? Why didn't Mr. Ilic come with the team? Don't say that. Secondly, you know, when a search opens, there must be a government representative present because we don't talk to each other but with the promoter. How can you start if there are no authorised representatives? You can't do that. Why do you allow yourself to violate, insult us, I don't know what else? Don't, stick to the Rules of Procedure. Please be serious, that the minister shows he's a serious minister, that the government is a serious government, that he really wants in the Assembly to see how their laws are there, and not -- we have proposed the law to you, do what you want, we don't care, we have a majority and we'll pass the law. So, let's take that point down, we don't have to discuss it, but -- bring the laws, vote like most people and nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14175	Thank you, Mr. Migati. I understand your criticism. The minister will be here in a few minutes, and we won't be taking a new break, so we're going in a row of MPs. The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14176	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I don't mind the ministers not being here right now. Today we adopt one set of laws, amendments to tax laws and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. What's important at this point is the bill on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. That's where I'll stay the most. The basic question is for all of us, including for the citizens of Serbia: do we need roads? So the second question is, how do we need roads? So, what else is important: why do we need roads? First question – do we need roads? – we all know that we need roads, that Serbia has a lot of construction infrastructure. What is important – what are the ways we need? - We need good roads. Why do we need these good ways? Of course, primarily because of Serbian citizens, to feel that they live in the 21st century, and then, of course, because of the development of the economy and the overall state of Serbia. To have good and quality roads, that's worth it. That's why the country needs to allocate funds. There are several ways, from which funds are allocated for the construction and maintenance of roads, but unfortunately, and fortunately, in the past period, a lot of roads have been built from various funds, from loans, loans, but the budget was not intended for maintenance. In order to have good and quality roads, we must also maintain them. For this reason, this law on public roads changes, in the sense that from the already existing rate, which is set aside for excise duties, the percentage that will be given to the 'Roads of Serbia', in the sense that the 10% so far of excise duty, which was used by the 'Serb Roads', will now be 15% and in 2009 - 20%. It is important to stress here, because of the citizens of Serbia, that this percentage of the allocation from the road excise will not cost citizens and, of course, economic operators. So it doesn't increase their cost. This solution will allow the Serbian Roads to receive 12,058,000,000 in the coming year, and in 2009, when the excise duty rate is 20%, 16,100,000 dinars. The main goal is better and better quality road maintenance, which is of the interest of all citizens of Serbia, especially those involved in traffic that regularly use these roads. What is the basic goal and what is the gain of such maintenance of roads? Of course, the acceleration of the economy. Where there are times - there are developments in the economy, and where the economy is developing - there is also employment It is the basic goal and task of all of us who are involved in politics, simply to create a favourable environment and climate that will enable the creation of new jobs. As much as it seems to someone that building a road infrastructure doesn't get a lot of new jobs, I think it's the other way around -- it's building good infrastructure that creates business relations, it's developing business facilities, besides these roads that create new business entities, and that's why it employs a large number of people. Let's not talk about the co-modity of traffic participants and, of course, creating an overall normal environment for the citizens of Serbia. At the end of the line, when we brought the Constitution, we said we would fight for a more overall Serbia's development. We know that there are parts of Serbia that are weak and less developed. Road infrastructure is one of these, of course, very significant factors affecting the development of certain regions. As far as these undeveloped areas are concerned, the Ministry of Infrastructure has done a lot over the past period, it has been built about 300km times, and does not mean that more should be done in the next period. To point out once again, because of Serbian citizens, the excise duty for the next year and 20% in 2009 does not increase excise duties. That's very important. So, economic operators and citizens have no new imposition or cost as far as this detachment is concerned for travel infrastructure. Other tax laws also allow and reduce the cost of amending and supplementing these laws and make it a better business environment in Serbia, and thus greater employment. I hope, as the Transport and Communications Committee has unanimously reached a decision and agreed that this law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads should be adopted, that this Parliament will do so, to the satisfaction of all of us MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, most importantly, the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14177	Thank you, Mr. Vukevic. The People's MP Lasslo Varga came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14178	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is Section 1, under which MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, this member of the Rules of Procedure violated on 10 December this year, when he told the speaker that his ministry had prepared information with a proposal for a conclusion that goes to the government on Thursday, i.e. yesterday, seeking to stop media privatisation in the languages of national minorities. (President: Mr. Varga, I apologize, are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure retroactively, from four days ago? We'll get in trouble if we do that. ) This breach of the Rules of Procedure was done practically that day, but the consequences happened today. Now I'll explain it to you. Mr. Minister said that at the time, yesterday was the cabinet session, and today he appeared in "Politica" an invitation to privatise two media in the languages of national minorities -- Radio Backo Topola and Radio Novi Becej. I think this is totally disrespect for the National Assembly because the minister, who is a guest in this house, is obliged to speak the truth when he comes out for this pay phone. I think I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I pray that this injury to the Rules of Procedure in the day of the National Assembly vote be declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14179	Thank you, Mr. Varga. The word is by MP Zdravko Topalovic, an authorised representative of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14180	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, I must express my protest. The minister must have counted on an authorised representative of the SRS to be finished with his speech, but that didn't happen. We have waited patiently for the minister because we believe it is the prime order for the minister to be there when the law is discussed. You surprised me, Mr. Cvetkovic, at least you are of all ministers, although very often lashed and attacked by me, but you were always there defending your option, unlike the Duke of Mickey Mouse who escaped from this assembly faster than he came into it. As for the amendment and addition of the Company Tax Act and the Law on Income Tax, I have only one comment – late Marko is arriving in Kosovo. For what? With certain changes and supplements, you're too late. You argue that by adopting this set of laws, there will be a significant discharge in the economy itself. That's a fact. It is normal that with a lower tax rate, there is a disbursement of businesses, but the economy is so poor that you can count on the fingers of one-hand enterprises that are profiting in Serbia today. As far as this set of laws is concerned, the SRS has made a number of amendments, as we say, in order to improve these laws and make their application better in practice. As for the expenditure you take in recognition of the tax balance for tax breaks, this law did not correct these expenditures for health, education, humanitarian, religious, scientific, human environment protection and remained at 3.5%. I think you could have corrected that percentage, so that the legal people would have tax breaks not only three percent compared to gross profit, but some significant percentage, which would be fine. You probably know of such a positive example, not countries in the environment, never take them as an example again, because I would never like to be like Croatia or BiH banana states. We, Serbia, strive to be a serious state. Take, for example, some developed countries. As for beating up capital gains with capital loss, that's quite all right, but it doesn't need to be limited. With this law, you tried to limit it to five years. It was ten years ago. It was quite right that beating should last as long as there was a disparity, i.e. the difference between capital gains and capital loss. This should not be limited to some time limit, although ten years, as foreseen under the old law, is quite enough to beat the profit with capital loss. As far as the tax law is concerned, the SRS is the attitude, you know, that everything can always be cheaper, and therefore administrative fees, so they can be lower. One part of the jurisdiction over fees was in the SCG state community. Now these fees go to the authority of the Republic of Serbia. Just because Serbia takes charge of these fees, they can be lower and it certainly will not have a drastic impact on the budget of administrative fees. You're proposing to vote tax laws, and I must say again that the IRS is not up to the task. For what? You know of a number of problems, especially slowness, ineffectiveness, often waiting for solutions, you get very unsupervised data in tax administrations. As angry as the G17 Plus colleagues are, the IRS is currently at the level of one of their political committees. All the leading chieftains are occupied by the G17 Plus people. Here's a concrete example. In Article 53. The draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law says: 'With the tax application and the tax balance, the taxpayer is obliged to deliver to the competent tax authority those financial reports which he is obliged to submit to the National Bank', which is quite all right, means -- balance sheet, balance sheet of success, cash flows report. But in the following you say: 'another documentation prescribed by this law, as well as documentation requested by the tax authority in accordance with the regulations'. Here you give the tax officer space to be your supreme judge, literally to ask for any documents if he wants to return the case to you and not accept your application. Especially if he doesn't like you. These are all examples from practice. You know, instead of making an incentive for taxpayers to be so disciplined that they're literally happy to enter the IRS, you know that our man is going into the IRS, especially when he's going to have to file a tax application - frightened, intimidated, indisposed, because he knows that he's always got an officer waiting for him who's either gonna ask for additional documentation or he's not going to help fill out a tax application or he's going to pay him back unkindly. All of these laws that are passed, as many as have some good aspects, are so applied to such examples. In an analysis of the effects of this law, you say that the proposed measures should have a general effect on the creation of new economic operators. Yes, but only if this applies specifically to the reduction of taxis of other burdens on economic operators. You know that every tax code literally falls into service because of these other burdens, primarily because of too many taxis, from opening up businesses and beyond, especially local taxis, taken by local self-government, no matter who's in power. Take a look at the example of the city of Belgrade, from first to fifth zones, the tax to highlight companies are high. In addition to these laws, which you say should be an incentive to open new businesses, you have on the other hand and taxes that are very burdensome on all these other laws. As far as the income tax itself is concerned, we still believe that all income-based allocations are high. There were no stories here, there were no amendments and no additions to the law on other payoffs. As far as income tax is concerned, from 14% to 10% is correct, with what you've done perhaps a failure of employees. We have to be principled. In the case of persons who earn an annual income at the level of a million dinars, beware, this is where you take a fixed base of 100,000 dinars, as much as you predict a member of this law, and another percent. It means it's far more privileged to have a five million-dollar income than a million dinars. You'll see in the application itself, you have to explain it, there's going to be one category of people who's making that income damaged. In any case, we see that you have also anticipated incentives for undeveloped areas in Serbia. This should show maximum consistency and not invest in some economic areas that they consider to be damaged by small budget allocations. This opens up a series of possibilities for investment abuses. You give a tax incentive not to pay a tax on profits, and on the other hand, you oblige that legal person to hire 100 workers. Normally, we advocate higher employment, but imagine how much that legal person will do if every month, you know, and alone, for 100 workers, how-so, regardless of the conditions of becoming fit, he has to secure the profits, which he needs. Consider all these amendments carefully. They were done very studioically in order to improve a set of tax laws, to lower certain taxes so that the population could bear such high taxes, because you know that the widest layer of citizens and these taxes is burdened.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14181	Thank you, Mr. Topalovic. The word is made by MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I apologize for interrupting the discussion for a moment. I have reported to Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP." I would like to inform you that the National Assembly has not yet formed a supervisory committee which is obliged to form under the Law on the Selection of Members of the People. It is an authority tasked with monitoring pre-election activities and points to possible irregularities in the conduct of political parties, candidates and other participants in the electoral process, controlling the handling of public information funds in the application of the provisions of this law, proposing measures to respect the equality of all candidates, there is a need to protect the moral integrity of the candidates and which warns of the actions of political parties, administration bodies, candidates and public notifying funds that interfere with the election campaign and endangers the equality of the rights of all candidates. I didn't accidentally answer my word. The congregation is now a body appointed by the Supervisory Board. So, the Supervisory Board has ten members, half of whom is appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the government's proposal, and the second half on the proposal of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. At this point, that organ still doesn't exist and the consequences of its absence are felt. The LDP candidate, it was also characteristic in the pre-election campaign, but is now being stepped up in an election campaign that is being fueled, the most terrifying insults and attacks through mob media, by mobsters. The lack of such an organ just means further possibility of such things happening. The LDP is really up for a fair game. We don't have any problem with that. I ask you, MPs in this House, fellow Members, to insist on the formation of this body because this is how we protect all candidates, not only LDP candidates, but also to confirm that our supreme imperative is fair play and respect and respect for these basic democratic principles. Please, colleagues, support us in this. We will insist that this body be formed even in previous election campaigns, although previous election campaigns have been very dirty, and we want this campaign to be different from everyone else. We'll insist on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14183	Thank you very much. The word is from MP Milan Nikolic, the authorised representative of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14184	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, before I say anything about the points on the agenda, doesn't apply to the minister and his associates, as far as most of them are concerned, it's not good to combine certain points of the agenda that don't have any logical connections with each other. The MPs were then denied that they could keep talking about different aspects, propose changes and additions, because it is about different matter. When it comes to this economic set of laws, it is good that together with the budget, it actually belongs to it as an integral part of the adoption of the budget, such legal solutions are also given. I think the decision to pass a special law on the budgetary system as a single law is a good solution, because it fully prescribes the way in which budgets are planned, adopted and implemented, so as not to create confusion over various changes and additions, which then create difficult implications in implementing or interpreting certain legal rules and not enough understanding. I think it is good that, very often, this has also been discussed in the budget debate, the resources of legal persons who do not have the status of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, such as agencies, commissions, various regulatory bodies, etc., are now included in the planning, adoption and monitoring of budgetary spending, so that there is a certain way to control the cost monitoring and these users of funds. There were also a lot of words about how to plan, especially the spending of funds from the National Investment Plan and the unnecessary takeover of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on how to spend these funds. Finally, the budgetary system foresees that these funds will be introduced into the programme monitoring system of the spending of such funds. Also, a list of those who spend, whether they are direct or indirect users of funds, provides a chance to have a better insight and control of budget spending and introduces a special way of budgetary discipline, a team before the budget inspection is envisaged that will be able to monitor implementation and budget flows. Efforts to plan revenues, expenditures and possible spending are a good idea, not through the Memorandum, but budgets. However, the country's economy is facing quite a lot of challenges, uncertainty and problems, so I fear that in the process of implementing the budget or the corrections made over the years, there will be a lot of differences compared to the objectives set in such a three-year budget revenue and expenditure planning. Laws on income tax and corporate income tax introduce newspapers. The paper is that through a certain procedure and with the agreement of the ministry, there can be a difference in the fiscal and calendar year. Due to the specificity of business that certain companies and certain business entities are engaged in, they are given the opportunity to more realistically express their results, their spending and obligations that they have to carry out, by extending it to five years, and which also looks like a logical solution. Jumping from one system to another can create certain malversions that can hardly be controlled properly. The matter concerning the determination and collection of the capital gains tax shall be elaborated in detail. Instead of paying for each transaction so far, above all when it comes to the turnover of securities of value, it is reduced to an annual level and it is possible that capital loss can be compensated with capital losses and facilitates the possibility that, without any particular burden, certain obligations can be made easier than they have been so far. Intention of the Law on Income Tax is to stimulate market records of value, where the tax on such transactions decreases from 20% to 10%. Unfortunately, our value charter market is only in turn. Personally, I believe that the effects of a project like this can be expected on a longer term. The accompanying affirmation of such a government move is necessary so that all users can understand what it really means. It simplifies the procedure, calculating capital gains per year, means that the burden of the debtor is resolved, transferred, paid. However, given the name state of the taxpayers, the burden is transferred to one giving, and this can be a particular problem compared to the current way of paying in those transactions at the time of the business event, to call it, happens. I would say that there is more of a move than the results are expected, not particularly in terms of farmers being able to use these calls to invest, capitalise and provide a better material position for the development of this agricultural household, because we all know that these taxes are minor, that even further procedures for the release of agricultural income tax on that cadastrian income from 14% to 10% also do not release a mass of funds that could be approximately able to secure a better material position and the development of agriculture. Agriculture in this country, as one of the serious opportunities for Serbia's development and perspective, requires much greater isolation, much greater stimulation, cheaper loans, subsidies and a special agricultural policy, special state investment is needed in large infrastructure facilities, especially when it comes to irrigation. Not to spread the subject, but it's a resource that's this country's chance. The plan and the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must be put before parliament, but also in public, in an economic programme to make moves that will come back more as a result than we do with such moves. Also, taxation of citizens' income per 10% on the tax share, to up to a million dinars of 10% and to an amount of over a million and a half taxable part at 15%, in the procedure it is very easy to do. This simplifies the procedure for those who are taxable and, in particular, the tax authorities that do the job, but hides the danger of a greater arrest than the way tax is accounted for so far. I think the Law on Taxes is a technical law that only accepts the authority regarding taxis which the state community, especially abroad, at our offices, embassies, etc., had as an obligation to collect tax revenues for the tasks it does. Of course, it is now the obligation and the right of the Republic of Serbia as an independent state, but I think it is also a little bit explained which are simple and which are complicated jobs and whether it is equally measured from the aspect of complexity, above all, that procedure. This people have always stood out when it comes to large infrastructure facilities. I don't think they're going to encounter any particular inconvenience this increase in excise duty to 10%, or 15%, or 20%, respectively. However, the people lack confidence in promises. I'm afraid that money has been spent very often in continuity, I'm not saying now in recent years, for various electoral propaganda, for making unnecessary local roads, for patching up streets or repetitive streets that were paved last year, in order to win voters. I think a move like this, which will certainly be supported, should be accompanied programically, that we finally know when Corridor 10 will be resolved, that we finally know what will be done with these additional funds, to set priorities that are necessary in this country. We don't have the infrastructure and roads, we put many industries at risk, we're surrounded by countries from the environment, and at the same time we become completely unattractive partners to countries in the environment. Because logistics is a very significant factor in the conditions we need to meet in order to meet our obligations to our partners. Please use the rest of the time at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14185	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. The other ten minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14186	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, among other laws, we have a bill on the budget system...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14187	Mr. Arsic, I apologize - the authorised representative of the SRS. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14188	It's okay, maybe there's a little hope for you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14189	Perhaps you'll vote for the Kostolac municipality?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14190	So the law on the budgetary system, which was passed in 2001 by the Assembly on the proposal of the then minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Bozidar Djelic, experienced a number of changes. All these changes that have been happening since the beginning of the year were mostly going towards cheap politics and were going ahead of some elections, so during 2006, we had amendments and additions to the Budget System Act. A new classification called the National Investment Plan was then introduced, so, for example, the finance minister could use the national investment plan to campaign for his political party for the upcoming elections. When you look at such a law on the budget system and this new one, there is nothing new in the right sense of words, but you can see again these cheap political marketing moves that obviously have a purpose, not only of this one when it comes to the budgetary system, but also to present something. However, I am now asking one question - why do we keep something hidden from the citizens of Serbia, we always have a desire to in some way deceive both MPs and citizens when it comes to the budget? We say the budget law is one of the most important laws that the Assembly makes. I believe that, however, the law on the budgetary system is as important, because it defines and identifies how the budget of the Republic of Serbia is spent, and most importantly, the law on the budgetary system can finally determine what the budget is. But here in this bill, too, it is obvious that someone has a desire to hide the true value of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is already seen in Article 2(7): ''The own revenues are incomes which are not established by law as public, which by their activities, i.e. by selling goods and performing services, according to the law, are made directly and indirectly by the beneficiaries of the budget and funds of the mandatory social insurance organisations... '". This first part of point 7 is completely correct, but the follow-up that follows says: '...' as well as part of public incomes which are shown in accordance with the law as their own (intentional) incomes.' Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the part of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which, when the minister says, is the budget of 649,000,000 -- and shows the revenue side, doesn't count on those own revenues that are public, but are special to the law strictly intended. So we have the eye now, I think, 70 billion dinars, which are being run as their own income, and they are not the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Well, that can't be. The incoming and cost-effective sides of the budget must be completely identical. Any revenue that is made is public revenue. That is the problem, here we come to the problem that has arisen when it comes to the Law on the financing of political parties. So, what's the budget? The future side or the expense side? What's the revenue side? Own income where are all public revenues or public revenues included without their own income? What's the budget? Or what ends up being spent? The minister hasn't answered that question yet, until today. Furthermore, when I started a story with cheap politics, we see that two specific definitions were given in the budget system law. Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 34 states: "The development aid of the European Union is a dedicated revenue, which is realised on the basis of international development co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union". It's specifically marked now, although it could have been shown as the most ordinary donation, which it is. And of those six and a half or seven billion dollars, as much as you said that when you replaced Milosevic to get help, I don't even know if you dragged one billion into Serbia in the last seven years. However, there is another item, the same article, the same attitude, only point 35: 'Co-financing of the European Union Development Programme. '". Why don't you write down nicely that for this programme, the European Union sets up a bank, sets out the conditions, determine what we're going to do, determine who we're going to work with and determine how we're going to do it, and we're going to pay all of our money. Is that, of course? You know what, when the money's mine, I determine how I'm gonna spend it, no one else needs to preach to me, I don't need counselors. Or you may need them, but not because you don't know, but to make it easier for them to get the money. Now, let me ask you one more question when it comes to the EU. Until a few days ago, the EU openly calls for Kosovo's independence. Are you selling Kosovo? Is that what you're doing? We don't need money from states that take our territories. We do not need money from states participating in genocide against the Serbian people. You don't have to. Is that what you're buying? Do you buy the dignity of a nation? Do you want to sell one people? What do you want? Here we see in the papers, they may delay it until the presidential election is over, they would not mind Tadic, the president of the DS, because they know that Kosovo can be recognised and independent only if Tadic is Serbia's president. You laws like this even help them. When it comes to budget inspections, it's small and colorful lies. Budgetary inspection at the republican level, it is what it is, it may need to be better, but it is the only republican authority and the only authority that should be involved in spending public income. And it is absolutely meaningless to conduct local budget inspections and budget inspections of the autonomous province. And that's one coward's egg that the finance ministry puts on local self-government, because on the one hand it chokes them in the revenues they make, in the mass of money they need to make pay because they're taking over a larger and bigger part of the jurisdiction of the Republic, and on the other hand, we're making them more committed, and it's a question of how local self-governments meet all these obligations. So, do that budget inspection at the level of the Republic properly. About how this one is now working, how budget inspectors are now working, we're going to do a little bit more in particular, but don't bother local self-government anymore because it's pointless. Who will be controlled by this budgetary inspector in a local self-government? Who's the budget manager in local self-government? - The president of the municipality. Who appoints a budgetary inspector? - Head of the municipal administration. Who's setting up the mayor of the municipal administration? - The president of the municipality. Who will he control, himself? Then why do we have a state audit institution if we're going to build parallel bodies to control budget spending? Article 23 The bill says these are the Republic of Serbia's budget revenues. It is said – 1) taxes in the act established by law: value added tax, excise taxes, income tax, income tax, tax on use, holding and carrying certain goods, tax on international trade - customs, 2) taxes: Republic administrative and judicial fees... Why don't you write it nice in the budget? Why, in the draft budget law, do we not have a good value, based on which all the Republic gets the funds? Because now we have a situation where, here, the judicial authorities strike again. Why don't we know how many judicial authorities make budget revenues based on fees? What are the republican administrative fees? Why do you show it all in one mass when it's collected from different organs? No problem, Article 23 is not a bad member, just apply it as you wrote in the draft budget law, or in the budget law. No more, when you propose a budget law, let's play with what financial assets are, what non-financial assets are, what are incomes and borrowings from financial assets. Don't bring this up to the MPs and don't sell this story to the citizens. Financial assets are securities issued by the Republic of Serbia and loans to be raised by the Republic of Serbia for someone to receive high wages. I end up with the one who put in the bill that the budget can be passed in three years and I'm asking if it's in good sense, because this budget, which was made for 2008, was released twice in the process and returned within 10 days. I'm really interested in how you think you're gonna make a budget in three years when you're not only capable of one. Let me remind you, since 2001, only one budget has not been rebalanced, only one budget -- that's this one for 2007 -- and why? - because it was brought in June. You're in no condition to plan the budget for a year, let alone three years from now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14191	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14192	Mr Albianic, ladies and gentlemen, by calling elections for the president of Serbia and after the session of the RIK, which was completed last night, the forms for the submission of political parties' bids for presidents have been prescribed. At today's session, the Central State Administration of the SRS unanimously decided that our party's candidate for president would be SRS Vice President Mr Tomislav Nikolic. We, absolutely aware of the fact that January 20th will decide where and which path Serbia should go, to decide whether or not... What's the problem, buddy?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14193	Please allow Miss Jovanovic to state her position.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14194	I don't mind, really. I want to talk about a serious thing that can concern you, even though your candidate, Boris Tadic, has no chance in the election race with Tom Nikolic. I will talk about a technical problem that really reflects the indiscriminateness and disrespect of the National Assembly and the authorities to conduct elections and participants in the elections by one individual. So we started with these pre-election actions that RIK established. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, all the SRS municipal committees in Serbia are organising the arrival of officials from municipal courts' offices so that citizens who want to support Mr Nikolic's candidacy with their signature certified at the court. We felt, since we are responsible people and parties who always try to make the most perfect and the most democratic way to participate and organise themselves in election cycles and in these actions, that we should do so on Saturday and Sunday, because, you know, it is the same case when participating in the republican elections, a job that requires the engagement of these people, party infrastructures and, above all, citizens who want to, and I am confident in a huge number and to support Tom Nikolic's candidacy, as it will vote to the greatest extent for him on January 20th. There were no problems at all at the invitation of MPs, my distinguished colleagues of Serbian radicals, who, just like me, are presidents of district or municipal committees, except in one city, or in Piroth. In that city, some piece of DS or maybe G17 plus, Mr. Albianic, who is the president of the municipal court, decided to be smarter than the others. Now you see. This morning, on the way from Kragujevac to Belgrade, knowingly, since this was also the proposal of the District and City Committee of our party, which I have sent today to the Central Country Administration, and later, as you heard, it was accepted that Toma Nikolic be our presidential candidate, preventively so, within all these obligations, I called on the President of the Municipality Court in Kragujevac, Mr. Zarko Stevanović. He, as a responsible man, as well as people who work in the office, who know what they should do when elections are held in the country -- put themselves at the disposal of those candidates and political parties who want to participate in the election process, and as I did and received a confirmed answer, and indeed, thank you for the co-operation of Mr. Stevanović in Kragujevac, Zark, not Veroljub, but the President of the Court. My colleague Vukevic is watching me, so that's why I'm saying it, you know. I don't see whether it's normal for all of Serbia to have all the presidents of municipal courts in our country have one rational and reasonable view of this matter - to engage, because these people get compensation for their work outside of working hours, for a job that's not small for them, but that everybody does professionally and perfectly... (President: Time is running out. Time is running out, Mr. Albianic, but you don't care, you don't have a presidential candidate, although I know you'll vote for Tom Nikolic. (President: How come we don't have one? Please don't. Never mind, you have to go somewhere and sign your support for our candidate, and you're not in Pirot, and then you don't care about the Pyrot problem. Then how are the citizens of Pirot gonna do it tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? So, this way I want to, I don't know what that man's name is, to tell him that he's reasonable and not to act like something he doesn't have to act, because normal people, the presidents of the courts in our country, as well as the officials, want to do this part of the work that's expected of them, and then let the citizens decide in the elections, to run the campaign for us by January 20th. Again, I am convinced that even though there is only one problem in one city, in Piroth, in Kragujevac, in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, in Nis, in Vranja, everywhere and in every place will be won by SRS candidate Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14195	Let's get a line on the speakers. First came the word of MP Milorad Belic, and then the MP Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Whitey. Mr. Jojic, you are the fourth, with the understanding of others, I did not put Mr. Jojic on the list in time, and he said more at the last point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, my distinguished colleague from the DSS-NS Parliament Club Dr. Vladan Vukevic has said what is most important about amending the Law on Public Paths, which I will say more about, simply for the sake of you who are sitting here and who need some more information and, of course, for the sake of the citizens who are watching us. What Mr Vučićevic said is that I think it is the most significant, which is, above all, that there will be no additional burden on the citizens' budget, which was usually an observation of those who are not best directed at what excises are and how they will change in this proposed law on public roads, and also how much that amount will be in 2008 and 2009 respectively. I'd just like to make a few brief notes. First of all, let me remind you, while the Republic Road Directorate in that form did business, on several occasions there have been budget rebalances that have had a significant impact on the reduction of funds used from the budget. So in 2004, the amount was reduced by 3.6 billion, by 3.1 billion in 2005, and in 2006, when the legal provision began to provide additional funds from excises to Serbia's Ways, 1.57 billion were paid out of Serbia's budget. Excises, therefore, as I have said since 2006, have provided Serbian Ways 5.2 billion, but because of the VAT obligations that JP Serbia's roads paid to the state of five billion then it was clear that both income and expenditure were identical, and that therefore there was no means and opportunity for additional funds to be used to maintain the highways and regional routes. Of course, in this year, Serbian Roads delivered their work programme in time, their financial claims, and the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the programme of work and it was published in "The Official Messenger". They were to withdraw from the budget funds of five billion, which was not done, and for these reasons we were forced here, during this debate, to pass the proposed law on amendments to the Law on Public Paths. It should be said that on behalf of rehabilitation, it is said professionally to build roads, and on the basis of the loans raised, i.e. on the name of that item, about 200m euros should be allocated, and that on behalf of the maintenance of the highways and regional roads in the unforeseen circumstances, such as the case of floods, slides, collapsed bridges, in 2005, the amount was as much as 50m euros in 2006. So, with these two very important burdensome items, it should be noted that they are also so-called. Unscheduled works resulting from the orders of the Republic Public Roads and Traffic Police Inspectorate, which also resulted in about 80m euros being invested in 2006. These are all reasons why we really need to figure out what kind of problem this is, and of course we all want, as far as traffic is concerned on the master's and regional roads, that it's going on extremely safely and uninterrupted, that it's not jeopardising the liquidity of the very important JP pathways of Serbia, and of course it's not necessary to forget the numerous contractors of the works that, like the sun, are waiting for what we're going to do here, of course for debt to these contractors. For these reasons, I have no doubt that all MPs in Voting Day will support this bill, and of course the DSS, or the DSS-NS Parliament Club, will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14197	Thank you, Mr. Whitey. The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14198	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have a set of tax laws on the agenda -- a law on the budgetary system, then a law on amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Citizens, the Tax on Business, the Law on Administrative Taxes, the Law amending the Law on Public Roads. When it comes to the law on the budgetary system, it aims to improve the budget system, especially in the part of planning, preparation, adoption and enforcement, as well as to control budget adoption. We know that the budgetary system consists of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the local government and financial plans, in fact the organisation of compulsory social security. The main budgetary objective set out in the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia is macroeconomic stability, low inflation and economic development. When it comes to the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it has been here these days and that it is the development budget. There were contrasting attitudes and opinions. I hope that a certain number of amendments submitted to the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia will certainly be adopted, all in terms and in the direction that certain budget beneficiaries are adequately planned to carry out their activities and tasks. This law on the budgetary system has established a calendar year. I must point out that the deadline for the adoption of the Republic budget runs from 1 April to 15 December. We are obliged to bring a Republic budget by 15 December. To be honest, I doubt we will be able to bring it in, as amendments to the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia are to be considered, while the commitments of local self-government are to bring their local budgets from 15 June to 25 December. Experiences are well known to us. We brought the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 in June. We had a budget system law and we just broke it. I must ask the question whether this law, which will surely be passed in this highest house, will be respected by all subjects. I'm expressing my suspicion. It will certainly be respected by local self-governments and other users, but it will certainly not be done by the government, or the ministry, because they have shown this precisely at the adoption of the 2007 budget, when we lost a step above all in many investments, we lost the construction season and we lost as far as Serbia's economic development is concerned in a very difficult situation. I especially want to point out, when it comes to the budget system law, of Article 25. He primarily refers to funding the authority of local self-government units. This article lists the responsibilities of local self-government units and, above all, the income tax of citizens, property tax, inheritance tax and gift, I will not list all, donations and transfers. I must point out one disagreement and one objection in the area of trust in jurisdiction when it comes to the incomes of local self-government. The question of the development of local self-government is raised. Not all municipalities of the same population, economic power, so there is a question and income tax, whether sufficient resources can be provided from the part belonging to municipalities. Secondly, which I would especially like to appeal to the Ministry of Finance and to the minister, these are transfers of funds, which are transferred monthly to local self-government. A question arises as to the criteria under which the ministry has set the level of transfer towards local self-government. I must point out that the smaller municipalities of local self-government, or the municipalities of up to 30,000 inhabitants, are certainly damaged compared to others. You must bear this in mind when transferring such funds because the two largest sources of income, income tax and transfers, are the only more serious revenues in the case of local self-government, or municipalities below 30,000 inhabitants. As far as accounting and reporting are concerned, the bill on the final account of the Republic of Serbia is said to determine the government by 1 November. When I expressed my suspicion that the government would also respect this law on the budgetary system, I would, above all, like to remind you and ask all those present whether we have had a final account of the Republic of Serbia since 2001. We haven't even had a revision, we haven't adopted any final accounts, and that's why I voiced my suspicion, I said that the government and the resolution ministries will certainly not respect this law. When it comes to budgetary control, budget inspection, we're not all equal in that part. It should exist and the fact is that it is in control, but I think that local self-government in the most part is damaged, above all, and the bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 24, when it comes to salaries and contributions, when the mass of 12 salaries in 2008 is planned to increase 10% on the basis of November. I want to ask the Ministry once again if everyone has respected the law since the moment the foundations were taken as some starting ground, September or November from previous years. I'm sure they're not all. Those municipalities that have realistically planned the funds for wages and earnings are now damaged by this way and the proposal of this Article 24 for a 10% increase, while those municipalities that did not respect it have been rewarded. Those who obey the law are punished, and those who disobey it are rewarded. There are examples where the Ministry of Finance has submitted requests, where there is a real basis for increasing the volume of funds in 2007, gives a negative answer. When it comes to the Republic authorities, we had an increase in the number of ministries, an increase in the number of special organisations, and in the context of all of these, as well as an increase in the number of employees. Local self-governments do not have the ability to receive quality and professional personnel, nor do they have the ability to retain existing professional staff with these salaries, ranging from 12,000 to 22,000. A high-level store has 22,000 dinars. Now I'm asking the Ministry if they have the same salaries, with a high level of expertise, and in other environments. That's why there's a budget inspection that could control law enforcement. I agree that we all have to take care of the control of public consumption, but it has to be transmitted equally to all environments. To punish those who do not respect existing laws, and there are, I do not want to call them, but I call the Ministry and budgetary control, let them determine who they are, and those who have respected the law to allow those frameworks that the Government imposes itself. Article 99 and Article 24 of the Budgetary System gives the Minister the right to, if certain beneficiaries of budgetary resources and local self-government do not deliver certain documentation within a specified time-limit, suspend VAT recovery or grant certain funds. I agree completely, but we need to control what I was just talking about. What criteria were applied, who violates regulations, who now has to knowingly violate the regulation because there is not enough funding, financial space to pay half of the 12th salary in 2007? Let's just say, I know municipalities in the Machuvan County that will have to ask you to give consent to pay off half the salary from the budget reserve. If we do it without you, and you're going to give a negative answer, then next year we're going to have a VAT suspension. Freedom is given to the minister, and not to say that the minister can do political work, I don't want to call that somewhere along the political line he may have given that consent and the right to increase the volume of funds, and the other environments can't get it. As for the other laws - amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens, then on corporate income tax, on the republican administrative fees - these are following the laws when budgeting. I think here our SPS colleague, Milan Nikolic, said briefly and decidably all the advantages of these laws. I just have to say, when it comes to the law on amendments to the income tax law, when it comes to the reduction in cadastrian income, the release of farmers to incomes from the cadastrian income, I personally think it's a waste of dust to farmers. That's extremely small. I would have suggested that we reward farmers through a larger agrarian budget, which, according to Milan Nikolic, will also give incentives, which will give cheap loans, which will give subsidies, regressing re-romitarians and so on. The Law on Republic Taxes is a technical law, and I think that the alignment between the jurisdiction of the file that was once in federal authorities, or Serbia-Montenegro, is now passed on to the republican authorities, that is, according to their proposal, and I think that these laws are mostly laws that regulate the issue of budget income. I am taking the opportunity, there is no Minister Velimir Ilic, that when it comes to the draft law amending the Law on Public Roads, it is clear and good that the Government has proposed this. It's claimed there's no load. It is not true that there is no burden, but there is one other thing – why the government has not solved the problem of the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia so far. Here's Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, who has to say, the moment the Road Directorate's transformation to the Public Enterprise was transformed, Serbia's debt was ten billion. Today is the debt of the Public Enterprise between 25 and 30, I can't say it's more, and you can say it. What were you waiting for? When did the transformation take place? It came in 2006, and I must say that at the end of 2006, all works from the real sources of the Road Directorate have been suspended, i.e. now the Public Enterprise of the Ways of Serbia. All the orders that have been given to regional highways are being maintained and reconstructed have been suspended until today. The only thing that came from World Bank credits was certain routes. From the funds of the Public Enterprise, Serbia's Roads this year, I personally believe, not a single dollar in some major investment has been invested or could be invested, and we have heard here that there was even obstruction by the government when it comes to the debt transferred from the Directorate to the Public Enterprise. I support the need to reconstruct and maintain regional highways. It's another truth that this will be a burden for the citizens, but if we want the highways of the region we still have to accept in some way the increase of these excises. I'd like to ask the rink minister on M19. 1 between the Speaker and Love. There's been nothing done on that plan for a year. It's a risk that vehicles land from the Master's Road in Drin. Regional direction F113, also the rink, Ljubovija-Valjevo. I would like to ask the minister one more time: When will the agreement between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina be signed on the bridge he promised on the Drina River, between Love and Bratunac? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14199	Thank you. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President of the National Assembly Ms. Natasa Jovanovic pointed out the fact that today the Central Country Administration has proposed its candidate for the president of the Republic of Serbia in the next election, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. She pointed out that some municipal court presidents came out and responded to the SRS' call to confirm the signing of citizens who want to support Tomislav Nikolic. First, I would like to thank and thank the President of the District Court in Pančevo, Mr Vujasinović Dragolju, whom I addressed and immediately accepted that the district of the Pančevo District Court was certified by the SRS municipal committees. I will also thank the President of the Municipal Court in Pančev, Ms. Slavica Martinovic, then the President of the Kovačić Municipality Court and the President of the Kovin Municipal Court, because they accepted in a correct way that the applicant of the statement should come to the SRS headquarters, where the citizens, who spoke to the SRS, are aware of the news that Tomislav Nikolic is an SRS candidate, can verify their signatures on Saturday and Sunday after most of them work on a working day, and the court works until 14 hours. It is very incorrect that the acting head of the municipal court in Sremska Mitrovica Zlatica Stevanovic refused to allow the overseer to arrive at the headquarters of the SRS Municipal Committee. The same is true in the district court department in Irig, and this is the Ruma Municipal Court. These two municipal courts refused to hire an overachiever to come and check citizens' statements on Saturdays and Sundays. I am calling and informing the President of the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica, if he hears or is informed, Mr. Borislav Pupavec, that he is taking certain steps to get the credentials out of the SRS headquarters for the sake of the order. Let's let the terrorists go to the headquarters of all the political parties. We're not asking for privilege, but we don't need to be discriminated against. Once again, I call on Mr. Borislav Pupavec to examine and verify why the official of the district court's office, Zlatica Stevanovic, and the municipality court department in Ruma, refused to come out and hire a record checker at the scene. Of course, the employees of the judiciary, especially the administration, have small salaries and this will be paid for, who comes out on the spot, by signature. That's why I was forced to inform the public and the MPs, and I'm not sure there are cases like this in all of Serbia, in certain municipal courts. This is an invitation and an appeal for citizens who want to sign on Saturdays and Sundays, to verify themselves, so they don't miss work on a working day. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the draft laws on the agenda at this point, I'd just like to refer to the budget system law. Such an important system law, which is almost immediately behind the Constitution in all countries, deserves enormous attention. If that were true, it shows Article 1. The bill, which states that this law regulates the planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government; the preparation and adoption of the financial plans of the Republic of Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service; budgetary accounting and reporting, financial management, control and audit of beneficiaries of public funds and budgets of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of local authorities and financial plans of the mentioned funds; the jurisdiction and organisation of the Treasury Administration, as the authorities of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of the local authorities and other issues of importance for the functioning of the budgetary system. In particular, it is stressed that this law regulates both the type and the belonging of public income. Is there more important issues in the area of public finances of the Republic of Serbia than those that are numbered? Besides, these are important issues for each country's public or state finances, including the Republic of Serbia. However, this whole big and important law is a disaster in every sense of the word. First of all, it is amazing what incompetence and haste many expressions and concepts at the beginning of the law and definitions that no one lives will understand, and that only those experts who are to implement these provisions will not be the creators of the text of the law. Or should we turn to the question - do the creators of this text know how, in life and in practice, the real and serious professional functioning of public finances, not only in the Ministry of Finance and its vault, but also in all other parts of the public finance system, in other republican bodies and organisations, ministries, local authorities of municipalities, above all, and other direct and indirect budget users? Apparently they don't know, because while they're in the woods, the budget rules are on the road. This is how real signifiers of budgets that are not philosophers and models are caught by the head, but professionals in the right sense, who know that the budget, however modern and reformal, is one document that materially supports, is being followed by some other laws or regulations that require spending of funds, but only for the obligations of the state established in those legal regulations. That is why there is a great constitutional principle or obligation that expenditure cannot be entered into the budget if it is not an obligation for the state to finance, because this would result in the chaos that we have, in fact, right now, which best shows the current budget proposal. See for yourself, and you will see that there are more items and with larger minuses that have absolutely no legal basis for funding from the budget. The entire National Investment Plan, subsidies, loans, ski resorts and the like. And what it's worth when it's covered here by the definition of the budget system law, which is illegal and it's a scam that doesn't have coverage in any regulation, so there's no valid explanation under this law. It is difficult to understand that the government wanted to fascinate us with this many concepts, hiding behind the flossula that these are professional budget terms, which is a fraud, because even if so, it would be necessary to explain them in detail and convince the MPs that these are all the concepts necessary to assist professional services involved in planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and other important jobs, as stated in Article 1 of this Law. If you had been brave enough to ask one ordinary budget, not at the level of the Republic, but at least some budget that has been in practice for at least four or five years in one of the municipalities, if it made any sense to all these definitions and concepts, you would see, and it is certain that there is no way that all these terms and definitions understand and will only apply them. This is especially true because even those who wrote them cannot explain them properly. But in this many terms, the right of intent is made known, that such an important law must be made mandatory by certain provisions that give opportunity and legal protection to those who are responsible, so that they can spend public money without any control, even though everything in the law is full of control mechanisms that cause the head to hurt. There's a lot of examples, but I'm just gonna name some. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 7. The proposal is said to be responsible for the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget by the minister responsible for finance affairs and could immediately be thought to be quite all right, but such powers are given to this minister that everything and nothing worse has been passed by the other ministers in terms of their powers. But let's get back to the finance minister. Why? Because, already in Article 10, which bears the title "Investment of funds", it gives authority to the minister, or to the person who powers him, which is terrible. Listen carefully, I quote the provision of Article 10: "The Minister, or the person authorised by him, may use money in a consolidated account of the vault of the Republic of Serbia, other than his own income, as well as for which in a special law, or an international contract, the purpose that restricts the use of these funds is to invest in the domestic or foreign financial market of money or capital, in accordance with the law and other regulations." I stress - invest. Of course, international contracts are excluded, because that's what they're looking for. Let one of the government's representatives, let's say the finance minister, convince me that this is not the export of our state money abroad and for what purpose. What country on the planet allows taxpayers' money to be made abroad and under what conditions, and does this mean that some of the funds from privatisation, from foreign customers, which were to be paid into the budget, are in fact now abroad and are being invested? Here, there are covers, and it's legal, right in this law, because as far as I've seen, this provision is in the current law and it's in force. If that's not the case, let the finance minister come out here, let him deny me and say that's not the provision and that he's proposing to delete himself. There may be another reason why in the law we have such a humiliating provision that offends every taxpayer of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand is a disastrous cover for the purposeless spending of budget money, at unknown amounts and permanently, because the money of the budget serves to reconcile the government's obligations. There is no point in investing in the foreign capital market. Would, ladies and gentlemen, Germany or any serious state, perhaps France, allow it to have such provisions in its law? Let the Deputy Prime Minister explain why. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been several speeches about us having large foreign currency assets. Why are billions of Serbian currency deposited abroad? Why are these foreign exchanges not being put into the job of hiring, opening up companies? Why aren't they in the function of agricultural development? Why is one of these billions of euros not donated to farmers, to buy them 20,000 tractors, to those who will make it three times by their work and by their efforts bring it back to the state through production? Therefore, there is room to help farmers. You remember that last and last year in the budget as many as 41 billion dinars were intended for special services and purposes. For that 41 billion dinars, 14,000 mid-class tractors could be purchased. It would be such an incentive for our agriculture that we would be in a position to produce huge quantities of agricultural products for export and thus to return the funds to our country. Furthermore, there is no point in giving such a serious and important law such a meager and ignorant explanation. In my opinion, this law should be returned to the correctional exam so that these important issues are fully considered and properly regulated for general benefit. I am taking the opportunity, while there is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Djelic, to ask him a question. Mr. Minister, can I ask you a question? Will you find an opportunity to raise the salary to the educators? Will you find an opportunity from the budget, or from the reserves, to raise salaries for employees, administrative workers in the judiciary because the negotiations of the government and the unions of the judiciary authorities failed? These are the questions I would like, if you're in the mood to answer, and I think there's room to help those categories of citizens who live badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14201	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The People's Messenger Dejan Rajcic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14202	The Honorable Presidency, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be a little shorter and more concise than my predecessor. I must say immediately that New Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will vote in favour of a proposed set of laws on which we are holding a united debate today. I will briefly, not because it comes first in the agenda, but simply means a lot to me, the draft bill on the budget system. I can say that since the previous, or still in force, Law on the Budgetary System in 2002, it has certainly contributed significantly to the introduction of discipline and offices in relations in the process and planning, and the preparation and adoption and control of budget implementation, both the Republic of Serbia's budgets and the budgets of local self-government. As someone seven years ago who had the opportunity to have the budget of local self-government, I know very well how much this law on the budgetary system has improved and disciplined both the bearers and the direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget, and introduced a lot of order and responsibility in the process of spending public finances. But as there have been many amendments and additions to this existing law in the past five years, surely the time has matured for all these changes, along with these new ones, to be introduced into a new single law, which hopefully we will all support and give our vote for its adoption. I would also like to refer a little bit to what my predecessors and colleagues from New Serbia, the Honorable President of the Transport Committee, Dr Vladan Vukevic and Mr Milorad Belic, spoke of amendments to the Law on Public Roads. They've already said what reasons were necessary to make this change. It, though contained and defined in only two members, still has the essential and crucial value for the survival of the Public Enterprise of Serbia, which, we must admit, for these two years with great difficulty functioned and survived in its work on construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of travel infrastructure, both regional and freeway. However, we must note that in many cases it has been intervened on the roads in those local self-governments, which due to the small budgets, which are present in southeast Serbia, are not able to maintain their local travel network at an appropriate and satisfactory level. Surely there was a need for the state itself, the government, to intervene so that these paths could be used, in the first place safely. We will all admit, there is no democratic or non-democratic path, there is either a good path or a bad path, and all of us, who are moving by it, will have the opportunity to use or benefit or disadvantage, the damage that this path can do to us as its users, or to those involved in traffic. I think it is necessary, for the sake of the public and for our own sake, to explain, and especially to apostrophe the fact that it is not increasing and will not increase the price of oil and oil derivatives. By altering participation in the structure of oil excise money and oil derivatives, only internal pre-mpositories, redistribution of funds collected this way, are changed at the expense of some other users. Because, for someone to have, someone's got to be gone. The fact is that the current level of excise duty will remain the same, and the price of oil and petroleum products, the gasoline of all possible species, and the excise duty on liquid oil gas will not change, and we, as citizens, customers, oil and oil consumers, the users of that for our vehicles, will not pay more than we have so far. So, gas, oil and oil derivatives will not be collected, but only the internal pre-composition of the structure of the distribution of excise funds collected from oil and oil products will be carried out by the resolution ministers interested in this area, the Minister of Infrastructure Velimir Ilic and the finance minister. I think it is necessary to say that the nominal amount achieved this way in the next calendar and budget year for about four, four and a half billion and from billions still buried in 2009 to a gross amount of 16 billion according to current parameters would be sufficient for optimal maintenance of the regional and highway travel network in its satisfactory state. The most important thing is that a good mechanism has been found to create a sustainable system of continued allocation of funds and inflows to the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" so that the company's functions, defined by their founding act and government decisions, can be implemented whenever necessary. Let us remind ourselves that over the past two years, JP's "Serb Roads" have intervened countless times in all those situations when, due to the elemental disasters, this was necessary. Let us remember that in 2005, only in the wake of heavy rainfalls, around 900 rinks appeared at one short time interval after another and JP "Serbia's Roads" intervened. We also remember those interventions and the recovery of roads damaged in flooded areas and bridge structures. I am absolutely sure that all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of this draft law amending the Law on Public Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14203	Thank you, Mr. Rajcic. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralić. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there are five draft laws in front of us and we are conducting a unique principled search on all these laws. Although I can accept in some way that these first four laws are being searched for a unique principled search, it is not clear until the end why the Law on Roads falls under this group and this category, as it is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that the principle of a single search is being carried out when solutions are interlinked and similar in some law. But anything is possible with you. It's also possible that in one year, and in just six months apart, you adopt two budgets, and none of those two budgets are, again, able to adopt on time. You may also be able to adopt the budget at a time when elections for the president of Serbia have been called and the election campaign has already begun. I'm just going to take a quick look at this budget system bill. As the argument puts it, this is a whole new law. In essence, there may be a need to pass a new law, as many items have changed compared to the previous one. I'll pay attention to Article 2. Article 2 discusses the definitions that are passed through this law and there are 47. It may be good to give these definitions and explanations of some concepts, but there is one thing that is not good. In fact, under the regular number of Article 21, Article 2 is about approvation. Look now, just to define the concept of appraisal is used seven densely typed lines of text. But that's not all. The sentence does not end there, but continues through the next 12 lines, which makes 19 rows only to explain this concept of aproprietion. I really don't know who wrote this law, but no matter who wrote it, I think he might be envious of Ivo Andric or Leo Tolstoy himself. Under the regular number of the 33rd of the same Article 2, donations are spoken of, but nothing in the law says anything about donations. Yesterday we were considering the draft budget law and we saw that in each ministry there was a grant item, and above all a grant to NGOs, that was what I was talking about yesterday. If you've already counted all these definitions and listed 47 terms, I think the unwarranted word of the donation is because it is used in the budget. This is where the budget calendar is also considered and lists certain items, i.e. order of moves and actions to be carried out in that calendar. As far as the budget law is concerned, I think one of my predecessors was saying that the budget law must be passed by December 15th. Here, today is December 14th, and we are still having a principle debate on these five points of the agenda. You know that after that, there are discussions on the amendments, so it's certainly impossible to pass this law. So this calendar will not be respected immediately at the beginning. But, as I said at the beginning, it's your manners, you just couldn't do anything in time. As far as the law on the Republic's administrative fees is concerned, I must say that these taxes are in principle greater than they have ever been and I don't know what you're defending all of this in, since you claim there's no inflation, the euro is stable and, simply, I don't think there was a need to reach out to such measures. There may have been needs there and there to increase some administrative taxis, but there may have been a need somewhere to cut it, since some taxes were related to the federal administration, the functioning of the federal state, and we all know that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro no longer exists. But bad authority always reaches out for an increase in taxis, because it's simply the easiest. Finally, here's Mr. Cvetkovic, Minister, yesterday I referred him a question about the budget, about the cluster development programme, and I asked Mr. Minister if something was going on on that plan, to avoid the term "clasters". As I said, the term "claster" means, among other things, a tape bomb, and in the town of Nis, from which I come, you all know what happened during NATO aggression, that more innocent people were killed by these cluster bombs in more locations. Once again, I ask you, Mr. Cvetkovic, to replace that expression with someone more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14205	The word has a folk MP Rajko Baralic, and then a National MP, Radoslav Jevremovic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14206	I'm just looking at you! Mr. Vice President, Mr. Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I will only talk about amending and supplementing the law on the budgetary system, only two members, and I will have one question, Mr. Minister, for you, right at the beginning. Did my six-year political struggle bear fruit, and does Article 17 now guarantee me, under points 7 and 8, I'm talking about public revenues, therefore, compensation for the use of a natural drug factor and compensation for the use of mineral raw materials? So, since 2002, when each budget was adopted, including the adoption of your 2007 budget, I've been talking about how the state of Serbia loses around 150m euros a year (by the assessment of Mladjan Dinkic, it's not my estimate) because it is not in a position and has no legal basis to charge, first of all, to cementers, credentials, bricks, those who exploit mineral water, the fees that this is about. Please give me a brief answer, you can also go from place to place, does this mean that there are formal conditions that, specifically, "Lafarzh" in Beocino now pays, based on the use of mineral raw materials, an appropriate fee. In Article 23, in the case of the financing of jurisdiction, paragraph 11, it is said 'incomes from concession fees under the law', I suppose, in accordance with the Law on concessions. Does this mean that now the cementers Popovac, Koseric and Beocinska cementar, now Lafarz, the crène "Jelen do" and the second on this basis will receive a concrete commitment (if so, please tell me) to pay the relevant funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget? I remind you once again that Lafarg, buying Beocinska cementar, among other things, acquired the right (as far as I'm concerned, illegally) to use it, and besides that, I'm saying that for the seventh time in six years, mayonnaise is located within the National Park of Frusca Mountain. So, for a number of reasons, certain questions are being asked here. If this is the point of all this, what Mr. Deputy Prime Minister would say, I congratulate myself. That's what he said about the pay phone this morning. So, I congratulate myself that I have fought to make this happen now, and I thank you for accepting it. That's it. Otherwise, the SPS did not vote in favour of the budget system law when it was passed. If he remembers Mr. Vlahovic, we then said that the law gave the finance minister a higher degree of authority than those who had court treasurers, which means that in one day he could immobilise all financial resources to all budgetary direct and indirect users, and return them when he estimated whether he should or could. We understand why this authority exists, but it is very delicate and can be a dangerous tool in the hands of an unreasonable minister. Of course, I'm not saying you're the one, but that's just what we want to tell you. I have a question. It remains in force, when using and carrying goods, the famous taxes for short and long-range gun owners, I'm talking about small-caliber rifles and those other guns and guns. I, Mr. Minister, have a gun that was given to me by my late father, who was a partisan. I pay taxes on that gift every year. Is it normal for someone to pay taxes on memory? My father hasn't lived in 40 years. I, of course, don't agree to take that gun to the police, so that they, as they say, apologize to him, break up, disable him and make him a trophy. I want him to be a gun, because it's a partisans' gun and it's my father's gun. And it's not fair that I, and tomorrow my son, means, 100 years while this law is in force, we pay taxes on one dear memory, and you'll understand that I don't have a tax rate here at all. I don't care about that. So I'm not interested in that as a problem, I'm interested in a relationship that, as far as I'm concerned, is extremely incorrect. So, I don't know what budget income is on this basis, I'm guessing it's not big financial resources. Last question: Do cable operators have any obligation under the budget system law? These are TV channels, SBB, the price of Belgrade's subscription is 609 dinars, and there are 425 dinars in Cačka. I'm not talking about the service tax when we pay for this, I'm talking about them paying like a frequency holder pays for it, like someone else does. That's what I'm very interested in because they operate on big financial resources. I would pray for that answer, and if he can't now, when the conditions are met, because it's big financial resources and, I think, the potential sources of the budget that you and all of us are missing. Since there's not much time, that's a reference. I'd like to ask, if he can, an answer, and if not, when there's a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14207	The word has a People's MP, Radoslav Jevremovic, and then a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us four proposals on amendments and amendments to the law, a draft bill on the budgetary system, as well as a draft law on the agreement. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes is another attempt to obtain in a certain way a larger amount of money, i.e. to further drag the hand into the already empty pocket of citizens of the Serbian state. In Article 21, the heading 1st point 1) is replaced by the following: "150" is replaced by the number: "200", and in point 2): "750" is replaced by the number "1000", which means another unnecessary increase of more than 30% relating to the application for: 1) application and proposal, application and other submission if this law is not otherwise prescribed – the current amount of 150 dinars is replaced by the amount of 200 dinars, and 2) the granting of opinions on the application of the republican rules – the current amount of 750 dinars is replaced by 1,000 dinars. Article 22 paragraph 1 states: Point (1) of the tariff number: "450" is replaced by the number "900", which means that in the Tariff section of the Republic's administrative taxis, Section A - The fee for organ records and actions in the Republic of Serbia for the request for the purchase of an apartment instead of 450 dinars, which is also an increase of 100%, and you are talking about the absence of inflation and the great state of our economy. In Article 102. The tariff number 9, which refers to the issuing of travel documents, i.e. a visa for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for issuing passports whose period of validity is 10 years – 25 euros, the entry of a child into the passport of one parent or another legal representative – 15 euros, the issuing of a passport – 20 euros, the stamping of a "business" clause (which replaces a visa for some countries) – 15 euros is completely illogical and extremely incorrect to issue the amount of travel documents of the Republic of Serbia for our citizens living abroad, and especially when it comes to enrolling minors in the passport of one parent or another legal representative, determines at such an amount as if your goal is not to enroll your parents in a passport at all, including that they do not take a passport from Serbia. I would also like to refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the company profit tax law, where Article 22 of the Law on Taxation The bill states: Article 30(3) states: "ten" is replaced by the word "five" in order to give this change a whole new meaning in Article 30 of the basic law. Article 30 reads: The capital gains shall include the taxable profit as determined in the manner laid down in Article 27-29 of this Act. The capital lost in the sale of one asset right can be beaten with the capital gains achieved in the sale of another asset right in the same year. If, even after beating from Article 1 of this Article, there is a capital loss, its beating is allowed at the expense of future capital gains in the next – means now after a new – five years. Surely, the solution from the previous law is better, meaning - ten years. As for the draft law on the budgetary system, what is interesting is certainly a Article 31 relating to the budget calendar, and it is a particularly interesting calendar of the budget of the local authorities. Where exactly are they listed? On page 19, Article 31. 2) Local government budget calendar: June 15 - the local administration authority responsible for the finance issue of a draft budget of the local government, September 1st - direct beneficiaries of the budget of the local government submit a proposal for a financial plan to the local authority of the finance authority, October 15 - the local government authority responsible for finance delivers a draft budget decision, November 1st - the competent executive body of the local government delivers a draft budget decision and 20th of December - the local government's general budget decision, December 25th - the local government authority responsible for finance delivers a decision on the budget of the local government. The deadlines set out in Article 1(1) shall be the deadlines for the budgetary calendar. Nothing is disputed in this calendar. What is more, deadlines are satisfactory, but what is controversial and what happens from year to year is that certain local authorities do not respect certain deadlines from this calendar, and everyone knows that no one has ever been responsible for the consequences of not meeting the budget calendar of the local authorities. Also, section VIII. The external audit, article 89, reads: "The final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the final accounts of the mandatory social security organisation must be subject to external audit in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the jurisdiction of the State Auditing Institution. The local authorities may hire an auditor with appropriate qualifications to carry out an external audit of the final budget of the local authorities... '". What is the local government’s decision under the law? In the solutions so far, local authorities have been obliged to organise, and now it is in the assembly to decide whether there will be an appointment of audit institutions and it is certain that no one will control the local government anymore as it spends the budgets that are being realised in this way. Finally, I would like to call again, since I am from Sremska Mitrovica, Mrs Zlatica Stevanovic, to allow the court scribe to arrive at the SRS Municipal Committee of Sremska Mitrovica and that he is not trying to prevent what is already visible, and that is Tomislav Nikolic's victory in the upcoming elections for the president of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14209	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and then a National MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that this government at least adheres to some basic democratic principles, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic and Minister Cvetkovic should not sit here because this government should not be. In fact, the Serbian government has broken deadlines and deadlines it has set for itself to adopt the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia. If you look at the current Budgetary System Act and look at this Bill on the Budgetary System, you will see that nothing has changed – the budget of the Republic of Serbia should already be passed. The government of the Republic of Serbia alone is responsible for not being brought in. It is an elementary principle of all parliamentary democracies that the government is falling to the budget unless the budget is passed within the time limit provided for by the law. It's a rule that applies both in the UK and France and Germany. It doesn't seem to apply in Serbia. A previous question is now asked: Will the government be able to apply this same principle, which it has set for itself, which is that it is not bound by the deadlines set by law, to apply to all other citizens, i.e. legal persons in the Republic of Serbia? Will this government, like this, ever be able to tell anyone in the Republic of Serbia -- you can't exercise some of your rights, or will you be sanctioned because you didn't respect the deadlines set by law? Will this government have the nerve to say such a thing to someone when she, here she is, all witnesses, and citizens of Serbia following the transfer, violate the legal norms relating to the deadlines for the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget? If that were the case, you can tell from Article 45. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system. The article is quite clear: Budget is brought for a period of one fiscal year and is valid for the year for which it was brought. In the event that the National Assembly does not adopt a budget within a fixed budget calendar, temporary funding shall take place in the maximum period of the first three months of the fiscal year. So, Mr. Djelic, we have already entered into a period of temporary funding, deadlines for the adoption of the budget law have expired. Before you say anything about any draft law today on the agenda of the National Assembly of Serbia, you should go out for this speaker and explain to the peoples and citizens of Serbia: who authorized you to violate the Law on the Budgetary System yourself, which are the reasons for not passing the 2008 budget law, and are you going to apply that same principle to all other legal entities in the Republic of Serbia? Just to remind you, Mr. Djelic, the Law on Local Self-Government is prescribed that the local assembly, therefore the assembly of the municipality, or the City Assembly, may be disbanded if it does not adopt a budget within the time limit set by the Budgetary System Act. Now I ask you, Mr. Vice-President of the Government: will this government disband a local assembly if that local assembly does not bring the budget within the deadline set by the Budgetary System Act, and this same government has violated the deadline for proposing the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly in more than a month? It's a scandal in itself. Not to go into what the draft law says in the budget system, what it says in all other drafts of the law, that is one previous issue, and legally and politically, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself has given itself the right not to adhere to the deadlines set by law, but these are not the laws proposed by someone else, these are again the laws proposed by the Serbian Government itself. Mr. Djelic came out, but here's Mr. Cvetkovic. I really don't understand, Mr. Minister, what a need it is for you in the government to use foreign expressions not only that citizens don't understand, but it is a big question whether they are understood by all those who are going to apply this law tomorrow. Namely, in Article 2(2), point 21, you mention the expression aproprietion. You're giving a pretty big definition of this concept, and I remind you that in Serbian you have a much nicer expression, which is recognizable to everyone and who everyone understands, that they don't break language, which is budgetary giving. Instead of using the term budget givings, you use the expression apropriety, whether because you want to fascinate the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how you use foreign words that sound so glamorously or because of some other reason. Furthermore, one of the terms you define at the beginning of the draft budget system law is in Article 2 paragraph 34), which is the development aid of the European Union. And in many places in this bill, you insist on this syntagmic development aid of the European Union. Serbian citizens are witnesses that the European Union, here, recently, several days ago, and every day, manifests an unhindered will to recognise the independence of Kosovo and the Metohija it will declare, unilaterally and contrary to Resolution 1244, Cypriot separatists and terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija. Except for Cyprus, Slovakia, Romania and Spain, if I am not mistaken, all other members of the European Union have expressed readiness to suspend negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija and to recognise the fact that it is, in fact, recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, for which the Cypriot separatist leaders are already well-prepared. When the European Union gives us help, it also determines what we will spend, and for what purposes, and at what rate, and we just need to make money, or money for the citizens of Serbia. No one has been here since the Serbian Parliament's speech since 2000, and to this day, explained to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that these were the spent financial resources given to us by the European Union. If you remember, before that September election in 2000, the main slogan of DOS was: "Come on, citizens of Serbia, let's take down the Socialists and Radicals regime and, as soon as it does, some big money will arrive in Serbia, some huge grant loans will arrive, will be passed on to Serbia's honey and milk, and the issue of Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija will be resolved along the way, because, for God's sake, this is neither a national issue, nor a religious issue, nor a historical issue, all of these are democratic issues. Slobodan Milosevic failed to resolve the issue of Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija because he was not a Democrats, and here, choose us, let us take over the government of Serbia, all these problems will be resolved tomorrow, Montenegro will remain in the common state, will be removed from the agenda of the issue of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, we will get donations, we will get foreign loans and, in December 2007, Serbian citizens testify that there is absolutely nothing. You buried one common state, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and after three years you buried another common state, Serbia-Montenegro, here, Kosovo and Metohija are on the verge of separating themselves from the Republic of Serbia, and a blessing for all of this will be given by the international association that is supposed to provide us with development aid. I'm sorry Mr. Djelic got out of the O.R. I can ask Mr Cvetkovic that question, but I think that Mr Djelic is more invited to answer that question since, as far as I am aware, he is in charge of European integration in the government of Serbia: Is this one big and dishonest trade on Kosovo and Metohija? That's what I'm asking for two reasons. First: will this development aid of the European Union to Serbia be conditioned by our consent to separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia and then the question of how much it costs, this country of Serbian history, how many billion euros and dollars will pay for the Western mentors of this government? The second question: when it comes to the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, is it not, in some cases, a condition that the Republic of Serbia, in one way or another, disown Kosovo and Metohija? So, does the European Union tell us: okay, you will be admitted, at least in the lobby of this organization if not in full membership, but provided you enter into that association crippled, as a state with disabilities, so, without Kosovo and Metohija? Since I can assume what some members of the government think about this problem, I fear that certain parts of the Serbian government, and above all those of DS, are ready to accept this dishonest trade and give up Kosovo and Metohija for a handful of silversmiths who are supposed to come from the European Union. It is truly incomprehensible that in the Bill on the Budgetary System, the Serbian Government proposes that the budget could be passed over a three-year period. Let me remind you that in 2007 alone, the budget was not rebalanced, and not because the ministers who proposed this budget were very capable and very smart, but because the budget of the Republic of Serbia was only brought in in June of this year and there was simply no conditions for budget rebalancing. How do you think, Mr. Minister, to make a stable and sound budget for three years when, here, all the Dossos governments have proven backwards that they are unable to bring any decent budgets, not even for one calendar, or fiscal year? Is this how you plan to abolish the institution of elections in the Republic of Serbia, to abolish the institution of the National Assembly and that the Assembly does not discuss the budget at all, that the Assembly does not discuss at all how the Serbian Government, how the ministries, how all these powerful agencies spend budgets? It will bring the budget in three years and for the next three years the issue of the budget, its spending, its legality, its justification, its consistency will be put forward ad act. I'm afraid that's the real reason why the government is proposing this possibility. Fortunately, this Serbian government will obviously not be able to use this legal authority since it is only a matter of days when this artificial coalition will fall apart and the coalition's collapse, of course, includes the government's fall. Furthermore, in Article 15, point 8 - the law introduces a tax on the use, holding and carrying of certain goods. Mr. Minister, this tax is extremely harmful and unnecessary. When some good people are put into use, that's when taxes are paid. Force citizens to pay taxes per year for use, holding and carrying certain goods, there is no justification. It is an unfounded imposition for citizens, a financial burden that has not enough ground in either economic, financial, political, or legal theory. I suggest to you, or the MPs of the SRS, have suggested that point 8 be deleted in Article 15. Next, in Article 21. - Receipts from borrowing and sale of financial assets are considered: domestic borrowing, foreign borrowing, domestic asset sales and foreign asset sales. The SRS has proposed that Article 21 be deleted in the draft law. Firstly, I have already said, there is no need to exaggerate the debt of the Republic of Serbia either in the country or abroad. All previous Dossos governments apparently dramatically abused this foreign borrowing. Our country is over-indebted, i.e. we are much more in charge, here, now in 2007, than we were in 2000, when DOS took over in an unconstitutional and illegal manner. Mr. Minister, I need you to stop the uncontrolled printing and broadcasting of securities of value. In financial terms, it produces the same effect as uncontrollable printing of money. The uncontrollable printing of paper is of no use to Serbian citizens. The benefits are only the stock exchanges, those who are trying to launder money and, of course, we do not doubt that certain ministers in the Serbian government, individual directors of agencies, etc., who take extremely high fees from all of this. In the end, in order not to waste any more time on my colleagues from the SRS, I'll only give one legal objection. It's about article 100. We in the SRS believe that all crimes in the Republic of Serbia must be systematised in one place. And practice has shown that such a solution is best. Citizens of Serbia, courts and all those in need of criminal law can easily learn about the crimes in one country, the sanctions etc. DOS introduced the practice that crimes are prescribed by a large number of different laws, and then citizens of Serbia and economic operators are in doubt whether something is a crime or not. We believe that this parallel criminal law should either be completely abolished or reduced to the least possible extent. You, Mr. Minister, in article 100, have prescribed one crime - 'The fine of 30,000 to 300,000 dinars or prisons for up to one year will be punishable for the crime of a responsible person... '". So we believe that these criminal provisions simply have no place in the draft law on the budgetary system, that this should be the matter of the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, and that the law on the budgetary system must only stand for the matter which is called this bill and implies. Since Mr Djelic left the National Assembly session, here I call on you, Mr Minister, once again, to explain to the national MPs and citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transfer – on the basis of which the government has violated the deadline for adopting, or proposing the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, and whether this government will be able to disband any local assembly in Serbia because the local assembly has not adopted the budget within the time-limited law. The councilors in these local congregations will always be able to tell you: Mr. Minister, first you stick to the law, and then insist that the law is applied in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14211	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then a National MP, Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14212	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought that there would be authorized persons who were to be present, besides Mr Cvetkovic, that Mr Vlahovic, who was about to give some answers to questions that I would ask him and the Deputy Prime Minister, as well as the Finance Minister Mr Cvetkovic. It's been a while since 2000, in 2001, when you blamed those who did power before you, when you said that everything that was wrong was because the previous government, which was made by radicals and socialists, didn't know that government. But, as we have seen during the seven-year DOS rule, and these laws you want in some way to find certain implementations, which are the law on the income of enterprises and the law on income tax on citizens. I ask you how to operate both the law and other when today on Serbian territory no large company, no large system works, does not work, or, that is, everything that is privatised, everything that has been sold, in fact, was taken only because of adequate construction land and certain infrastructures, not for a particular purpose, to continue these companies production. If we look at what this privatisation has done, the law, in fact, which, by its own use, by its implementation, was to be found by the owner, the owner. But back then, in 2001, Serbian radicals warned that the sale of enterprises would not be done fairly and that certain tycoons from the Dossian government would reach these factories without an estimated real value. That's actually what happened. If we look at this booklet, and if you see it, you will see that the biggest culprits for this privatisation, which is criminally done in Serbia, are, in fact, the Privatisation Agency, the Ministry of Business and the judicial authorities. Well, if I didn't, then there's the donation ministry, because, I don't know, one of my colleagues mentioned big donations, it's Aleksandar Martinovic, who arrived in Serbia, but who lost every lead. Ladies and gentlemen, this book says they're sugars, it's usually five-six dollars or five-six euros, but it says here that three sugars are bought for 183 dinars. Gentlemen, and if I read you the value of these sugars and how much sugar was on the lager back then, that was 72,000 tons of sugar, with an estimated value of 73m euros. Now I'm asking you, this profit law for those who took those factories doesn't mean anything, but I'm asking you, what exactly happened to this money, or these tons that were the sugar reserves, that belonged to the owner who bought the candy? Not to mention "Sartid" which is also a special story, where Minister Vlahovic, prime ministers and others were involved, to say, perpetrators, and authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, you were not in the previous term a part of the government, but you were a part of the government indirectly, through the President of the Republic, because you wanted to hide those criminal traces of yours, because you thought that citizens knew everything about you, about your criminal activities, about what you did in Serbia. What I also want to point out is that here in the income tax law, you say that in article 28 percent of '14%' is replaced by a percentage of '10%', in the explanation you are talking about the release of farmers from the obligation to pay taxes on agricultural and forestry income for a period of two years (2008 and 2009). Ladies and gentlemen, that's the least you could do, and you didn't actually do anything for a peasant. You freed him from paying a cadastrian tax, and where did you not free him from paying disability and pension insurance that was drastically higher for these two years? Surely to help such a law better a farmer, a peasant, the only work hero you're fighting today and who you're taking off from and what he's earned and what he's not, because today you've led the peasants to a beggar stick. There was a good talk by my colleague Petar Jojic when he said how much funds had been allocated from the budget, and you could help the peasant, to provide him with favourable loans, even if it was going to be so that he could get to a more quality and newer equipment with which he could work on his fields today. If you look at Vojvodina today, Srem, Sword, Posavina, Shumadi, you'll see that on these 30-year-old tractors, they're older tractors or drivers. Everyone here, whatever government changes, seems to me, is talking about one brand today in Serbia, which is about the production of healthy food. I don't know how you think this healthy food is produced or what Serbia will boast today to go to the European market. You keep mentioning these laws that matter in order to actually calculate the laws of the European Union, which is one big failure. We need to understand that the European Union is one thing, and Serbia is something else. Europe is a story to itself, and Serbia is a story to itself. Serbia must find its own market where it can be competitive, where it can export its goods. He can't export something that's probably not good quality, but it might be better packed, so it's already on the Western European market. That's why it takes our product to go east, towards the countries of friendly Africa and Asia, where they haven't reached that level we've reached yet. I have to tell you, I'm a man of technique, from the '80s to the year 2000 we were significant in the production of process equipment. This process equipment was produced in our significant giants, such as "October 14th" in Kruševec. I'm talking about knowing this factory well and its production, but I'm asking you, where is the production of this factory today, and where are our production opportunities that we could export? We don't have them. Today Serbia's only brand is importing everything and everything. The trade lobby allowed Serbia's market to be closed from its domestic products today. Just look at the agricultural products. They don't have any price. What you're offering, these subsidies from 14% to 10%, is actually a colorful lie where you want farmers to equalize with independent actions, with craftsmen, and you know that you've put out that institution, these small businesses, too. As Professor Vojislav Seselj used to say about this pay phone in 2001, sheep are cut once a year, but they can't cut their hair in winter because if they cut their hair in winter, then they'll miss it. So you realize that what you're doing with this budget system law, you're actually trying to protect you, or as I just said, God forbid there's another law that speaks, as we talked about the former president, that there's also a formulation of the law on former ministers. I'd wonder where Mr. Vlahovic's place would be, the man who destroyed everything in this country. I think that by his actions and work, he has shown in fact the image of the Democratic Party. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, your particular credibility or your strength is, in fact, that you proclaim traitors to be heroes, and those who have given their lives to this country, those who have defended the borders of this country with their lives, you pronounce them traitors, like all those heroes in The Hague tribunal, as heroes of Professor Vojislav Seselj. I hope that on January 21st, it will shine Serbia's radical sun and that Tomislav Nikolic will become Serbia's true savior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14213	The word has a People's MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic, and then a National MP, Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14214	Gentlemen, first of all, I wanted to finish the story about the Magnochrom from the Kings that I started today with Mr. Djelic. In the meantime, I received a fax from the president of the municipality that they could not deliver solutions at the session today, but had sent some requests to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Council for the Reduction of Poverty. So, today they are at a meeting held in the Municipality of Kralje on 14 December, attended by the president of the municipality, vice president, deputy president of the Kingdom Assembly, representatives of all committee groups and representatives of all three Magnochroma unions. At the request of the union, after considering the situation, the position is taken to ask the Privatisation Agency to take all the measures envisaged by law and to step up all activities to meet the obligations under the social capital contract "Magnochroma". Not to be too long, Mr Djelic took the obligation today, he said he would solve this problem, but they eventually simply addressed the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Council for the Reduction of Poverty. Personally, I believe that this way of addressing and this address they have addressed is a real sin and shame for Serbia and this government, that people who have worked this many years at Magnochroma, who have built this Magnochrom, who have 2,205 employees in the same company, must eventually address their capital at the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and the Council for the Reduction of Poverty. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, please take this seriously. It offends me both as a man and as an MP who comes from this city, and has a moral obligation, that you allowed these people to descend to this level and this way to beg their own state for something that is natural to them. So you're supposed to handle this. They say, "We seek solidarity through a one-time cash donation." That's terrible. It's below every level. In fact, this is your government policy for all eight years, that you taught people to look for something small every time, that is, every time, every year, you give them a little bit and then, when it comes to elections... I've had opportunities in the field, as representative of the SRS, to be asked: and what are you offering? I'm under the honor of saying, you know, I'm offering 50 kilos of flour, I'm going to get you 200 grams of coffee, a sugar cube, or something like that, like you do. Don't do that. Don't underestimate our people. Trust me, because one day you won't have a people. You don't care, because you think you're going to rule, I don't know how much, so what do you want to know after that? One more thing to tell you, which is very important. In addition, they say, "Find a legal opportunity to provide health care for all Magnochroma employees". Since 1.1.2008 they have received health care, people cannot be treated. ''We can't be treated at the health center of the Studenica... '"I've got that letter, too, and I'll talk about it when it's your turn. You have volunteers doctors, people who have completed six years of medicine. The hospital director takes him in for three months and then fires him. What are we doing with our intelligence, with this young man of ours? I don't know what to tell you when your scientists strike. Well, it's nowhere in the world. I think you'll take this seriously. So 2,205 employees, times four, so 10,000 people in the King are hungry. Personally, I believe that these two requirements, which are somehow minimal, are below each level and I appeal to people not to go down to this level at all, because they belong much more, I demand compensation for these people, I demand a return to their previous condition, that their property be returned, the gentleman who cut the high furnaces to make them, and I seek a lost profit for this time. Gentlemen of the Agency and gentlemen of the Government, please respond and do this job. That's what this is about, and that's what I had to say. Something else that's about the King. We always get good information through the media, whether it's television, whether it's a newspaper, and they say here, "Djelic controls the funds from the European Union's development funds," so I don't read it all, he says, "Serbia has managed to use 93% of European aid of 1.4 billion euros since 2000." So we used 93%. Where's the money? Listen here: The value of this fund is a billion euros that Serbia will be able to use in the next four years for social and economic development, and the members of the commission are: Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Economy and Regional Development Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Director of the Office for Association of the European Union Tanja Miscevic, Minister of Infrastructure Velimir Ilic, Minister of Trade and Services Predrag Bubalo, Milan Markovic and Dragan Djilas. So then he says, "Djelic has stated that these funds will be spent in areas where they are most needed... "and so in order. And now I'm asking him, and he's not here. Bozidar Djelic, from the place: Here, I am here. Great, you're just in time. I hope your colleagues can tell you what I said about Magnochrom. So there's a memo here what they did today. I want to ask you, most importantly for the city of Kraljevo, since we have so many refugees, that we have such a single social impact, a complete social impact that is normally reflected in both health care and schooling, and morale, after all, on everything that is related to one human life... Well, the reading isn't yours, but please don't send people from the white world any more after the King, except proportionally. I also want to warn the government that petitions are being written in the King where people will not be accepted unless they are proportionately divided throughout Serbia, considering that wave of refugees we have already received, which is somewhere near 30,000 inhabitants. That's one thing. The second thing, given that you are the ones who control the development funds from the European Union funds, and says that you will watch where you spend them, which areas are most needed, I ask you: have you ever put in line a water line in the King? Do you know, yesterday I mentioned that the Ibar River is leaving Kosovo? I listened well and carefully to what the Serbian government is doing regarding the action plans it prepares in the event of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. Have you prepared an action plan? I asked yesterday and today I'm asking the government. Please answer me. So, have you prepared an action plan on water, or drinking water in the King? We've got out-of-date wells pouring out regularly overnight, polluting, and these are major infections. When it comes to a set of health care laws, I will tell you how many malignancies we have and how many diseases we have in the King. Please, Djelic, put in line the water priority. So we drink water from Ibra, Ibar comes from Kosovo, it's full of phenols anyway, it's constantly polluted, and there's not enough water anyway. That's two very important problems. The third problem, you write petitions, take care of the reading and the people you'll send to the King of the White World. As Serbian radicals we are not against it, we will receive everything, but please, all equally. To move to this point of the agenda, it's this set of budget laws. So we have four system laws: budget system law, company profit law, capital gains and citizen income. Basically, these laws don't have the facts. I believe that a law that cannot be applied in normal life, in ordinary life, and from which citizens have no use, and I haven't seen anyone from the government come out here and said, I'm talking about ministers who came to explain it nicely and nicely, I haven't heard from any of them and said, "Listen, people, this is for ordinary citizens that, that, that, that, and that; people, you have this law, that, that, and that. There's nothing, people, you're just telling big stories and you have terrible nice words, macroeconomic restructuring and stuff. Believe me, since 2000, I don't want to speak in person, but your words: transition, education and transparency, please don't use any more, they didn't mean anything to us so far. One more thing, I'm talking about the law on the budget system, just now, when Minister Cvetkovic explained the law on the budget system, among other things, were the two important things I wrote down – he said in 2002 it was a revolutionary achievement. Be careful, the law on the budget system is a revolutionary achievement, which is really symptomatic and should be asked. It says-- which should allow transparency. Now I ask: where is this transparency? Where's your final bill anyway? (Mirko Cvetkovic, from the post: It is in progress, will come to the Assembly. He's in progress, isn't he, he's coming to the assembly? I don't know, I didn't hear you had any final accounts after 2000. (Mirko Cvetkovic, from the scene: everyone is here.) They're all here somewhere in your drawer. No problem at all. Don't tell people that you've passed the bill on the budget system, that it's revolutionary and transparent when it's not both. One more thing, what I could see – what is hiding in the essence of this law? In fact, there's a possibility that the budget is projected, or that's three years from now, which is actually done, I don't know if you, Mr. Minister, are aware of whether the government has imposed it on you or is still creating someone very bright, where he imagines the next thing. Since you started reforming the state administration and you can't keep doing it because then you're gonna fire a lot of workers, then you're in a hurry, you're afraid of how you're going to do it, and then what did you do? Then, in the meantime, you're not going to get a government drop, that there's no temporary funding, and that you can function as a government, then you made it look like it could be some kind of three-year budget. How can you budget for three years when you're not able, as Government, to do it in a year? Yesterday I told you, you're full of fiscal policy, it's normal to charge – but of which fiscal policy? – which is entirely wrong for you, you take from the people and from the privatisation. In two years, you have nothing to sell. Now you're going to sell, by the end of next year, and that's the end of it. How do you talk about a budget for two years after that? That budget can't exist. It would be okay if you had a development budget. You said it - it has to be in three years because we can't cancel the numbers for a year. Because, for God's sake, you have some big projects. Why don't you cut the number for a year? Do it while you're in power, but that doesn't mean you have to be in power for another three years to realize what's in the budget. Who are you talking to? Don't say that. We're neither small nor insecure, nor uneducated here. We know exactly what we're doing and we know very well what you're doing. Please don't lie to this people anymore. Especially do not mislead the entire Serbian people and us Serbian radicals. You can see that someone is reading you very nicely, that someone is very well following you, that someone knows what you are doing, but I just appealed to you – have a little emotional intelligence. So play, play, and hit the belt. I think your gig is over. Right, Djelic? (Božidar Djelic, from the place: No. It's not? Okay. But in order to no longer take time for you, I personally think, to tell you, that three-year budget, you don't have to realize, it's going to be realized by the SRS. Make the household conditions, as the host of the house, make such conditions that each of your numbers has its own meaning, so you can also stay in power and walk with power. But none of your numbers make sense. She's just a declarative type and character. What you have done looks like this – Serbia cannot function unless we are in power. So, you're dealing with one social manipulation of people and then you're putting people in fear again -- if we don't rule for two more years, what we started can't end. It means you're a non-domestic ruler. This means that when the host of the house dies, he carries everything, his children cannot continue to live. Right, Djelic? They can keep living! Serbia can live without you, and it should live without you, and it will live without you from 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14215	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic, then MPs Vlado Sekulic, Vladan Batic and Zdravko Topalovic, as an authorised representative, eventually Srdjan Spasojevic reported. In the end, if he wishes, Minister. Let's get this over with, since today was a deal to work until 6:00, here we go, a little bit longer. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14216	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll only be one minute, in accordance with Article 225. The representatives of the Kingdom Assembly held a proposal at yesterday's session, which formed the SPS parliamentary group, to put the Magnochrom problem on the agenda of yesterday's session. The other councilmen didn't accept that. That's why SPS committees left the session. What the president of the municipality today, in the form of a presidential statement, has made public is the story of what he and his ruling majority yesterday were not ready to accept in the municipal assembly. That's what I said because the presidents of the Royal Union and the SPS committee asked me to announce. It's just that, here, a minute and five seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14217	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The People's MP Vladan Batic has the word, and let MP Vlado Sekulic be prepared. Mr. Batic, there are 13 minutes left for your assembly club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to just a few details relating to the budget system law and budgetary revenues and expenditures. I'd like to make some plastic examples about that. One is the income obtained by selling real estate. Today, in the morning part of the session, we heard praises about the epochal work that was done by selling the Belgrade Stock Houses, so I could spoil that idyll. This is today's ruling by the Trade Court in Belgrade, today received at 14.12 p.m. at 15.15 p.m. The ruling finds that the defendant, the Company of RK "Belgrade" from Belgrade, etc., has no property over real estate and there are three of the most exclusive facilities in Knez Mihail Street. That's one in disposition of this verdict. Under two, a temporary measure has been laid down, so the alienation or load of these immovableities is prohibited. Under three, it is established that zero registration, registration of the data of the Company for Trade of the KR "Belgrade" company is in bankruptcy, registered with the Agency for Business Registers, etc. So every privatisation and sale here is an affair and a crime. During the sale of the shopping houses in Belgrade, we heard a dissuasive statement from the director of the Privatisation Agency, which claimed that the possible compensation of the owner of the nationalised property would be the obligation of a future buyer. The buyer said: I bought everything, paid everything, and I had nothing to do with it; and the court said: what was sold and is located in Prince Michael's street and is not owned by the Robing Houses and cannot be subject to alienation, burden, or sale. So we see how the current power works. That's what I've been doing here before. The Belgrade trade court has already reached an identical verdict and an identical provisional measure once. On the same day, a complaint was filed, on the same day it arrived at the Higher Trade Court, the same day the Higher Trade Court abolished the verdict, returned to the retrial, in order to make such illegal and irregular sales more and more possible as soon as possible. Then she went, following a report from former owners, the Justice Department's judicial oversight commission, and found a series of shortcomings in the proceedings before the Senior Trade Court. The epilogue is what I just read to you. That's the first thing. It's another thing. Again, it concerns income and attempts to privatize, and here you will also hear one curiosity, many companies, or all social enterprises, especially companies, or companies from the former Republic of the SFRY. We remember that the property of many of them has already been alienated, "Vartex", "Yugoplastics", "Chromas", "Krash" etc. There is one company left from former SFRY, or from Croatia, which fell behind the eyes of the tycoons. It is "Borov", which in Serbia has a Borelli factory in Somboro and 140 stores in 50 cities in the best places, all of us know more than anyone, in the strictest centre of these cities, with more than 30,000 square meters, which, according to a simple account, has a real market value of between 80m and 100m euros. In time, by the Serbian government Regulation, from 1992 to 2000, the Borova property was given to guard Borelia, but it was forgotten that all former SFRY republics signed and ratified an international conflict agreement that certainly has more power than any of these internal legal acts. However, we have a case, and I'm going to talk about this in particular, the Traveller company, where the order of the Arbitrage in Paris is passed which is not respected here, so the government has reached a conclusion that is just signed by Vice President Djelic to return the money invested in Traveler, so that the money has not been returned to this day. But to get back to Borovo. So, the Borelli company, which is some kind of a Successor or follower, though irregular, Borovo company, is systematically collapsing, taxes and contributions are being written down, many locals are being issued etc. And then the privatisation of the company "Boreli", i.e. "Borova", was announced, regardless of what the Croatian property was, with the reason that the property of our companies was sold in Croatia too, etc. Now we have what I said was curiosity, which is about the double morale that has become the rule here, so Borovo has sued both the Borelli and the state of Serbia. To make a miracle bigger, Borova's legal representative, who on behalf of Borova, sued the state of Serbia and Borelli's company, is a member of the ruling coalition and sits here among us. Anyone can say: it is not contrary to the Code of Legal Ethics, but if you are a lawyer and even a national MP, and on behalf of the Croatian firm sue the state of Serbia, then there is little moral problem, is there not? So that should be paid attention, because something that is attractive and exclusively faster-better trying to sell overnight. In the morning, I presented a detail of the company "Zelvos", which will be a story in the future, a factory with 1,700 employees, with factory halls of exceptional quality, on the surface of more than ten hectares, which, according to estimates, was worth 38m dollars, and is now being sold for a million euros to the Romanian company "Gramped". We need to see what the owner of this Romanian company has been up to, so we can see very easily and beautifully what partners of today's government who are faster and better, as well as in the case of Magnochroma, which we have heard very much about, selling local property, not talking about the responsibility of the people of the railways, it's already been talked about from this place, about selling, or buying locomotives over the buty, about that most expensive toilet in the world, 39 squares for 70,000 euros, which is why I'm afraid that the whole of Serbia reminds me of this monumental facility, but this is the same example of a full-fledged privatisation that is yet to be said. As part of what is called budget expenditure, there is also something that costs are for employees. This country is shaken by numerous strikes, but little attention is paid to the strike of staff in the administration. Here, on behalf of their union, I would like to ask the government's representatives whether they are familiar with the fact that employees in municipal authorities strike. Do you know how to determine the salaries of employees in the municipal authorities of the administration? Do you know what these salaries are? Do you know what other budget users' salaries are? Will regulations be passed that regulate the position of employees in municipal administrations? When will they be brought in and why are they not brought in in time, or when the Law on civil servants is passed? Do you know that you make social cases with such salaries and even worse pensions being accounted for on the basis of these miserable salaries? Do you know that the collective contract hasn't been signed for more than two years even though the proposal existed? Is this kind of discrimination between municipal administration workers and whether the reduction of public spending is done exclusively by reducing the salaries of municipal administration workers and by increasing the salaries of employees in various agencies and administrations established by the Government? I still have a lot of questions, but I think this subject really deserves attention. These people have been brought to the level of social cases with poor incomes and must not be grumbled over the fact that these people, and there are many in Serbia, turned into second-class citizens. I think there's a lot of mumbling in this country and I'm warning again about a military reserve strike that's taking on an ever-increasing situation. Their strike committee will organise a front here in front of the Assembly or near the Assembly in the coming days. They will block polling stations in southern Serbia, and there are enough to do so at the time of the election. No one is paying attention to this, or to be honest, the only respect, the only interest and the only good will has shown at the meeting with the strike board the other night, Minister Rasim Ljajic, who has no authority over their problem, but at least has the will and desire to listen to them, to bring their problem to the level of government, because it must inevitably go to the events. Mr. Cvetkovic, last time, I asked you a question concerning the funds foreseen in the budget for the Anti-Corruption Council. You replied that the amount of funds they requested was approved. I wasn't there when you delivered this paper with their request for current expenditure and with your ministry's note on the planning of funds for the Anti-Corruption Council and thank you for delivering it to me, because we need to talk on the basis of papers and documents. The only thing you failed to tell me was that in mid-July, in fact, in July 18th, the Ministry of Finance sent a manual on the adoption of the 2008 Memorandum of Budgets and Economic Fiscal Policy, etc. This guideline states that social contributions to employees, rewards, bonuses and other specific expenditures, travel costs, contract services and specialised services can be planned up to the level of planned expenditure in 2007 and that the total collection of claims must not exceed the total amount of the proposed appropriations allocated to the budget user. Since you told them that they couldn't ask for more than they could have and had for 2007, then about it – so this isn't my invention, this is what I talked about with the President of the Anti-Corruption Council, Mrs. Verica Barac, and that information and this paper I got from her, or from the Anti-Corruption Council, and this is what I had to make clear the truth. Anyway, thank you for delivering this document to me because I think that's the way to talk, unlike Mr. Vice President who hasn't responded yet, and he's bound by Article 200. The Rules of Procedure, the well-intentioned questions I referred to him this morning, which relate personally to him. This does not require any preparation within eight days that would be necessary for some other spheres and other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14219	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the budgetary system has envisioned and imagined that this law single-handedly regulates the issue of implementation of funding under the Constitution and the law of established competences of more than 9,500 budgetary users. SRS MPs have a lot of amendments to this bill. That's why you can see, through it, that we think this law is bad and that it hasn't adequately addressed this topic. Public revenues and receipts are a subject which differs between the SRS and the proposings. It is high time to break the practice of making public revenues your own because as such they reduce the revenue side of the budget and give the executive authority the opportunity to spend in a hidden suspicious way people's money outside the control of the executive authority. It is necessary to finally define the obligations of the adoption of the subsidy law. You still hold the practice of subsidies based on regulations, which is inadmissible. You are again directing us to co-finance the development programme on the European Union. If we go back to that part, to the EU, we remember that in this year we have passed laws - CEFTA, customs, tobacco and tobacco processing... and it's always been the European Union's orientation: just this obstacle to skip, so we'll get to the EU. If we could look at all the laws we've adopted, that is. You adopted them, and we fought against these laws, and now we stand at the point that they are harmful to Serbia and its citizens, whenever we did that, we were directed to banks, to projects, to which we should pay, how much we should pay, and we were always the party that was at a loss in this business, and hence also to the citizens of Serbia. We were literally just wondering who we were going to pay, and what we're going to do in the end, and who's going to benefit from it, which we've basically come to, we don't even know until now. Budgetary revenues should be shown by sources, by applying so far the practice of aggregated displays that allow for insight into the budgetary process, as well as by controlling its spending. So it would be clearer to everyone, and you would really see where the funds go, who spends it, and how much they spend. The powers of the minister are also great in this law, which is also reflected in Article 7. The institution to carry out the law of the envisaged activity should be a ministry, not a minister. In the "Investing of funds" section, you can see how you allow the possibility of abuse. The damage would be practically suffered by state authorities and local self-government, and usually banks would benefit. This is where he keeps focusing on the banks. I don't mean now and I'm not alluding to you because of Meridian's bank, which I've asked you in these last two or three months or more, but it's simply creating the impression that all of these laws have the most benefits of banks. Okay, the banks are set up to benefit, but this is really something that's always directed at banks. That's how our citizens, because of their simple existence, to survive, are constantly focusing on some banks, on using credits with extremely large interest rates like they are here in Serbia. Just as the state is entering a debt crisis, so our citizens are slowly entering a debt crisis. That's how I explained yesterday, in the budget, that you literally replace the budget by selling everything out. That would be the same if the citizens were to sell part of their inventory, apartment, and eventually they would end up without an apartment, as if, if it continued like this, this country would run out of resources, especially I'm talking about these companies that would come to privatization. This system now that you've offered, that everyone gets action, it's something that will only be seen that not everyone will go so well with actions, so you'll probably have an explanation that not all Serbian citizens are experts like you for actions and for the stock market. As for this part where I've seen, all the tax cuts, the economy and the physical faces, to the harm of each other, you're predicting that self-dependence again. Any normal local self-government and normal state could finance everything itself. Citizens must, therefore, with all these procedures, from taxes, from the profits of businesses and everything else, and now you're re-planning to self-dependencies, to invest yourself in something that they literally through their salaries and everything else invest. And if you look at it realistically, it would be better if you cut the state apparatus through the number of employees and compensated for the funds you planned for self-delivery. The state's apparatus is very bulky. I was just watching, Mr. Djelic, you had a show, you introduced your expert team, you convinced Serbian citizens that you were all these professional people, I don't doubt the expertise now, even though they haven't shown it yet, persuading two or three years to come to Serbia, to go. I remember the example of everyone, that they left so many good salaries in France, as I remember your advisors, you were in your office, and then Goran Cvianovic appeared. Mile Transition, Mile Chubur, and now Mile is from New Belgrade. I live in New Belgrade and I don't get it. In the final part of the show, he thanks Mile Transition, such -- thank you very much to Mr. Željko Ozegovic. That's where I come slowly to the story of local self-government. That's your team of advisors. I watched as they all gave up, the same story repeated, as when you came to Serbia -- that you gave up a good job there, came to your aunt to live, that you would do anything for Serbia -- so all your associates from the expert team on television... ( Bozidar Djelic, from the place: Don't touch your aunt.) I don't touch my aunt, I touch you. I'm talking about you specifically. Aunt, wife, it's nothing to blame, nor does she affect it, but you've always had a reason. You've located yourself, Mr. Djelic, at your aunt's house. Now you're located in a villa, right? Now you're in a villa, and you've been to your aunt's house. I can't skip one part of your development road in Serbia right now. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Bora Šnyder. ....................................................................................................... Thank you, Miss Natasha. Okay, maybe that would be a compliment. Let's move on. It continues with the practice of borrowing and the sale of financial assets. We saw there that you were planning on this budget -- we're going to be in debt, loans, whether they're abroad, whether they're in the country, it's a matter of what conditions, where banks, whether they're justified or unwarranted. In principle, we again come to a bank and individual ministers who can direct those funds and through it speculators or tycoons, to say and ministers, have a percentage and certain privileges. I've seen that you've even predicted for local self-government that they're also given the opportunity to print securities of value and sell financial assets. I have now located a little on my New Belgrade since everything that could have been sold out in New Belgrade has been sold out. There's still some squares left, some weed like that -- some concrete, otherwise it's all sold out. If local self-government starts printing securities of value to cover some of their losses, and there are a lot of local self-government that literally, and their public enterprises, are doing business with loss -- well, it's going to be really tragic. I know why you wrote this - because at this point you hold most of the local self-government in Serbia. It's normal for you to allow your local self-governments and your community presidents to benefit from all this. But if they go into debt too, who's going to pay it back? Well, you know, citizens again. We keep going round and round and round. Every time you ask who has to pay for it, they're citizens. In the part of the infringement proceedings, you are literally giving local self-government instructions that do not belong to it, even though you know that inspections and supervision, when it comes to public revenues and expenditures and their compliance with applicable laws, can exclusively be carried out by a republican authority. The whole law puts an emphasis on the European Union because of your clear ambition and determination of this current government to co-operate with the EU, to enter it even though it is unrequited love -- you always will, they will not, and so we are spinning around to the detriment of Serbian citizens. I think you could have built in one item, not to rely solely on the European Union. Why don't we rely on the countries that are in a mood, who want honest co-operation with Serbia and that we have mutual benefit? In the first place, I think of Russia. You're constantly potentialing the European Union, and you could've put the Russian Federation on it. In short, I will also refer to the bill on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. Here I wanted to ask the question: Will the requirement for greater extraction from oil excises and public road oil derivatives reflect fuel prices and thus reflect the prices of polymers derived from the oil fraction, i.e. granulate polyethylene and polypropylene? We already talked about it once, Minister Cvetkovic was then, but apparently the man was not directed to polyethylene and polypropylene. In fact, more has been said about the allowed imports due to the decrease in the capital of HIP-Petrochemia and Hipol Odjaks, the exceptional companies in world terms, which are the largest exporters, are really exporting both to Germany and other countries in Europe. If this were to affect the price of derivatives, it would automatically withdraw the price of granules and then it would affect the products of broad consumption, and also the products of tobacco packaging made of polyethylene and polypropylene, and in the end it would increase product prices - and who would ultimately pay for it? - the end user again. That's one question, let's see if that's all it's going to be, that there's only one part of it that's going to be taken without going up, or that's still this theory that I've put out here. This law on the income tax on citizens makes me feel terrible, Mr. Djelic, that it was written because of the upcoming elections and our electoral victory, the SRS and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, and I have one, this time, an illusion. In the part where the profits are processed, I'm under the impression that they had to put this into law to justify your behavior with regard to your actions in Meridian Bank. Here, I'll quote the law. You may recognize yourself, but the citizens will surely recognize that you are embedded in this law as a cornerstone. I quote, do not take away the time after your colleagues: "Capital gain is not determined and does not tax on income generated by the transfer of paper from the values before the sale of the obligor kept in his portfolio for at least three years." Now I ask you openly again, what was the time period when you had the Meridian Bank shares? I ask you again, did you sell them, in which municipality did you pay the profit tax or did you still...? Through this law, you'll hide that money. We know where you live, we easily check it out, we're always informed about you. I'm interested in you now, Mr. Djelic, when we've shared these free shares, so you've divided from your actions, how many do you have, so do you know how many Serbian citizens would get? Sevap would be. And maybe people would really think better of you. Also, when I was talking about AD Posavina, the company from Obrenovac, I was talking about the company and its shareholders. If you are directed, Minister, a group of citizens who were here yesterday, a group of starving, tired, a lady who is a representative of petty shareholders here, has fainted. Let me tell you right now that this company AD Posavina is connected, i.e. Her owner who bought this company and now betrays these clubs to the Chinese and everything else she does, is Slavisa Puric, who has an arsenal of 30 companies. Closest company with Savina Obrenovac is Trnavac Ub. It's a company that has four silos, 15 objects, it's a really big company, and a children's food factory and mills and everything else. It's the same man who bought this company and now the shareholders are fighting, because they're selling basic assets, there's no perspective, it's not going forward, it's going to cancel this privatisation law, and they asked me to hand it over to you, to see what it's like to have a relationship with small shareholders. By law, they have more than 10% and must have their representative in the shareholders' assembly, have to attend, have to be properly informed and have to participate in the decision-making process. As some of the boards you have, so may they participate in all this and have asked me to hand over, I, Vice President, will hand over this paper to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14221	I thank Mr. Sekuliæ. Does anyone else want a word from the MPs as an authorised representative of the Parliament club? The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens, as an authorised representative of the SRS, I have today devoted most of my presentations to the law on income tax, the tax on profits, the law on administrative taxes, and I would now like to say something about the draft law on the budgetary system. It is unacceptable that in such an economic and political situation, Article 2 of the law provides for the adoption of laws and budget decisions for a period of three years. Since 5 October 2000, to date, all budgets have sometimes changed for political reasons only. The exception is this year 2007, but not because Mr Cvetkovic, the DOS government minister, is extremely capable, but because the budget was adopted half the year. But here, Minister, you will enter history. Public revenues are shown by law as your own, which gives the executive authority the possibility of an uncontrollable and hidden way of spending taxpayers' money on Serbia's taxpayers. In the law, in Article 2 paragraph 1, point 34, you referred only to the European Union as a donor of development aid, which is a dedicated grant. We know that your firm commitment is to join the EU and the moment they take away some of our territory. Why didn't you predict that one of the donors was a friendly country? You know our position, first the Russian Federation, but there are certainly more friendly countries to help us. In the "public revenue and incomes and public expenditures and expenditures" section, there are some adjustments to be made that we wrote in the amendments. For example, tax on use, holding and carrying certain goods – you already pay taxes on these goods when you put them on the market and they cannot be taxed infinitely and countless times. Some views of Articles 21 and 24 should be deleted because it should finally be stopped with the further borrowing of the country at the time of the general responsibility of the state. It is better to reduce employees of the state apparatus than provided for in Article 25 by borrowing to ensure the operation of the apparatus. It is a price that all Serbian citizens pay because you from the ruling coalition after 5 October 2000 hired all of your relatives, aunts, aunts, aunts, acquaintances and supporters of your parties in a state apparatus. In Article 89, which refers to external audit, you must change your second position, and it is currently said: "The local authority can hire an auditor with the appropriate qualifications to carry out an external audit of the final budget of the local government, which is decided by the local government's assembly, in accordance with the law." According to this, the local government has no obligation to internal audit, which is inadmissible. That's what you're proposing to cover up all the marifets in local self-government because most of the local self-government is yours. Here, that went hand in hand after the SRS pointed at a series of irregularities in local self-government. I set an example for this assembly speaker of the JP Business Area of Kukarica, which was also the subject of the debate at a session of the Belgrade City Assembly, and in this case is a character and a misdeed of Zoran Alimpic, a board of directors who then held a colleague from the DSS, and then a director from Covic's party - a fine group. The business space achieved a loss of 53 million dinars, established by the auditory house, and 39 showed. That's why no one's answered until today. As taught by this example, I believe that wherever you are in power, no one will think to hire an auditor. Sure. That's what happened at Chukarica when it was an obligation to hire an auditor but the state auditor was gone. The new director came, the truth from the DS, but he probably didn't want to go to jail first, wait for his departure after the others, so he hired an auditor's house to determine these inconveniences. Note, too, our amendments to Articles 86 and 87 relating to the budgetary inspection. Carefully consider all our amendments because they will help you find better solutions than yours. For the end, Mr. Djelic, you weren't present, I've given you criticism for today's lack of presence in our debate. You left earlier, you didn't have the nerve to listen to our story until the end. I am even the solutions for your actions in Meridian Bank to be subject to free distribution to the citizens of Serbia. I'm sure a lot of people would be pleased.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14223	Thank you. Does anyone else appear on this agenda? No, I don't. Thank you. Since there are no more registered Members of the People's Parliaments on the list, and since all representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups have applied, I conclude this item of the agenda, i.e. the principle of the draft law on the budgetary system, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on corporate tax and amending the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Then several MPs reported to the Rules of Procedure and then we move on to the next point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14224	Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen of Serbia, this concludes the debate on several very important points that we have had today and yesterday to discuss in this high house. I think it should be mentioned that through the budget law, Serbia is showing progress again. We see that the country's external debt continues to decrease, today it is to 30% of gross domestic product, it will continue to fall in the years that are coming and that's good. This frees up additional space for the development of our economy and reducing budget expenditure, from public finances, for almost one per cent of gross domestic product, shows the way to the future, so there will be more room for economy and for citizens. We also see that with the amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation and the new, extremely strong, law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, we open up the possibility for more than four million of our citizens to participate in this key process. In the next three years (I would not go back to all the details) we will allow citizens to earn a profit that, I am deeply confident, will not be less than 1,000 euros per person. It is very important that in the next six months, from the moment you adopt this very important law, everyone who has the right to do so is recorded and that we thus provide for them the opportunity to engage in these key financial and economic changes. Since one of the conditions is to be included in the voter lists, that is, an additional incentive for citizens to participate fully in public life. It's an additional foundation of democracy in our society, regardless of who they vote for tomorrow. At the same time, through this law we have arranged and very closely deployed restructuring and preparation for the stock market and for the strategic partnership of six key companies in our country. Three are large -- NIS, EPS and Telekom Srbija; three are slightly smaller, not less important -- the Belgrade, JAT and Galenika Airport. In all these cases, we will have specific treatment, a strategy and, believe me, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do everything possible to ensure that if capital is opened, it will be as little as possible, but at the same time enough to ensure competitiveness at the international level for all these companies. Public enterprises are important because, unlike other companies, they have a chain effect on the competitiveness of the rest of the economy and, therefore, on the standard of our citizens. It is also a chance for them because, from the moment they receive multimillion-dollar action among citizens, it will mean greater discipline for them, greater demands by their shareholders, but at the same time, I am confident, and much more support for even bolder moves, that even after Telekom Srbija and they are going to conquer other markets in the region and beyond. I also see a large dose of continuity. Since the first draft of the budget system law, which has carried out a kind of revolution in the domain of our country's public finances, five years later we have a whole new text, which has taken over a good part of what was good, but at the same time corrected what could and should have been better. And most of all, in the budget system law, we see what progress our country has made. Far from everything being perfect, but also how well we can think about the possibility today, certainly not the obligation, to prepare a three-year budget. It will take some time to do so and of course it will always remain an opportunity for this home to remake things, to vote what is necessary, for public finances to fully monitor the circumstances of our country. In no way will it become some bureaucratic device that, regardless of the needs of citizens and businesses, will not be appropriate. But it's good to start thinking mid-term. And in this law you see the programming budget, we see the three-year budget, we see the medium-term public capital investment plan. It is a good thing that today is more than 1.3 billion euros in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia, in an account at the National Bank of Serbia. That money isn't any government's money. It's money, and the reserves we now have, especially for the launch of new capital investments. This is where we see the coherence. On the one hand, we have a law that regulates the award of free shares to our citizens and gives them three years to do their recapitalisation, to go out on the market and to find strategic partners. At the same time, through these changes and the additions of the Privatisation Act, we see what's well done, we have the financial effects that I've been talking about, that's that money, but at the same time we're moving on, we're preparing further campaigns, they're taking on the infrastructure. There's a lot of talk about it this time. Serbia, and I know that no one will complain about it, has the opportunity to plan for a little longer time for the first time in 15-20 years. I don't want to say here in any way that thanks to this or that government, this or that party, I don't want to go back to the 1990s, share the blame, share the credit. But the fact is that for the first time since the late '70s, our country has entered a period of time when it will be able to project its own development, that its citizens have a longer-term perspective, that a vast majority of them come into possession of valuable actions, that they can plan the household budget, see in the public finances of the medium-term plan, and that local self-governments, which have many words today, have the opportunity to plan their own expenditures. And especially, as was the case in the King, I'd like to say that after your intervention, I've asked around. A 800,000-euro donation, which will be the first phase, begins in January. Then there goes an additional 20m euros for five municipalities. I hope the King does it. Ma'am, you're absolutely right, there's a drinking water problem in the King. Unfortunately, that's not just the King's case. We have almost 50 municipalities, a third of our municipalities, where we cannot be satisfied with the quality of drinking water. But today Serbia has this capacity, it has this system and, more importantly, it forms again personnel, independent of their party membership, who will be able to plan at the local, provinceal, national level what will be the development of our country. We also have changes in tax laws. And there's the same coherence of this package that was proposed today. It is not pre-election, but it is certain that there is logic in what is proposed. For all those citizens who are now going to be on the stock market as shareholders, we have a 20% reduction in capital gains from 20% to 10% and what was very difficult for all investors, and that is the necessity to make a tax balance every day, this time, like anywhere in the world, it's done once a year to beat up losses and gains and end up paying taxes properly. Namely, something that's a net position. I would also like to say just a few words about a law that may have gone a little undetected today, which is this law that allows for the confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on European Aid. It is billions of euros for the period 2007-2011. When it comes to some kind of grant aid, in our country, I get it right now, and why, it asks the question -- and why are they so generous, what is their bill, did they commit us to something? They're not doing it because they love us, they're doing it because it's in their interest. It is in their interest for Serbia to be a stable, prosperous country, from which people will not go through illegal immigration, where there will be no organised crime, which will be open to infrastructure and, of course, a good and interesting market, as well as the whole region, for their businesses. For 60 years, the European Union, allocating funds to those countries whose destination is to join it one day, has managed significantly to improve the situation. Look at Portugal. For those who had a chance to see the country 25 years ago, today it is almost impossible to recognize the way both life and the standard of its citizens work. Closer to us - Greece, Hungary. And already look at the effects, directly and indirectly, that the European Union is approaching in Bulgaria and Romania. This year, Bulgaria will draw four billion euros in direct investment for the first time in its history and will have more than a billion euros annually because it is a member of this budget assistance. Is that conditioned by something related to Kosovo and Metohija? No! No! And the government of the Republic of Serbia, and no civil servant, will accept any trade in Kosovo for Europe. That's not what we're asked to do. The conclusions of the European Council, which is just finishing, are to welcome Serbia's progress and to discuss separately the problems that are being addressed in Kosovo and Metohija. In no way do these two questions relate. We will never accept such a trade and we will never accept that Europe is blackmailing us in any way at this point, it comes from conclusions, we recognise the great capacity of our country, and we are talking not only about signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which will give an additional perspective to our citizens, but also about our capacity to become a very fast candidate for entry into the European Union. This is not conditioned by Kosovo and Metohija. We'll never accept that. Our constitution, the resolutions of this assembly home, as well as the platform of our negotiating team are clear on this matter. I want to say at the same time that in this law, I don't think that's what we were talking about today, we're preparing for the next year to issue new travel documents. In September, this house passed the appropriate law. The Institute for the Making of Wallets and the MUP are preparing that, starting next spring, we get, for the first time in about 90 years, Serbian passports, according to European standards, with biometric protection, with what will allow us, as far as the end of next year, to propose to one regime that will be visa-free, that our citizens do not have to wait in front of consulates of various countries here in Belgrade, Nis or other cities of our country where there are consulates. I must say, in this tax law at the same time, we predict that obtaining a Serbian passport is not too much of a burden. It's been released for 10 years, and it's going to cost, in the country, 1,000 dinars. The news for the diaspora is, I want to point out here because I am one of those who returned from the diaspora, the 165 euros per person were really too much expenditure for their families, and this law allows that expenditure to be reduced to 25 euros. It is more than in Serbia, but it is normal, and it is acceptable for the budget of our people living in dispersion. In the end, I want to say that from this European help, and that was the question, well, that's all some foreign words -- transparency, IPA, OPA, we have various abbreviations here -- what does that mean for citizens? I'm going to give you just a few examples of already prepared projects that will start to apply when the National Assembly ratifys this agreement and when we finish working out the mechanisms for their establishment next year. One is support for local and regional development -- 40m euros. The reform of secondary and higher education -- elevenm euros. The Danube River Information System - elevenm euros, and that is something that will allow the Danube to become corridor 7 for the transfer of goods and people. Addressing refugees and internally displaced persons -- 10m euros. Emergency medical reform (we had kicks, there were problems, there are still) - 10m euros. Reconstruction of the "Nikola Tesla" power plant -- 12m euros. Support in preparing projects for everyone. I mean, since you asked a legitimate question -- and how can we in the King, how can we in Loznica, how can we in Nis, the Shop, the Plane, the Subotics get that money, how can we run our projects? – from the moment of ratification of this agreement, we will launch not only a major communication campaign, but we will create a network of institutions at the level of local self-government, local communities and NGOs who want to join this movement, so that all those who wish to do so can be able to prepare appropriate projects, of course, in line with the priorities defined in our partnership with the European Union. Therefore, I just want to say that today's debate, and yesterday's debate, this agenda, is full of great things for Serbia. I know it doesn't seem that way at the moment, but essentially every single one of these laws and proposals, I hope that all MP groups will support them because they're not ideologically colored, on the contrary, they're just the foundations and the possibilities for each of us to show their own talent, and in general our country to make rapid progress. I will not appeal to vote for this or that, but I hope that on Sundays we will also have a fair and democratic debate on the direction in which we want our country to move on. Presidential elections are very important. I want to say at the same time that this day and the quality of the debate had one sad moment. Suddenly, Mrs. Tanja Stankovic, an extremely high-quality economic journalist, passed away, worked in the "Today" list and reported for many years from this home. I think a lot of people here know her, and I want to say, I'm confident on behalf of everyone, I'm truly sorry for her family. She was 57 years old, left her child behind. I hope my exposure at this sad moment won't get any form of pathetic. About what I heard about myself today, believe me, if you have any doubt that I've done anything suspicious, I'm not a man hiding behind any immunity. Go ahead, file these criminal charges, investigate. I'm here. I'll never leave Serbia again. This is my country and I love it, I want to devote all my energy and knowledge that I have to make things better, but that decision will be on the citizens, of course. But if anyone suspects anything, I won't respond to these attacks, they don't belong in such an important home. If anyone has any doubts, let's settle it where that place is, in the authorities, in the prosecution, in the police and in the judiciary, there's no problem. This is my presentation I want to dedicate to the person who left too quickly - Tanja Stankovic. It was indeed the image of goodness, someone who had completely devoted himself to economic issues, was one of the country's most quality economic journalists, and made it much better for us all to understand what was actually going on in our country and to better explain those thorny times of this transition. May it be her eternal glory. Dear fellow MPs, I hope that through a further debate on amendments and these projects we will come, as far as possible, to consensus, and on January 20, let's all vote. It's not a secret that I'm going to vote for, which I think should be voted for, but I'm not going to say that about this pay phone. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14225	I thank Vice President Djelic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Djelic, I warned you not to do so – that you do not abuse the post of Deputy Prime Minister, that you do not hold the political tribune, that in such a way you do not address the MPs – because you are here to listen to criticism and to give reasoned answers. Your 17-minute address was a lot of floscules we'd heard so many times. You are therefore the regime that we have brought down from power on 28 December 2003, after your infamous rule and after the fact that your reforms, transitions, transparency, apropriety and all that you use in your laws as specifics governing our monetary fiscal policy – are a disaster for the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Djelic, that you are, by any chance, but you can never be, because here you are just a little bit of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Russian Federation, and that you advocate such "innovations" (and that's a foreign word), for such a radical legislative area as here, you would at least be warned by the President of the Russian Federation that you cannot do so. But I even think it's legal now, in fact, I'm sure, strictly defined, that you can't go there for any, absolutely none of the projects, many of which are here, as the generosity of the European Union that takes away Kosovo and Metohija, you've listed, to use the word euro instead of laundry. It's legally punishable there now, but what you know, you've come here from the time of Chubis and Jeljeljin, when you got the red stamp in the passport and the minors deported from the Russian Federation, come here to spill your mind and give some fantastic phases of the law and ideas, and the citizens have nothing to do with it. That you are now telling someone who has fallen from Mars, who does not live in Serbia, who does not come from the city where Mrs. Wesna, from the Kings, is me from Kragujevac, where the workers of the poles made you barely save your life. In one day, Mr. Djelic, you fired 15,000 people. What are you talking about? counterpart Stankovic later came to the Serbian parliament and is a complete opposition to SRS policy, perhaps at some point in favor of you, but no one can come from your so-called SRS policy. a democratic corps, whatever its name is, to say that you are the man who brought some quality changes. You can speak well, but all that goes in favor of you – and change the laws to go in favor of you, and glorify your function to go in favor of you, and the citizens have nothing to do with it. That you've held some stands now, tonight, in Kragujevac, King, Piroth, Vranja, Bora, and I don't know how you've been around, for all this time of your conversion, all these days, that you don't mention the problem of Bora and the Kraguje flag. Since it didn't occur to you that you weren't worried about the fact that the potential Russian partners, Mr. Deripaski, obviously because of such a way of negotiating, or putting on a public competition for RTB Bora, might be avoiding it. And who guarantees us that you have strategically defined yourself for those who want to preserve Serbia? And, I'm sorry, Mr. President, here, I'll finish, so you're not right at all, it's a direct blackmail from the European Union. They don't tell you to your face at these meetings you're talking about, these your help, your projects. But listen to some media, world stations. Here, since yesterday you have a statement from Jelko Kacin, who is a real scandal, which is in charge of Serbia and of following what you call integrations, who made it clear and loud yesterday: in Serbia there is a traumatic state, there is total chaos, Slovenia will, from the moment it starts, from January, to chair the Council of Europe, do everything possible for Kosovo and Metohija to gain independence. You do not worry about that fact, but it will unfortunately happen – the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija by those who give you projects and by those who dictate to you how laws are made in this country. Since you have, for this reason, come forward, I have closely followed you, abused the post of vice presidents to say that you will not say the name of the one you are going to vote for, but Serbia should go that way, I am confident that the Serbian citizens will choose the second time, to choose the path that Tomislav Nikolic and the Serbian Radical Party offer with all their heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14227	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law on the budgetary system, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Taxation of Business, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republics of Administrative Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Roads and a Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission of the European Communities on Cooperation Rules relating to financial assistance to the European Community to the Republic of Serbia in the context of implementing aid under the rules of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance. Before we conclude today, four people's messengers appeared in the Rules of Procedure, so let's take a turn. MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14228	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported in connection with the Magnohr in the King. Of course, Magnochrom is one of the king's biggest problems right now. It is certain that all citizens of the city of kings, workers and their families are most concerned. Yesterday, before the session of the local parliament began, we agreed to schedule a meeting for today. Today we have held that meeting and the agreement is that all MPs will be informed of what was at that meeting. Of course, all the MPs from the Kings here in Parliament have received that document. The Magnochroma question has to be resolved. I am sorry that the Deputy Prime Minister has now left, but he has just declared that he has already asked about the problems in the King. The central problem now is Magnochrom. Of course, there are other problems, but I don't want to talk about it this time because right now the biggest problem is the Magnochroma problem. Today, the president of the municipality sent three documents to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. That's what the Magnochroma workers were looking for, because they're in extreme pain, 2205 workers are on the verge of existence, and with them and their families because they live off that dinar. It's a big problem. The Privatisation Agency is due on December 17th to definitely declare "Magnophrom". It's a deadline. I will read an appeal from workers regarding this term: "In view of the extremely difficult consequences of the termination of the contract and further delaying the fulfilment of the contractual obligations, we urge the Agency to consider the demands of Magnochromian workers and to consider them as priority, and to take all the measures envisaged by law without delay and to prevent further catastrophic consequences of the non-fulfilment of this contract." I think it's a priority to resolve this issue. There can't be any delays. Magnochrom has been the pride of the Kings for many years, which we have admired not only in the borders of Serbia and Yugoslavia, but also in Europe and the world. Magnochrom was a recognizable name. No one could have mentioned the King without saying there was a Magnochrom. I think all state institutions need to process this problem urgently to solve. I don't think there's any dilemma about it. As all the council members of the Kingdom Assembly, the heads of the committee groups, took a clear position yesterday about Magnochroma, there is no division, there is no position and opposition, the problem of Magnochroma is the problem of all the citizens of the Kings, and that is why we are all here today, as MPs, in a unique way, informed, we all got this problem and together we have to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14229	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Ivan Jovanovic, then the MP Milena Stankovic, and, I hope, finally, the MP Vladan Batić. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14230	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. I'd just like to clarify the situation regarding the Magnochromian in the King. Yesterday there was a meeting of the heads of all committee groups and all three representative unions at Magnochroma and a unique conclusion was made that these requirements were being directed to the competent ministries and the privatisation agency. I note that the Democratic Party is an opposition party in the royal municipality. This way I would like to appeal to the Privatisation Agency that, since the contract is not respected until the end, therefore, the customer has failed to fulfil its obligations, and it is conditioned to do so by Monday, December 17th, cancel this contract because the workers in Magnochroma are really in a difficult situation. Magnochrom was privatized last year. Since then, production has not been initiated, the terms of the contract have not been met, nothing has been invested, so I really appeal. This is the most important request of the Privatisation Agency - to cancel this contract and find a new strategic partner for the Magnochrom in the King. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14231	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Milena Stankovic also reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14232	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Dulic, I answered the word because, behold, we welcomed the end of our working day, and that Minister Djelic did not give us the answers to the questions he was obliged to do, according to the Rules of Procedure, to give us. Under Article 198, MPs have the right to ask a question, and according to Article 200, he is obliged to answer the question immediately if it concerns some questions that he can answer (this were questions concerning his life, his work that he is dealing with next to the one he is dealing with in the government, so we assume that it is something he has insight into and what he could immediately give an answer to) or within eight days if it is something he cannot immediately give an answer to. Mr. Djelic hasn't answered the question all day. He welcomed the end of the day by giving a second fiery political speech today. What particularly revolted me and made me come down from the club (there I was doing something) and reacts that he openly promoted his candidate from here, called for his vote. I mean, and that's where I have to agree with Vice President Jovanovic, that it's an abuse of this pay phone. It's not something he can and should be doing in this place. Mr. Djelic took all day to come up with an answer to Mr. Batic's question and to refer him to the competent institutions. He could have said that this morning, when Mr. Batic talked about it. Unfortunately, he sat here, we warned him that he should answer, he looked at something, he wrote messages, looked at the ground, and thus left the impression of a man who was very insecure about himself. He referred us to the institutions and, of course, we addressed the institutions. Unfortunately, everything that we're witnessing, which is why we started to deal with politics and set up our political party, is our impression that we really can't trust the institutions in this country, because we think the same people behind Mr. Djelic are behind these institutions. I think it's a shame that Mr. Djelic came out, which he didn't wait to hear from us, and it's even more embarrassing that he didn't give an answer to the question, the most embarrassing thing about it is that in such a funny way he promoted his candidate, and I think Mr. Dulic, as someone who runs the session, was supposed to react to it. Mr Djelic, when he is in parliament, has the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure which we all respect and all of us MPs here and, when we ask him something, to answer that question, even if it was a personal question, to come out and say - it is a personal question, not to be silent and waiting for the end of the day and then, when no one is there, to give some unmistakable answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14233	I thank the MP Milena Stankovic. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it hadn't been for that kind of reaction from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djelic, I wouldn't have answered. As DHSS MP, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister exactly about the topic of the agenda, which is amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation, on how privatisation is carried out in Serbia, on the necessity of insight, on fair and fair privatisation, on transparency, because Mr Djelic kept mentioning European standards, etc. I asked Mr. Djelic a question without having anything personal against him and I will not address the judicial authorities. I didn't say Mr. Djelic did any crime. But he is obliged by article 200 to answer the questions asked by the MPs. Here's what I asked him and what the connection is. I don't even mind that he abused the post of Deputy Prime Minister, and today he's been doing politics and talking for half an hour. When you have no arguments, you keep talking, repeating, continuing, etc. His business partner, a man named Sinisa Stojicic, the brother of late General Badže Stojicic, is today charged by the Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime as one of the leaders of a group of tobacco mafia. I have nothing to do with it, a man I don't even know, and it doesn't matter to me either – whether he's guilty or not, it will prove itself. But the company Trebich from Sokobanja was privatized, bankrupt and sold for 83 million, documents are in the Trade Court in Zajecar. In that part that belonged to Mr. Stojicic, as co-owner with 48%, I asked that, was Mr. Bozidar Djelic's company called "House of Europe Invest b.v." from Vasenara in the Netherlands. Therefore, if Mr Djelic is already involved in politics and should he be the promoter of the Boris Tadic campaign, Mr Dulic, please appeal, from my well-intentioned initiatives, that he does not participate in the campaign because it will be a great minus for Mr Tadic. To move on with these previous thoughts. When Mr Djelic loudly announced that he would be a candidate for the prime minister of Serbia and, believing in his honesty and good intentions, the LDP parliamentary group and I, as DHSS MP, agreed to support their candidacy, he, in order to remove this from his biography, transferred ownership to the company's "The Galileo Limited" from the Virgin Islands. If the road to European standards is across the Virgin Islands, then I don't mind Mr Djelic participating in political campaigns, but it will be bad. I'll ask him this every time he's in this room. Every one of us is wrong in life. He could've walked out and said, "Yes, I was friends with that man, it was a mistake. Or, "I am not, you are lying to the Messenger Batic, you are telling the truth; these are deceptions, deceptions, and lies. I'd like to apologize. But there are documents about this at the Business Registers Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-14-0.u14235	I thank you all. I'll see you Monday, 10:00. Have a nice weekend. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Vladan Vukicevic. We're continuing our work. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the National Envoy TOMISLAV NIKOLIC, the President of the MEP OF THE SPRAL PARTY OF THE SERBAL PARTNER, received a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to talk about this agenda point? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has made the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party Party, has adopted a proposal to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who has been tabled by the President of the Democratic Party Group of the People's Parliament of Nada Kolundzija. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to talk about this agenda point? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. Since no one wants a word on this agenda, I am concluding a unique search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the National Envoy Susan Grubjesic, the President of the G17 PLUS MEP, received a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the chairman of the G17 Group plus the MP Susana Grubjesic. I'm opening a single search on the motion for a decision. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one wants to talk about this item of the agenda, I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision. The National Assembly will declare this draft decision in the voting day. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. Mr. Žodinu, SA PRATIĆI DOKOM (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Veroljub Arsić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasić, Momir Marković, Milovan Radovanovic, Nebojša Stefanović, Nemiša Šarović, Zdravko Topalović, Radiša Ilic, Vjerica Radeta, Dejan Mirović, Vlado Sekulić, Jovan Damjanović, Jadranka Žuković, Petar Jožić, Slavko Miša Delić, Zvrša Mihajlović, Slavić Topalović, Oto Kišmarović, Žrboljuvić Živić Živović, Zorko Živnović, Tomiković, Tomislav Žuvinović, Dragan Marković, Dragan Marković, Predrag Marković, Dr. You've received amendments submitted by the government. You have received the Government's opinion and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government has not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26. Article 1 Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
