ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1719	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning. I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 162 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is determined that 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Riza Halimi, Andrea Galgo-Ferenci, Rajko Đurić, Balint Pastor, Nenad Bogdanović, Borka Vukic, Nenad Prokić, Suzanne Grubjesic, Jovan Nešović, Gordana Rajkov and Miroslav Pejica. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda as soon as possible, which, in its request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, established 108 MPs. You were presented the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 22 and 23 May 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 22 and 23 May 2007. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1720	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, before we declare the proposed agenda, respecting all the reasons for the urgency of this procedure, on behalf of the LDP, I request an explanation of the procedure requiring Parliament to violate the Constitution and the deadlines set by the Constitutional Law. You know that we ran an anti-referendum campaign and that we were opponents of the Constitution to which we are today. We are interested in the view of the parliamentary majority of this constitution. Does he commit her or not? Does the parliamentary majority, which is behind the proposed agenda, oblige the Constitutional Law or not? We believe that it is important to get an answer to these questions, because it is very clear by the Constitutional Law that the newly elected composition of the Assembly during the first session, immediately after the government's election, is in line with the constitutional law governing the protection of citizens and the exercise of citizens' rights to information, the selection of citizens' protectors, the authority responsible for the monitoring and exercise of citizens' rights to information, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the authorities of the state audit institution. The first regular session is over. We voted yesterday and thus put an end to the Second Session of the First Regular Session. In the draft agenda, we do not see the points to be found, given the criteria set out in the Constitutional Law, and it is clear that this is the first extraordinary session and therefore there has obviously been a violation of the Constitutional Law and of the member of the Constitutional Law which Parliament has committed itself to the election and constitution of the institutions we have spoken about. So, before we move on to the adoption of the agenda, I only ask for an explanation from the President of Parliament, whether or not the Constitution applies to this assembly, since we will then discuss some very important amendments and additions to the law, which are required by the Assembly to curtail lawlessness. We believe that this is a logical requirement for the Assembly if the previous Assembly refuses to comply with the constitutional law and to break the deadlines set by this Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1721	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have had a little bit more patience for the President of the National Assembly to open this session, but I now point to a grave violation of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, Article 5, which absolutely clearly regulates the work of the National Assembly after the government's election. It reads, I will read to you only the first position – the newly elected composition of the National Assembly during the first session, after the government's election, will comply with the Constitution of the laws governing the protection of citizens and the exercise of citizens' rights to inform and elect citizens' protectors, the authority responsible for monitoring and exercising citizens' right to know, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the authorities of the state audit institution. It's about article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which discusses the meetings of the National Assembly and which is very clear, is in attitude 1 - The National Assembly meets in two regular meetings annually, the first regular session begins on the first working day of March, and the second regular session of the first working day in October. A regular session may not take longer than 90 days, and the National Assembly shall meet in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the Members of Parliament or at the request of the Government, with an advanced agenda. So, you have fulfilled only one provision, that an extraordinary session may be called upon at least a third of the MPs, but that much more important, that the first session after the government's election has a constitutional or constitutional law established on the agenda or at least part of the agenda, you have not met. It can't begin today's session, the first session after the government's election, this is the first session, the first extraordinary session, so it seems to me, and you've called it in motion, so it can't start if in the agenda they're not the points set out by the Constitutional Law to implement the Constitution. It's impossible to hold today's session, Mr. President, I assume you have some kind of advisors in your party, at least if the Assembly hasn't given you good advice for this time since you've been running the National Assembly sessions. I just hope you're not advised by those who are candidates for high office in the IRS and elsewhere, because it's a sign of the quality of the party that put you in that position. So don't make us step on the Constitution. We cannot participate in this, because with much more attention we expect the fulfilment of other obligations under the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, for example, the obligation to call elections for the President of the Republic within 60 days of the day of the adoption of certain laws governing elections or certain areas, here I mean the military, defence, foreign affairs, some of the obligations concerning the calling of elections for local self-government. If we allow you today to break the Constitutional Law, we will have no excuse when we ask for another violation of the Constitutional Law to be absolutely in the position of not participating in the session. Please, the session can't be continued until we have an explanation, until the National Assembly has spoken of it. You can do most of it, but know, here, ever since 2001 we've been warning you that most of it isn't everything, you're still doing everything most of it and you're still getting worse. I don't care if you're getting worse, Serbia's getting worse if it can be done most of the time. So please, reason, call the science legal, take a break, there's the secretary of legislation, who participated in the constitution and constitutional law, we voted for constitutional law, with the exception of G17 plus. Make a decision that you will then explain to the public of Serbia, which really expects once to be formed a government and assembly that will not violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1723	Thank you. In accordance with Article 4. The Law on the Protector of Citizens – the Protector of Citizens is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. A candidate for the protection of citizens can propose to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, any parliamentary group in the National Assembly. On the basis of the proposal from the parliamentary groups, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sets out a proposal for the selection of citizens' protectors by majority vote of the total number of board members, with the Committee able to decide to hold a session in which all candidates will be able to make their views known on the role and way of achieving the functions of citizens' protectors. In view of this prescribed procedure for the election of citizens' protectors, conditions have not yet been met for his election, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not yet submitted a proposal for the protection of citizens, i.e. parliamentary groups in the National Assembly have not proposed candidates or candidates for this post. In accordance with Article 5. The constitutional law we were obliged to bring this law into line with the Constitution during the first session, after the government's election, and the conditions were not met. Hope for Kolundji, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1724	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, of course there was no violation of the Constitution and of course there was no violation of the Constitutional Law. So the question is, what kind of words does someone tie themselves up to claim something? In progress, not at the first session, during the session after the government's election. We have just come out of the legal deadline of the first regular session, today we have started the first session of the extraordinary session and what the Constitutional Law obliges us, according to such an insufficiently precise formulation that this assembly adopted unanimously, we are still in session for the time being. So there's no possibility that we broke neither the Constitution nor the Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1725	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1726	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the Constitution is like for you to interpret it. Mrs. Kolundjia, please read article 9. The constitutional law, which concerns the election, or appointment of the Constitutional Court, will be implemented by the end of the first regular session of the National Assembly at the latest. If you do it for the next two days, it's okay. But this can't be on the agenda today. You know why? For the simple reason that Article 2. The Law amending and supplementing the Government Act provides for the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. If the Government abolishes the Act of the Assembly of the Municipality, the City, the province, as provided for by this law, then the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court shall take place. We don't have a Constitutional Court. So we have to choose him first so that it can come to the agenda at all to vote such a law. Advise the lawyers, there are, though, the bad ones, in your MP group, but they may advise you on something.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1727	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1728	Mr. President, when you were elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I think we have warned you all here that the National Assembly is not a apparatus for the exercise of the power of the Republic of Serbia, but that it is from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that it is the authority in Serbia. The National Assembly chose the government of the Republic of Serbia. And that's why I really think it's high time to break the practice that lasts for years, which is that the sessions are scheduled for day by day, to constantly violate business provisions, which you can, of course, justify the particular reasons for putting on the agenda some of the points, but it's impossible for each of these points of vital national and state interest to be placed on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is your obligation to preserve the dignity of the Assembly and the MPs, which means that you decide on the date of the session, does not decide on the Prime Minister, any minister or secretary of the secretariat, as it is called, for the legislation, is that correct, Mr Balinovac? Director, I apologize, Director. Well, in our day you've been assistant minister, now you've made some progress. I am glad that the SPS and JUL have their representatives in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We support him. Anyway, he's not the only one. In this government that was elected, when I mentioned that we had someone of our own, everyone just couldn't help but tell who it was. I said one, but there's time, and we'll get to it. I answered, among other things, and to warn you of the following. Mr. Dulic, the president of your parliamentary group, Dusan Petrovic, asked at the session, the first constitutional one, that the session could not continue until the team's report on Kosovo and Metohija has been discussed. What about that request? You're in power now, you asked for it. You have a majority in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is asking for negotiations to continue. Based on what concept, on what policy, on what congregation declarations or resolution? I know that very well, but you seem to be in your coalition having to clear it up with each other, because you think otherwise. We from the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, together with the Democratic Party of Serbia, asked not to discuss it that day, and the Democratic Party together with the LDP, Vladan Batic and others asked for it to be put on the agenda. So why don't you put it on the agenda? What time did the government of the Republic of Serbia promise to submit a report to the co-ordination team, or the negotiating team? Mr. President, what Mr. Batic said earlier, there is a second position on this article. It is therefore true that the election must be held by the end of the first regular session, i.e. the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, but followed by the second position that says - if the deadline for the election expires, means, if they have not elected or appointed by yesterday, the election of the Constitutional Court judges from the list of candidates of the President of the Republic and the list of candidates of the National Assembly, and the appointment from the joint list of the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors will be carried out within 30 days of the date of the first election of Judges of the Supreme Cassation Court. So the constitutional deadlines are very clear. Just because you were late to form the government, which you formed in five to 12, doesn't mean you can go on funding like you're funding this country. You also asked for an urgent change of budget system law on the agenda. You said that the Assembly was illegally funded, that all of Serbia was illegally funded. Why didn't you do it right away in the first session? But no, now that you've come to power, anything is possible. What about JUL, you take a good look. JUL is no longer your concern, but it seems that their frames are yours. Each of you has your own JUL, except you don't realize they're in your ranks, but that's good. As we have fallen for it, you will go even faster. I wanted to elaborate a little bit more on this, but I'm going to wait for the end, because there are always some topics coming up at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I can't believe that so many urgent topics are exactly the ones you've proposed. I thought all parliamentary groups agreed because you asked for it, that the issue was number one Kosovo and Metohija. Where's the subject now? I wonder how Ceda Jovanovic and Vladan Batic can even sit here without first discussing the Kosovo and Metohija issue, because they asked for it first. This seems to be the most important topic in Serbia, and it was immediately accepted by the Democratic Party, only so that Toma Nikolic would not then be elected. Well, you chose him, so you voted for it with enthusiasm, shouting that these other traitors were, so you replaced him, or he resigned himself to free you from the shame of voting for his resolution now, five days after the election. As if you think it was easy for us to say that we would vote for Dragan the Martian, so we voted, but we did not deny it after a few days. If Kosovo and Metohija are the subject, why not put it on the agenda? Have you requested a report from the negotiating team? Where's that report? Who's making that report? So please, President of the Assembly, do what your parliamentary group asked for, a report for Kosovo and Metohija. Today is over, this is now an extraordinary session and you're right, it's been 90 days, but that doesn't mean the Constitutional Law doesn't have to be respected. The constitutional law must be respected, it's not a matter of Parliament, it's a matter of government, and since it's an extraordinary session you've all agreed here, your joint representative is Hope Kolundji, all of you in power. So now, I don't know, the DSS will always agree with what the DS is saying, but it's a little bit illogical. But, well, maybe Mr. Balinovac will explain it on behalf of all parties. We'll listen to it, see if it's exactly in line with our parliamentary group. Mr. President, I am warning you more that by your conduct you must build the authority of this institution over the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the government of Serbia did not elect this National Assembly, but this assembly chose that government and you can remove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1729	Thank you very much. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's what a division of coalitions looks like. The National Assembly belongs to the DS and now the DS schedules and defends what is indefensible. I remember the lady who is now president of the DS parliamentary group as an active MP for the first time, Vuk Obradovic, and Neboja Covic. You weren't at Vuk Obradovic's? Okay, I'm sorry, but it's no shame, it's more embarrassing to be at Covic's place than Obradovic's. But watch this, ma'am, it was at a time when the old Constitution was in force and you can't decide to call this session to defend the interpretation of the old constitution. Indeed, the old Constitution distinguished two regular and two extraordinary sessions, each extraordinary session held sessions. The new Constitution, and you've seen it, perhaps even in the assembly of the President of the Assembly, knows only the meeting. We have a meeting today, we don't have the first session of this session, the second, the third, the fourth, we only have a session, and we have a session as part of the Rules of Procedure by which this meeting is held. So today we have our first meeting after the government's election, with an advanced agenda, and there are no points required by the Constitutional Law to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it was absolutely unconstitutionally called this first extraordinary session. Tomorrow can be the second, the day after the day after the two extraordinary sessions, we can have 70, 80 extraordinary sessions until the second regular starts, but now we are in the first extraordinary session for which the Constitutional Law requires a strictly prescribed agenda. There's no deviation from that. At the same time, we are in the first session after the government's election, and we had to make a decision here on the election of five Constitutional Court judges and a decision on 10 candidates for the Constitutional Court judges, which we were to forward to the President of the Republic to appoint five judges, with two-thirds of the court to establish and start working, but at the same time there must be a law on the Constitutional Court, a law on proceedings before the Constitutional Court, etc. It all had to be over by this agenda. This agenda is acceptable for the next session, but for the first meeting after the government's election it is impossible to defend that you did not put on the agenda points required by the Constitutional Law to implement the Constitution. So you don't want to implement the Constitution, that's what hurts the most. The constitution must be implemented in the National Assembly, otherwise forget that you can punish anyone else by law. Then tell the judges, you can no longer punish anyone by law, we as the National Assembly do not respect the Constitution. When we don't respect the Constitution, we can't ask citizens to obey the laws that we make. Any citizen can say afterwards - and whoever brought this law to me, those who don't respect the Constitution, I won't respect it. Then there's anarchy and then there's even a riot, who knows what kind of clashes on the streets. Of course, I don't want to, nor do I like to participate in them. So please follow the constitutional law and Serbia will be a stable, peaceful and democratic country. Don't trample on the constitutional rights of citizens because then their reaction, whatever it is, is completely justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1731	Thank you very much. National MP Vladan Batic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1732	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for a replica after Mr. Dacic mentioned me on several occasions. To clarify once again what I said before, I appeal to you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, you are the most responsible to prevent the violation of the Constitution, even this constitution voted for by hand and foot for several days, somewhere still voted for the constitution, as I have heard. You lied to even the people who were in jail, so when they rebelled afterwards and asked you to keep your promise, then you made them beat each other, massacred in prisons, and you brought that constitution. If I were being maligned, and I was being insolent, I'd say prison constitution, but what's there? Mr Dacic mentioned Article 9(2). This is even more complicated, since the High Council of the Judiciary has not been established, the State Major Prosecutors has not been established, the Supreme Court of Cassation has not been formed. But even when we ignore all this, there are no Constitutional Court judges selected from the list of the Presidents of the Republic and the National Assembly, no Constitutional Court. No country can be a state unless there is a Constitutional Court, if there is no state prosecutor, if there is a parliament where its president is elected every Wednesday and Friday. You should take care of that. I'm not going to deal with who's the legislator's representative for these laws, and I'm not interested in Mr. Balinovac being a member of JUL, first of the DSS, then of JUL, and again of the DSS, that's what ping-pong is, but that doesn't matter. Mr Dacic mentioned that within the LDP parliamentary group, we insisted that the second item of the agenda be completed, that there be a report on the agenda of the state negotiating team, which was a commitment after the conclusion of the National Assembly, see this, Mr President. Make sure the decisions of the National Assembly are respected. We don't have it until today. And you know why we don't? Well, that contest in patriotism would fall into the water, you'd see what supervised autonomy means, and you'd see that it's nothing more than Ahtisaari's plan, so there's no State Negotiation Team report at the National Assembly. I urge you to withdraw this from the agenda for one more reason. The constitutional law, in Article 15, stipulates that all other laws, but also those which are proposed, will be brought into line with the Constitution by 31 December 2008. If you don't know what the date is today, we can tell you that too. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1733	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Jovanovic, and according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dacic, I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic, we go in turn. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1734	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the aim of our objection is not to create chaos in the Assembly. We cannot just agree to this principle, with which we are today faced by the government's majority, which in fact represents this initiative as an initiative, with a message that the only important existence for Serbia is the government's existence and functioning of the government. Clearly, the state of the country is responsible. That someone has a name and a last name, has a function. It's Vojislav Kostunica, your prime minister. He is not a person who can lead Serbia from the cabinet of the Prime Minister today in the way Serbia must be led to be a democratic, orderly, European country. Among other things, this shows the proposed agenda behind which the parliamentary majority, the government's majority, stood on the government's initiative. It's clear, Mrs. Kolundjia, what it says in the Constitutional Law. Don't try to defend what's indefensible. This is our attempt to help you. Explain to the people who are sitting in the government that we will not agree to sessions where the laws need to be explained to us by Julovac, and that we are discussing these laws by forgetting what he is and who he is, that we will not agree to meetings of parliament where there are no other government representatives, prime ministers, vice presidents. Parliament voted on Kosovo, adopted the resolution. From the Resolution, they made commitments to the government, to the negotiating team. Those obligations are not respected. Most in parliament have rejected our proposal to discuss the report. Meanwhile, the government has launched a new initiative. The initiative was addressed to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon, we were informed that he had received the initiative. More will find out what Kostunica thinks of Kosovo than the parliament who chose it. That's not good either. Our proposal to you is to establish a violation of the Constitutional Law, to propose sanctions to whoever is in charge of such a thing and to change this agenda in accordance with the obligations arising from the Constitutional Law. We will do everything, as we did during the government's election, to address these problems which were inherited as soon as possible because of the three-month chaos that Vojislav Kostunica left behind. But we can't play Semantics. The first session is over, the first extraordinary session has begun. During the first session, we had several sessions, constitutive, and then the first one we chose a new president, and then we had a second session, where we discussed amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's all that's left of us. Everyone knows what this is about. Let's make this clear in such a way that we will make it very clear that we disagree with the initiatives that the government is trying to establish complete control over the country, while destroying those institutions that are obliged to protect and create. It is the institution of the Constitutional Court, the State Audit Committee, governor of the NB, the Ombudsman, the Information Commissioner, very important issues, and therefore take account of the arguments, because the arguments you have offered are unacceptable. As well as yours, Mr. President, which concerns the obligations of the Constitutional Affairs Committee. We've established that committee. A vote was held yesterday. The committee may meet and fulfil its obligation. I don't think any of us, and especially I, as a member of that committee, pose an obstacle to meeting those obligations arising from the Constitutional Law. All I'm asking is that you take care of the reasons, I'm not saying you're responsible, but you called this session, the one responsible doesn't sit here. He's supposed to get a lesson once in parliament, the honeymoon's over. It lasted since March 2004, and that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1735	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ivica Dacic and Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1736	First, I would like to protest what Cedomir Jovanovic was saying by attacking Zoran Balinovac for once belonging to our government. I think it's absolutely unacceptable. He did his job well at the time of our government and I think such a concept of attack because someone once belonged to someone might already be a thing of the past. If you want to make a lustration, then you have to luxuriate half of your own here. I know all of you, some of you have taught me Communism, except they've taught children badly. Anyway, Balinovac was the assistant minister of our time. He was a member of the Constitutional Commission on behalf of the DSS at the time of your DOS authority after October 5th. The way it worked for you back then, and now it's no good for you. I mentioned it because I'm glad, and I'm proud that one of our men, the truth of JUL, is not from the SPS, in a position this high. I would like to ask and congratulate, Mr Markicevic has come out, 14 NS MPs have not signed this request. Do you disagree with this? I would also like to congratulate Mica Albianic, he did not sign this request. What, maybe he wasn't there? Well done, Mico. I would also like to congratulate Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic, and he did not sign this request. So, do you even agree with this agenda? As far as we're concerned, do as you please. You can vote all sorts of things, but I think it's a matter of all political parties whether this parliament will take a defensive stance on the attempts of all other state institutions to minimise the role of parliament. All power comes from not the Parliament, but the people. The people chose this parliament. If you allow someone from the government to manage you at the beginning of your term of office, when you will schedule sessions, how you will interpret them, you will surely cooperate with the Government, but no President of Parliament has been successful unless he was on the side of parliament but on the side of the executive authority. That's why our warning only applies to that. I'm glad that, among you out of 130, everything 108 signed this request, which is obvious to say that there are those who may be thinking differently. I'm glad it's the President of Parliament, but I'm not glad he's standing for what he didn't sign right now. As for Albianic, he is not alone, but Nadica Momirov did not sign, Ivan Zivadinovic, but they are not from Belgrade, you may not have been able to find them, but Miloljub Albianic was on TV here in Belgrade last night. I really think that Mica realized that this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a violation of the Constitutional Law. I'm glad he's in such a high position, and he respects the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1737	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. You know you're required to give your word as soon as someone logs in to speak by the Rules of Procedure. But you allow the replicas here and only afterwards do you give the word to those who have asked to plead for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you of the first session we held, where Parliament Speaker Tomislav Nikolic was to be elected. At the time, the present majority was on different sides. Not only the DS MPs, but other parties, have been trying all along to prove that, primarily, one item, namely the unfinished second item of the agenda, a team negotiating in Vienna concerning Kosovo and Metohija, was to be considered. You remember what you said about each other on that occasion, especially about the DSS MPs, and what DSS MPs told you from the DSS. The essence of all these discussions was that the constitution of the Assembly and the election of the president of the assembly were necessary because there is the possibility of issuing a state by Serbian President Boris Tadic. As a crown proof, you have instructed Mr. Leon Koin's actions, who resigned as the country's president's advisor. There was no dilemma about it. Leon Cohen made it clear, you had opportunities for all, both you and the citizens of Serbia, to see and find out why Leon Cohen resigned. Because he was not informed as a adviser to the president of the Republic at all about the negotiations held by the president of Serbia and his advisers with some of the other countries regarding Kosovo and Metohija. The remarks focused on current Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. This is a subject, but how does a man explain it to you? It seems to me, Mr. Chairman, that you've been going out and distracting yourself that it was necessary to put the negotiation team's report on the agenda. You remember, too, when we were choosing the government, that night, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica sat down, I reminded him of all of it and asked him what he thought Leon Cohen would do the next day when that new government of yours was put together. I personally distracted him that he knew Leon Koin for a long time, that he knew he was an honorable and moral man, and he did what every honorable and moral man did -- he resigned as a member of the negotiating team, and he evened you out of the DSS with those of the DS, and put you in the same basket, into traitors. Because Leon Cohen did not resign for any other reason, only because he suspected or was sure that President Boris Tadic, with his advisers, was betraying Serbia's interests. If he did it for the first time because of Boris Tadic... You're nervous, please, I'll finish. If he resigned for these reasons for the first time, do not doubt that he resigned for the same reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1739	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1740	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the shortest I want to answer, not because Mr. Dacic made an unconscious mistake, not because of my need to correct it, but because of our constituents. Mr Balinovac, as a prominent member of the Yugoslav Left, was never a representative of DOS in the Constitutional Commission, there was also the President of the Constitutional Commission, Minister of Justice in the Government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic, Mr Batic, Mr Balinovac was an adviser, and the representatives of the DOS in the Constitutional Commission were people who worked on a completely different constitution than those we received. I do not think it would be good to turn this into a debate on the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, but to have to return to what is the essence of our problem, which is ignoring Parliament's obligation to act in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution and Parliament's unpreparedness to establish those institutions that are necessary for the normal functioning of the state, i.e. the concentration of the government in the hands of the irresponsible Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, which we are most strongly opposed and we will vote against that agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1741	I thank you, Mr Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. After that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will discuss the violation of the Constitution, Article 69 of Article 4, which the government has violated in just 15 days of its power. What I'm about to talk about may not be as important for all of Serbia as my predecessors have said, but for 200,000 people in Serbia it's very important. What happened? It's May 30th, and in May, the wartime disabled, the families of fallen fighters, didn't get any receipts. It wouldn't be a big deal if 62,000 people didn't just get that receipt in May, not to repeat one phenomenon repeated over the last 4-5 years, that this population every year, instead of 12 months' incomes, gets 11, or last year's nine. This is unacceptable, and if the Constitution, Article 69, prescribes special protection for these people, I think it is unacceptable for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to abolish one reception of these people in May and bring them into a difficult situation of life, which is unworthy of these people. No matter what you think of them and their involvement in the war, and the political character of the wars that were waged, these people are war veterans. These people deserve the full special care of this country and deserve to be respected and respected by this country, not because of what they did, but because the Constitution and the law prescribes them that protection. My dear friends, I must tell you that in the last 7-8 years, this population has forgiven several times the previous governments for certain debts they have made against them for contempt of the law, and we have had to protest on the streets multiple times to force the state to comply with the laws in this area. I have to tell you, just 15 days after the formation of this government seems to be the only way we can protect our rights, it's a street protest, which will happen soon. Mr. President, if you remember what I told you the night you were elected, I think you are the president of not only all MPs, but the president of all citizens of this Serbia, and I ask you to invite, in accordance with your powers, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, a representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and a representative of the Treasury, to correct this as soon as possible, this injustice against these people, and I ask you to schedule, in accordance with these powers, a meeting of representatives of this population and representatives of the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1743	I thank you, Mr Vasilevich. Of course, this will be referred as a parliamentary question to the Secretary of Staff. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1744	Dear colleagues, to inform you that one of the reasons why a group of MPs put the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law is that by temporary financing, extended beyond the legal deadline, it has been impossible to do so, and the adoption of this law will certainly be removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1745	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Vjerica Radeta, here you are, and according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1746	Ladies and gentlemen, a member of 104 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and Article 104 in the first position, says - the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. If we point to the violation of the Constitution for an hour, and it is absolutely undeniable, all the MPs who came out here and drew attention to the President of Parliament and the ruling majority that in the harshest possible way of breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, were right, and then MPs of the parliamentary majority had no way to defend undefense, had no way to convince anyone in Serbia that what they are doing today is in accordance with the Constitution and then an hour should think about how they would now explain why they had to break the Constitution because they broke it for half a year because of this temporary financing. But, of course, we'll talk about it when it's on the agenda. Now, that's why, literally, the president of the DS parliamentary group has admitted here: yes, it is true, we are breaking the Constitution, but, you know, we have to no longer extend the temporary funding. Yes, that's exactly what's said, but that's supposed to be said at the beginning, so that we know why you think you can break the Constitution, and we're telling you there's not a single reason that allows you to break the Constitution. When the Constitution was passed, your party at least formally supported and participated in the Constitution campaign. This is where the representatives of the parties who have been against this constitution since the beginning, but they normally accept the Constitution, there is what it is. Until change is respected, if someone in particular has to respect it, then it is the National Assembly, then it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and then it is the President of Parliament. It is true, Mr Balinovac, that you were sent here from the government of the Republic of Serbia because Kostunica knew that we would draw attention to the violation of the Constitution. Then he sent you to speak to the MPs as a representative of the promoter. I know you from the time we were both deputy ministers of justice at the time of Mirko Marjanovic's rule and there was no violation of the law or the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1747	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bajatovic, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Krasic. Mr. Bayatovic, please approach the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1748	I'd get to the pay phone, but I can't make it out of the radicals. They've got a roadblock. Dear fellow Members, I would like to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, in at least two aspects. It is said, therefore, of the dignity of the congregation. First, I would like to ask my colleague Kulungji and the other representatives of the government's majority not to replace the government's representatives who didn't come to this session, explaining to us what the government was thinking. It's the government's job, not the work of your parliamentary group, and don't justify it. On the other hand, if the ruling majority here has admitted to knowingly violating the constitutional law provisions simply because it is ordered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For my God, we cannot help but realize that there is no simple partocracy in Serbia, that is, the rule of the summit of our parties, which decides what we MPs are going to vote here, so it is also put in the Constitution. Then at least we MPs, especially me from the opposition, should take care of it. So it is true that the government's influence on the work of parliament is, above all, too large in the form of a ruling majority. Therefore, gentlemen of the opposition MPs, if we want to obstruct Parliament's work, which is legitimate, then we shouldn't do it the way it is now, we're going out, so we're going to harass both the president and the ruling majority, and the citizens of Serbia. We should do the next thing, so that we can all sign a note to Mr. President of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that, if they continue to act violently by holding extraordinary sessions and thus passing laws, in violation of the Constitution and the provisions of the Constitutional Law, as well as some other laws, then our obstruction should be complete. We should be obstructing until they start acting in accordance with the law and the Constitution that they brought themselves. I will stand for this proposal in my parliamentary group, and I propose it to all other parliamentary groups, primarily from the opposition. If we want obstructions, then obstructions to the end, not half the deal with the government. And the authorities warn you, gentlemen, that you cannot joke with the opposition in this parliament and with the role of parliament in Serbia's political life. On the other hand, Mr Batic, if Mr Batic is here at all, I am very grateful for your remarks and for the findings you have sent to the ruling majority, as well as for us from the opposition. But if you were standing up to work properly, a lot of these things wouldn't just look like this. You're responsible for the state of justice today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1749	Thank you very much. Mr. Krasic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Batic replica. Since the People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, has warned me that I must seek a member of the Rules of Procedure whose violation you seek, I ask you to quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1750	Mr. President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure in those provisions that regulate the way you call the National Assembly session. Now, in order for you to not be bothered by asking which member of the Rules of Procedure may be, I must draw your attention that, in addition to that member of the Rules of Procedure, you must bear in mind the provisions of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What exactly is this about? It is that the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was subsequently passed by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, which precisely prescribed dynamics, given the importance of the areas and issues to be done in both the deadlines and what should be done. It is thus said that in the first session, following the Serbian government's election, it is clear which regulations must be passed. Why? Because their hierarchical power is much greater than regulations, say, about hunting. That is why the protection of citizens is a priority, which is why the Constitutional Court is a priority and that is why other legal holders are also a priority, because they, that is, those laws and these elections represent the essence of the state, without it there is no state body. This is practically an extended constitution of state authorities in line with the new Constitution. Anyone who doesn't respect that, he doesn't respect the hierarchy and primates that exist in regulation. So I'm telling you, I can't explicitly appeal to the Rules of Procedure, but I am calling for something that has far greater legal power, which is constitutional law, which is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you received a draft agenda, with the signatures of MPs proposing an extraordinary session, you had to return this to them and say, dear Members of Parliament, you must read Article 5, Article 6. Constitutional law, because you didn't have it in mind. We have to do it first, so when we do it, then we go after something else that needs to be regulated. So there are absolutely no conditions for holding this session today according to this agenda as they have suggested. Now let's solve one problem about the session. Constitutional law does not distinguish between an extraordinary and regular session, it speaks of the number of meetings, the order of the session. The first session, the first session after the government's election, has an exact agenda. If you, Mr. President, do not comply with the Constitutional Law, I must draw your attention that you can freely bind the cat to the tail of all those beautiful promises that you made in someone's speech before you entered a serious debate as a candidate. You've accomplished something amazing. In a few days of the session, you've broken all your promises. I know because of these promises these people on the Democratic side voted for you. They trusted you, and of course I don't trust the Democratic Party. Of course, anyone can be a member of any party. Mr. Balinovac was, but I'm not looking with no respect for a political party. I warn you, those of you who look down on the fact that some party member is, say it in time, so that I can reassess myself and treat the same amount of indignity as I do with the Liberal Party's membership, the Democratic Party. I loathe, imagine, someone is a member of the Democratic Party. Is that a normal brain that can understand? Don't insult anyone in the National Assembly. I've only set this as an example of how it might look bad. It's a bad example, you see how on a bad case you immediately feel hurt and wake up right away. So, with respect and respect for Mr. Balinovac, regardless of being a member of JUL, it is one legal political party that participated in political life. You can't talk about respecting democracy without treating a political party like that. If you want to establish that as a standard, be assured, I am an unmatched master. With which disrespect I can speak of your belongings, you can only guess what it will look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1751	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of 166 and 167 have been violated. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Mr. Balinovac has had all kinds of experience and experiences in his rich political career, from transfer, today mentioned, from JUL to DSS, through establishing a special function for him, the director, imagine, the Republic Secretariat for legislation, beyond the possibility, Mr. Balinovac, that at the deaf hour of the night, somewhere between three and five in the morning, you explain the laws, that you crawl here in front of the National Assembly's pay phone, through the situation that you deliver laws, which were not even in line with the previous constitution, which we warned you when there was the Law on civil servants, directors and your innovations, and are now infilting you into something like, for God's great legal expert, which can't be found on the agenda. I am speaking to Mrs Kolundzija, as she is an authorised representative for these first three agenda points, i.e. for the entire agenda. Mrs. Kolundjia, it's probably the problem with the way you read something that's written in a Cyrillic letter. So, you just said such nonsense that the council couldn't exist, because you were completely unprepared for the session, which could not be called in accordance with Article 166 and Article 167. Rules of Procedure. This extraordinary session, with a agenda like this, could have been called somewhere there in July or already at the end of June, when we held a debate on all the points of the agenda set out in Article 5. Laws to enforce the Constitution. You've said something that's really amazing to defend your position as you called this session. Either you're convinced, ma'am, of that or no one has explained it to you. You just said, and Mr. Nikolic is like a constitutional writer and a man whose credit was mostly due to this constitution, explained that this is not about a regular or extraordinary session, but about a session at all. You, under Article 166 and Article 167, were unable to put this on the agenda, you tried to explain it to us in the sense that we entered that session, or that your possible vote, and the violation of the Constitution, of this agenda, began the session. It's not about that at all, it's about the fact that you just called for Article 166, and he says, Mrs. Kolundjia, on the predetermined agenda. You can only decide in the course of the session, as an authorised representative of the proposings of this agenda, whether the members of the committee under point five will be considered before the law on the budgetary system or before these three points of the agenda. You can only change the order of the dots, and you told us at the beginning, an hour and a while ago, you probably figured out something or you tried, or you read the Law to implement the Constitution better, so you said -- so what, we start with that session and during that session. No, this doesn't last forever, but just until the end of the point that you're proposing to us, and you've suggested five points of the agenda, and then it's over. So that's why you admitted when you first came out to replicate Mr. Nikolic that you were wrong or you got involved yourself or this expert Ristic, a failed author, he didn't even get to the preamble, he didn't explain it to you. You can't, ma'am, you've read. Now you have to read well and I'll help you, so he says that this newly elected National Assembly will be in the course of the first session after the government's election. It's not a regular or extraordinary session, which, according to your script, is happening today against the constitution, or should happen. If you read the Constitution properly, then you know what's next. There, the conditions aren't met, which we don't have a proposal. What do we care? Why didn't you listen, when you were all so smart in February, Tomislav Nikolic, because he wrote two letters to Boris Tadic, as a responsible man, the one standing, as well as a huge number of citizens, behind this constitution. He knew how big the job was until the end of the regular session, and that the Constitutional Court was established, and that these laws were passed, and you didn't want to do your job, but by the time you got together, until you made that tycoon government, and now you're in tea. That's not our problem. This cannot be found on the agenda under Articles 166 and 167. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1753	Replica Mr. Batic, then replica Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1754	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would once again appeal to the President of the National Assembly not to accept knowingly breaking the Constitution, or constitutional law. It's your sacred obligation to respect the Constitution, no matter how much it's brought in, we have an opinion on it, and it doesn't matter now. We have a constitution that everyone has to respect, and the first one who has to respect the Constitution is the president of the National Assembly. If you allow the terror of the majority over the minority and if you allow the violation of the Constitution again, under the rule of some general state or national interests, all together, both as a state and as a society, we cannot get far. Mr. President, there is no need here for any legal knowledge to interpret this norm, which is clear to laymen, ordinary citizens. There's no Semantic interpretation, meaning, conceptually, neither the target nor, what experts would say, telelogically, is sufficiently linguistic, grammatical enough to read what had to be done during the first regular session. It's not done. Since this has not been done, you have the only option left to try for these two days to maybe do these things, you have a parliamentary majority, let the National Assembly choose the judges of the Constitutional Court, so that the matter can be moved from the dead spot. If you accept that you are knowingly violating the Constitution, you are by definition the most responsible. To correct Mr. Dacic, since I was President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Balinovac was not a member of the Constitutional Commission, was a consultant to Mr. Jocic, and he needed a consultant, since the study of rights for him lasted until 32 or 33 years, and as chairman of the Constitutional Commission I would never allow Mr. Balinovac to be a member of the Constitutional Commission. To correct Mrs Natasha Jovanovic, excuse me, it was not one political transfer from Mr Balinovac. He was the first member of the DSS, then moved to JUL, was adviser to Arandjel Markicevic, so Deputy Assistant and Deputy Dragoljub Jankovic, so when the coalition fell from power, when the DSS came to power, he returned to the DSS. One more detail, Mrs. Kolundjia, I address you as an authorised representative of the proposings, you cannot say that the necessity of a decision on temporary financing imposes an obligation for this sitting. Why? You can't do one violation of the right to correct another by breaking the law, so you're wrongly correcting it because it doesn't exist. So this can't be on the agenda today. Yeah, but then the story of democracy doesn't make any sense. This is a violation of the Constitution and this is the terror of the majority over the minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1755	Thank you very much, Mr. Batic, I need to inform you, Article 106. The constitution says - the first regular session begins on the first working day of March, and the second regular session begins on the first working day of October. A regular session cannot last longer than 90 days. The 90th day expired at midnight tonight, and that's why we're in an emergency session today. Okay, thank you very much. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1756	Mr. President, Article 104(1) has been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The dignity of the National Assembly is trampled whenever the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not respected. It is clear that democracy is the rule of majority, but not of any majority, the rule of majority that rules according to the law. In all civilized and legal countries, and we want Serbia to be this way, the deadlines are binding, above all, on the competent state authorities. The deadline laid down in the constitutional law which requires that, following the government's election, access to the tasks referred to in Article 5(1), which means compliance with the Constitution of the law governing the protection of citizens and the exercise of citizens' rights to information, select the citizens' protectors, the authority responsible for monitoring the exercise of the right of citizens to know, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the authorities of the state audit institution. These are the jobs that must be done before all the changes you have proposed today, so before the amending of the Budgetary System Act, and before the amendments to the Law on State Administration and before the amendment of the Law on State Employees. This is not the first time governments have failed to comply with the deadlines themselves since 2000. No one forced them to. Several times already you are prolonging the beginning of the work of appeals courts, prolonging the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, prolonging the beginning of the work of the Administrative Court, the Law on Infringements, etc. Don't tell us any more European and democratic standards here. It is clear that you are not interested in the legality and respect of the rights of citizens. The only standard you stick to is the Joseph Broz standard that you don't need to stick to the law as a drunk float.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1757	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bosko Ristić and Dr. Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1758	I'm reporting for replica law since my name is mentioned in one statement. Miss Natasa Jovanovic mentioned my name. I'm just saying, there's been a rumor here during the exposure that the new Constitution doesn't know the difference between the session and the session. That's not true. Right in front of article 4, the title stands - the first session of the newly elected National Assembly. Thus, the title itself shows that the Constitution, i.e. the Constitutional Law, knows the difference between the session and the session. Otherwise, here we heard different interpretations of article 5 about the work of the National Assembly after the government's election. By logical interpretation, which someone wants to challenge, but the logic is improbable, this is where the first meeting is mentioned after the government's election, in the first position of Article 5. In the second position of Article 5, a second meeting is mentioned after the government's election. So if you have another one, it's logical that you have first after the government's election. Otherwise, I would remind all MPs in the National Assembly and the citizens that the Constitution serves to establish a legal system, to create a basis for the construction of institutions, and I would like to remind everyone that we are in a transitional period, at a time of harmonisation of the legal system since the entry into force of the new Constitution. At the same time as the deadlines prescribed by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, we apply the parallel and Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which is necessary to comply with the new Constitution. However, there is no possible existence of legal gaps, so that all laws are applied until they are put out of force. Not only are those parts of the law, i.e. those provisions that are directly contrary to the Constitution, and if there is any doubt of the disagreement of a general act with the Constitution, it shall be applied until it is put out of force. A concrete decision by the Constitutional Court removes the consequences of disagreement in the application of certain general legal acts with the Constitution and results in retroactivity. We are not in such a situation, but surely we are in a position to build our institutions and it is necessary, both by the Constitution and by law, that this session be held as scheduled. I would just like to remind myself of another fact, which is that Article 5 of this constitutional law prescribes the selection of some public office holders, but according to previously adopted laws. It was not possible for the Government, which was chosen only the other day, to adopt this assembly's draft laws here, to establish procedures and establish bodies that would propose public functions holders in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. Therefore, Mr. President, you have, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, scheduled this session and I expect that all well-intentioned ones will accept to act on your invitation to hold this extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1759	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Paja Momčiov, Mr Nebojsa Stefanović and Mr Krasic according to the Businessman Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1760	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, as the debate continues to continue, we continue to have more and more violations of the Rules of Procedure. Since you insist always on formal quotations and guidance that members are injured, I will start from Article 166, 167, 104. Let me remind you of Article 27, where the field of your work is defined and where it is clearly said what you must absolutely adhere to. He says he's doing the work provided for by the Constitution. So, the Constitution is a law that governs you in your work, not to mention one next attitude, to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly, which may well exceed what is happening to us here today. We are talking today about having obstructions by the opposition. Please, let's do something to keep these obstructions from happening. You object from our position to do something that is wrong, because we advocate respect for law and constitutionality. On last night's TV show, we heard from one of your mentors that they no longer share a democratic and non-democratic bloc in Serbia and that you have a division of nationalists and pro-European-oriented parties. It's not possible to say that the better term is patriotic and so on. pro-European parties. When we talk about this division, there is one other, one high-ranking British government official said that you in Serbia today have a choice between nationalists and corrupt politicians. It's actually today's real division in Serbia. Therefore, you who speak of democracy violate the Constitution, violate the laws, and then honor us that we should behave in accordance with these violations that you are carrying out here. Of course, Mr Batic said that this is the tyranny of the majority, that you want to establish the tyranny of the majority and that it is your democracy. You don't respect the Constitution, you don't respect the laws. The president of the parliamentary group comes out to you first and says it's not a violation of the constitution, and then comes out behind it and says it is a violation, but we have strong reasons for that. What's that? Such unprincipledness, such ignorance of everything. As the end of my presentation approaches, I will respect the time, respecting your function as president, to remind you that you have laid down the Code of Medical Ethics. You're supposed to be a moral man. Now as a fellow humanist, I ask you as a doctor, can you continue to lead the session this way, to turn the obvious truth here into a lie and immoral political or cannot. However, some of your party, high-ranking officials, said that there is no morale in politics and that there is no political morality. We, the MPs of the SRS, think he has morals and he has to be morals, but if we even ignore it, he has to be law-abiding. Please, identify yourselves as a man and as a humanist for this, because when you came to the post of president, you said that you would raise the dignity of this house, and with this leadership and disrespect for constitutionality and constitutional law, you would destroy the dignity of this house. What you may not be, you're young, and you're experienced enough yet, you have no expertise, it's not your fault, but it's your commanders' fault. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1761	Thank you, buddy. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 104(1) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. We have in place the fact that the ruling majority is persistently trying to break the Constitution and the constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution, regardless of everything my colleagues have said and to clearly define everything that has been broken. They repeat, because of the public, very simple and very simple members who are being violated. Infringement of Article 5. The Law implementing the Constitution, where the newly elected composition of the National Assembly will be elected during the first session by citizens to exercise their rights, the governor of the National Bank, the authorities of the State Auditing Institution, but also by Article 9 which speaks of the Constitutional Court, the election of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Casation Court, the State Council, the Prosecutor's Office, etc. The fact is that the congregation, the ruling majority, who chose the government, did so recently. But who's to blame for that? Is that why Serbian citizens, who chose this National Assembly in January, who are participating together with the President of the Republic in the election of Constitutional Court judges? Why does Serbia not have a Constitutional Court today? To whom does the state of lawlessness suit? Is it normal for us now in this House to talk and argue whether we will abide by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law or we will follow the standards that this law has predicted? It's simply impossible to break the Constitution and talk about morality or honor the opposition or I don't know who because these deadlines are broken. The ruling majority, the Government, the President of the Republic, are responsible for the non-implementation of the Constitution, the non-implementation of the Constitutional Law and the current attempt to violate the Constitution, regardless of all the statements of my predecessors who have clearly proved it, regardless of what it says in the Constitution, as clearly as in the Constitutional Law. And yet we're left with no answer, we're coming to the fact that we're going to see a real one here, as my predecessors have said, terror. I hope there is no one in Serbia who is looking forward to the Constitutional Court, which is looking forward to that there are no other authorities that control the government, because it will be the introduction to a real dictatorship that I think is being prepared in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1763	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1764	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. I'd like to speak to you, Mr. Ristic, since I've listened very carefully. I would ask you, and I know that you have these abilities, so that you do not interpret our remarks as unfavorable, and that is what you have done. We gave you the opportunity to show Vojislav Kostunica that he cannot, among other things, with you and your party, do what he did before the government was formed after the formation of the government. Just because the government was unable to comply with the constitutional law, in your interpretation, it means nothing to us as MPs. Let the Prime Minister show up and let him tell us. Like when the government formed, we were asked not to co-operate, because it couldn't be, understanding was required and we accepted it. In the interest of this country and of each of us, as representatives of the citizens who voted for us, the establishment of those institutions that we are talking about today. We will discuss the government law on the agenda, although it is time to amend the law at the end of 2008, and we will not discuss the election of the Ombudsman, the Information Commissioner, governor of the National Bank, and in this way we will exclude in our society democratic instruments that can control the dangerous policy of Vojislav Kostunica. Whether Serbia needs an information trustee, from whom we can get an answer to the question of what lies in the concession contract signed by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, leaving the highway of Subotica - Pozega to the concessionaire from Austria and Spain. It's a secret. That's why he's serving the trustee for information. Can we get an answer to the question of where the National Bank of Serbia foreign reserve is located? And it's a secret. We as a parliament have the right to know and have the right to know our citizens. Can we get a protector of human rights in all cases where the individual human rights of citizens of this country are at stake? We are full of working tables of correspondence between citizens and citizens, in which some kind of assistance and protection from parliament is sought. Our initiative is not aimed at creating unnecessary tensions in parliament. Our initiative is extremely well-intentioned and it is, above all, addressed to Kostunica's cabinet, which must understand that it will not be able to work in this assembly of the Republic of Parliament what it did in the previous one. That's why there's nothing unwitting about it. If one of us expects understanding, let him appear as a representative of the Government and say so, and let him offer guarantees of compliance with the Constitutional Law in some new deadlines, because sanctions do not exist, because those who wrote the Constitution and the law did not want to establish the sanctions they would be exposed to today, because they knew they would not respect him. As in some other cases, extremely well-intentioned, absolute support for every good initiative. We showed that understanding yesterday, voting for a law that is compromising for Serbia as a European state, but it was necessary, although it was due to one's unhappiness, inadequacy, sloppyness. We have put too much power in the hands of the government and the judiciary, which is under the control of the same government. It was our gesture of understanding and supporting the difficult situation in which the Justice Minister from the DS found himself and don't interpret our initiatives as unwitting, because they are not such, they are extremely well-intentioned, but there are limits in everything, even in this relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1765	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Zoran Krasic and MP Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1766	Mr. President, I appeal to Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. I don't think you've even been able to apply this member of the Rules of Procedure because you have no knowledge of certain things from a close and distant past. Mr. Ristic explained, he used to know how well to explain it, but he hasn't been able to explain it for ten years. You see, Mr. Ristic, Article 5. The constitutional law says, firstly, what must be at the first session, and secondly, it says what must be at the second session. The second session cannot have a agenda unless the first session is completed, with an exhausted agenda. It's not hard to understand. You got it. It's easy to understand. He's got a problem. Mr. Ristic, I must commend him here, he was in 1995, while Vojislav Seselj was in prison, defending representatives of the SRS who were persecuted for glued posters against Milet Ilic, the regime, was on the team, and the procedure was over. You could also defend these people who have glued the posters of Ratko Mladic, now it's even better because no one should be punished for it, given that the law is almost nonexistent, but good. Mr. Ristic can do it, but all it takes is effort. Since becoming an active member of the DS, he no longer interprets regulations under the Vienna Convention on Interpreting. Now there is a very problematic - logical interpretation, with very frequent attacks of legal error. So the first session has to end, to exhaust the agenda, to pass the laws, not to exhaust the agenda, but to pass those regulations. When necessary, then a government is created, where coalition capacity is manifested. So that's the thing. The other thing, Mr. President, is I'm looking at these acts that are being seduced. You see, government proposals are dated 20. 5, but there's one with 18. 5, and the act that 108 MPs are looking for is also May 20th. What does this conclude? It is concluded from this that the other MPs did not even receive the proposal for a bill submitted by the Government, that this exclusive right was the only one of these 108. So obviously it's a new coalition capacity, where a group of 108 MPs said -- no problem, Mr. Kostunica, what you need us to do, no problem is our signatures, etc. Just for the public to fix one hard slip. In your proposed agenda, there is no budget law, Mrs. Hope, but the law on the budget system. The budget system law and the budget law are two different rules. In the budget system law, there are no provisions on how much compensation there will be for people with disabilities. It's a budget law, and it's not on the agenda yet. Don't dissuade the public. These aren't tiny technical mistakes. These are the picanteries of the great masters of media cuisine, which are to be created in public by a single picture. A big picture is currently being created. All calls to the National Assembly. It's been her fault for years for everything and everything, and this government should be in the ladodo. He'll be in the thick air now because the democratic bloc is complete. To know one more thing, a little bit of logic. It is not the opposite of patriotism, Euro-Atlantic integration. Conversely, patriotism is a betrayal, but what is contrary to Euro-Atlantic integration is non-euro-Atlantic integration. Not from one manipulation to another. Otherwise, patriotism comes from the words of patriots - to love the state of their fathers. It's the most noble thing there is, remember. And this, Euro-Atlantic integration, can be interpreted as anyone will, but always wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1767	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Amjad Migati.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1768	Reporting under Article 88(2). Mr. President, you put that law on the agenda. So I would like to ask you a practical question - how can Article 6(2) apply to that law, because it is contrary to Article 6. Constitutional law. How could that be on the agenda? It is that this DOS guy is constantly salting our minds, insulting our intelligence, that we're radically ignorant, primitive, but really it's one thing that can't go so clearly in a rough way. One more little thing that needs a position to know. We're not that unintelligent that we can let you explain your inexplicable explanation. Consider the many things that you have completed in those courses, which you consider to be the greatest democratic fluid. There are people who know a lot more than you know those courses and something they forgot, you didn't know. So slowly with that attack explanation of the inexplicable. Come on, please, Mr. President, explain to us how it could have been on the agenda when it's the opposite of the Constitution and we don't apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1769	Thank you. Mr. Batic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1770	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are still denied the answer to the question why the laws to be agreed on on the agenda are being laid down, under the provisions of the Constitutional Law, until 31 December 2008. The second question, why on the agenda of the first session were not the laws that, again under Article 5. Constitutional law, are they supposed to be? You've completely reversed the order of moves. What's taking so long? Why does he want to debate and decide on a proposal to amend and supplement these four laws? What's the main motive? Is it that only the Government in this country, that it teaches the acts of all authorities of local self-government, and there is no protection because there is no Constitutional Court, is it possible to derail the possibility that 20 MPs, as far as the provisions of the current Government Act are concerned, may seek, or suggest, the resolution of the Government or individual ministers? Here, our parliamentary group will do it immediately at one of the next sessions. Obviously, there is a fear of the truth they would say, and I'm surprised that Mr. Bosko Ristic tried to explain inexplicably. He actually defined himself as some new calculation of time before and after the government. You know, before and after Christ, this is before and after the government. Then the second session would be called first, because first it is after the government's constitution. It can't be, the constitutional law is very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1771	Thank you. National MP Nikola Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1772	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, therefore, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It is clear that the constitution is being violated here, but what do you expect from the government of Vojislav Kostunica, a government that is made up of stakes and ropes? What do you expect from Vojislav Kostunica who swore his allegiance to the Constitution, legalism and laws? Let's remember that he was saying at the beginning that his co-operation with The Hague was the last hole in the play, and it turned out later that it was his new government's priority. The term of office of the current government also began with a shameful parade in which citizens were harassed, and reportedly it was an attempt to arrest Ratko Mladic. The government immediately demonstrated its readiness to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. If you know each other in the morning, it looks like Serbia's writing black. As we've heard before, it's dark the densest before dawn, it's time to finally drop masks in Serbia, and it's good for citizens to see who he is, and it's time for freedom to finally come to Serbia and for the Serbian Radical Party to come, the Serbian Radical Party, which is the only one in a decent way representing Serbian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1773	Thank you. At the meeting of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which was convened at the request of 108 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the first extraordinary session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1774	Ladies and gentlemen, I went out to advertise article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before that, Mr. Dulic, I'd like to draw your attention to article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 10 states that in Serbia, the Serbian language is an official language and a Cyrillic letter. OK, it's not Serbian. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is speak only Serbian and respect article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges, Mr Dulic, to oblige you as President, of course, to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, in paragraph 2, that the MP is obliged to say which member of the Rules of Procedure he is referring to, to oblige the MP to speak for three minutes after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. All of these were respected by the messengers of the people. But, Mr. Dulic, a member of the 100th commits you as well. Article 100(3) says, "The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards." You, Mr. Dulic, sit there, listen, there may have been a dozen injuries to the Rules of Procedure advertised, perhaps more. You have not honored any of the People's MPs to comment, according to article 3, that is to say, to explain why you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now I ask you to explain to us who ordered you to violate the Rules of Procedure, whether it's just a consequence of your ignorance, because the other night you said you weren't a lawyer but a doctor. If you can't do this, go nicely to the doctor's office, I don't doubt your expertise as a doctor, but your expertise to lead this assembly and how I doubt it. So, you have to tell us if you don't know, so you're breaking the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, whether Tadic talked you into it, whether Kostunica talked you into it, whether you agreed together that you didn't care about both the Constitution and the law, that you were demeaning the National Assembly, that you were demeaning the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Dulic, you can't behave like that. In order not to report back, I tell you in advance that I will not be satisfied with your answer, neither I nor any MP of the SRS, and I ask, on behalf of each MP individually, that they have given me this authority, or if you want everyone can come out again for a pay phone to tell you, that in the day of the vote, the National Assembly declares every violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was advertised today by the MPs of the SRS. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1775	Thank you very much. I accept your remark that I used the foreign word, I won't do it anymore, all right. Okay instead of OK. As for the explanation, I gave one explanation. I have scheduled an extraordinary session in accordance with the request of 108 MPs, and I have received your request to define the National Assembly on the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote, which will certainly be done. I only ask the professional service to be put in the voting day to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure of all MPs from the SRS parliamentary group. Thank you. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Civil Service Act, which was submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposals for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia committee, which they submitted: -- the parliamentary group "Liberal Democratic Party," the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I'm taking a two-minute break. [[After break – 12,02]] I ask the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After break – 12/07]] Since we don't have a voting quorum, we continue the session according to the established agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate is in principle for the parliamentary groups for five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – one hour, 16 seconds, 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes, 24 seconds; the G17 plus – 22 minutes, 48 seconds; the SPS parliamentary group – 19 minutes, 12 seconds; the Liberal Democratic Party group – 13 minutes, 12 seconds; the minority parliamentary group - the Alliance of the Vojvodina Hungarians - the List for Sandzak - the Roma group of Serbia - the coalition of Albanians Presevska – valleys seven minutes, 12 seconds; the Vojvodjan group - LSV, SVM - six minutes and MPs who do not belong to a single group of five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We have been informed that the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party is for this item of the agenda, Ms Verica Radeta. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Mr. Zoran Balinovac, Director of the Republic Secretariat of the Legislatives, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1777	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have this grateful duty to brief you on the law on amendments to the Government Act and to try to convince you that there are rational reasons to vote for the bill. The basic reason why this law is proposed is to bring the Government Act in line with the new Constitution and the new constitutional system. The truth of the will, the new Constitution of Serbia, the Mitrovica Constitution, did not bring major changes to the government's position, nor did it bring about the government and the National Assembly. So, if you can say so, the work relating to the alignment of the Government Act with the new Constitution was something easier. I'll talk only briefly about the most important solutions. The constitution of Serbia regulated some institutes that had not been governed by the previous constitution, where there was constitutional void, and for the validity of the 1990 Constitution, it simply had to be legal interpretations, and the interpretations to then be incorporated into the law. The current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly regulates some government powers, the first of which concerns powers towards local self-government authorities, powers towards autonomous provinces, institutes such as non-voting trust in the government, etc. Since the Constitution regulates this matter, it was our job to adapt it and transpose it into the Government Act. The first major change is, in my personal belief, that the Constitution consistently expresses the principle of parliamentaryism when it says that the government is the one who determines and leads the politics of the Republic of Serbia. Simply, for the policy it has established and for the policy run by the Government, it corresponds to the National Assembly. In this context, the relevant Member of the Government Act has also been amended. In addition, the new constitution has given the government the authority to suspend the enforcement of acts, so-called. A unit of local self-government, municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, if it considers some of them not to agree with the Constitution and the law and to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. This government authority, quite new, is regulated in the bill, which amends the current Article 6. The Government Act and harmonizes it to be fully accurate with Article 192. The Constitution of Serbia. Also, the government's non-voting institute of confidence is now foreseen in the new constitution as an explicit reason for the government's end of office. The government can question its trust in the National Assembly. In that case, there is a vote of confidence in the government. This is about an institute that is completely contrary to the government's vote of no confidence, since the initiative is a proposal on the side of the government. Parliamentary systems consider the government's vote of confidence institute, as one means of pressure from the government in the assembly, that the assembly declares whether the government enjoys or continues to enjoy its support. Under the new constitution, the government can propose to vote on the government's trust, the National Assembly votes on it at the next session or, if the government proposes during a session that is already under way, at the session itself. In case the government doesn't have a vote of confidence, the government ends its term of office. This led the new Constitution to solve the problem created by the previous Constitution, which stated that the government could raise the question of its trust to the Assembly, but it was not explicitly provided for sanctions in case the Government was not voted in confidence. Now it's quite clear. To a government that is not voted upon, the government itself puts its trust before the Assembly and does not have that trust voted, it falls, then ends its mandate and it is a completely new legal situation relating to the government and the government's relationship with the National Assembly, which has therefore earned to be governed by the bill. The government was not voted in confidence when less than 126 MPs voted against the government, regardless of how those MPs who did not vote for confidence voted, did not vote at all, whether they were abstentions etc. Finally, there is another thing that is more important, the Law on Government was written before the Law on State Administration and before the Law on Civil Servants. Hence, the current Government Act widely uses the term of officials, who in the meantime are dispersed, broken, consensated and reduced. We now, in the midst of officials in the authorities of the state administration in the ministries and special organisations and services of the government, have only two types of officials: these are the State Secretary and Secretary-General of the Government. I understand by the officials those who bind their equal status to politics, mandate and the duration of government. Those whose essence is in a particular position regarding the government's political and programming principles, that is also why, as a rule, their mandate always ceases when the government's mandate ceases. Since, in the meantime, the term of officials has been constrained, that many who have been officials today are no longer, they are civil servants in position, which is the matter of the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, it is also proposed to amend a provision of the law, which states that the Government cannot appoint officials. The government which has suspended its mandate cannot appoint officials and the government to whom the mandate has ceased cannot represent civil servants in office. Finally, the new Constitution has been declared so-called. Leges imperfectae, or a member of the 85th former Constitution, who authorised the President of the Republic to ask the Government for opinions and opinions on certain issues, but did not further regulate the relations between the Government and the President of the Republic. So in the middle, there was a provision without sanctions that created or could potentially create a problem in application. Since such a provision no longer knows that relations between the President of the Republic and the Government are largely reduced to an emergency state, namely the state of emergency and the state of war, the law leaves out a provision that has developed a former member of the 85th former Constitution. Finally, there has been a change in the concept of state of emergency under our constitution. Under the new constitution, the state of emergency is no longer declared by the President of the Republic, nor by V.D. The President of the Republic, as we have seen in practice, has already been declared by the National Assembly. In the event that the National Assembly is unable to meet, the state of emergency is declared by common decision, agreement of its will, three presidents -- the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly. A similar situation applies to the state of war. What is important for the matter I am talking about is that for these reasons, we have left out those provisions concerning government and president of the Republic's co-operation in the event of a declaration of state of emergency, because, according to the previous Constitution, the Government has proposed to the President of the Republic to introduce an emergency situation and the Government has proposed the measures to be taken by the President of the Republic in order for the state to recover and return to the regular state as soon as possible. So, and that provision is left out of the new Government Act, it is fully in line with the new Constitution. This begins with institutions in the Republic of Serbia aligning themselves with a new constitutional order, in order to make it very clear that institutions such as units of local self-government, public authorities, etc., which, under certain conditions, under the current Government Act, are subject to certain supervisory powers of the government, for which there is no longer any constitutional basis. It is not only in the middle of the law governing the government, in the middle there is a law that, due to the reduced powers of the government arising from the new constitution, in some ways increases the free area of action of citizens, businesses, local self-government units and all those with public authority. That's it. If necessary, I'm willing to provide further explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1778	Thank you, Mr. Balinovac. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1779	Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. If necessary, I will quote - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the duties of the MP and has the right to request a notice and explanation from the president of the National Assembly and the chairman of the Committee, etc. I wanted to get back to you before the debate on this agenda began, but in a strange way, you started a session, or a debate on these points, so I didn't get here. What is important for the LDP parliamentary group is to clarify the role of proposing representative Zoran Balinovac in Serbia's recent short political history. We think it's important for all MPs to know. There were words here, before we just started discussing it, but we don't think it's properly presented. Mr. Zoran Balinovac was once a member of the DSS, and then left the party and became a member of JUL to be elected Assistant Minister of Justice Dragoljub Jankovic. And that's what it was about, but that's not the scariest thing. The worst part is that he was then in charge of implementing the Information Law as an assistant minister. Very successfully, I agree, he showed great enthusiasm. Stories say he even visited the court's colleges, reminded judges of those things and those media that need to be investigated, and encouraged them to complete the convictions as soon as possible. Unfortunately, that's not what bothers us the most either. The thing that bothers the most is that Mr. Zoran Balinovac was one of the creators of the terrorism laws. I'll remind you, it was such a terrible law, that even the government of the Socialists, the JUL and the radicals didn't adopt it. Under the law, which was proposed in May 2000, which was primarily aimed at dealing with political insinuators, even life imprisonment for those who oppose Slobodan Milosevic's regime was foreseen. The law referred to members of the Resistance Movement, opposition representatives and representatives of NGOs. That law never passed the government, but there was a lot of talk about it. I'm sure you all remember that. Then, Mr. Balinovac returned to the DSS through the party Vojislav Kostunica, and that is what is expected for us and we have no problem. Mr. Vladan Batic spoke about his attempt to appoint him to the Constitutional Commission, which was formed in 2003, but since the commission has never functioned, he was appointed director of the Secretariat for Law in the past government. So this is the second term, if I'm not mistaken, where is it, since these are the points of the agenda, for example. A very well-known assessment that the Interim Financing Regulation, which replaced the Budgetary System Act, is constitutional. That interpretation was just given by Mr. Balinovac's Secretariat. Since we expected nothing else from the DSS because it has announced continuity with the regime of Slobodan Milosevic or at least in some parts of it since the beginning of 2001 or 2002. What surprises us, Mr. Balinovac, was once again appointed director of the Serbian Government's Legislative Secretariat. The Democratic Party in the government has a majority. The members of that government are also people from G17 plus. I'm asking you, did you know these parts from the biography, we didn't need a lot of time to find him... (President: Mr. Andric, time is up. All right, I'll finish. If you knew what it was that made you put this man in the post of Director of the Legislative Secretariat and that the government today appointed him as the representative of the legislator of these laws and that you expect us not to talk about it. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1780	Mr Andric, I cannot answer the political qualifications, perhaps Mr Balinovac can do it himself, and I can only answer that according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Balinovac has the right to explain certain laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 104, and regarding the presentation of the previous MP, particularly to the presentation of facts relating to the attempt to pass a law on terrorism. It is true that in 2000, by the SPS and the JUL, I suppose that Mr Balinovac then played a significant role in proposing, namely the creation of this law on terrorism, but to remind you once again that, thanks to the SRS, this law was not passed because we did not agree to such a law being passed, because we recognized the means that would allow ruling parties, regardless of what we were in power then, to deal with our political opponents. The problem is that today and without law, you deal with your political opponents and this best shows this example with these young men who have glued these posters called "Bulevar Ratko Mladic". The fact that you're here presenting facts relating to Mr Balinovec, I'm simply amazed. I can't understand you. You were all in one flock called DOS. You then accepted Mr. Balinec, he was one significant lever in the then DOS and the establishment of a revolutionary government. I would just like to remind you of the book of Ms. Milena Arežina, president of the then Chamber of Commerce, which described very precisely the role of Mr. Balinovac, Kljajevic, Šiptar, Kum, who, as a crisis staff, had entered the Economic Court and changed the management of the Court of Commerce in a violent way. Mr. Balinovac didn't bother you at all, he was a revolutionary, and today you honor Mr. Balinovac for flying from one party to another. He only remains in one single party, a flyover party aimed only at being in power. And there's no problem with them. The problem is with you who serve them, only at one point it suits you, and at another point it doesn't suit you. It's a problem you'll never be able to solve, because your understanding of politics is winning power for personal gain, not ideas, not program, not ideology. That's your biggest problem, not Mr. Balinovac. They were before Mr. Balinite, and there will be more of them, and there will be those to whom authority will be first, as will you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1782	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1783	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that Mr. Albianic apply Article 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Interrupt the work of the National Assembly by setting a break in order to carry out the necessary consultations. We consider the defeating fact that the Law on Government, Democratic, European, Reform, and how Prime Minister Kostunica described it in his exposé, suggests the director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Mr Balinovac, with such a compromising professional biography. I'm sorry, it is unacceptable that the proposing or one of the most involved legal ones in Slobodan Milosevic's system, which was engaged in the law of lawlessness, speaks to the Serbian parliament with the ambition to accept the proposed explanation as an explanation in which we should believe. We don't agree with SRS policy. We know very well what they think of us, as I think they know very well what we think of them. Since much has marked our mutual relations, allow me to correct you, Mr Balinovac has never been a member of the party in which I was engaged and has never been a member of the party in which Mr Andric was engaged. It was exactly what you said, when both regimes, but not the regime of Zoran Djindjic, the regime of Vojislav Kostunica, which speaks much more of Vojislav Kostunica than of Mr Balinovac. We find it unacceptable that you, Mr. Balinovac, do it, and help Parliament and withdraw, may another representative of the government appear. In a parliamentary group to support your bill, there are people who were arrested in 99 and 2000 and who came out of this room because they can't stand it. Fall back or you apply Article 98(2), stop this debate, schedule consultations, because this session will not end as the previous one ended, because we will not allow the political fraud we are now facing. If we want to have a democratic government, then the law on this government cannot justify parliament's non-democracy and a person with such a compromising professional biography. We know very well that the SRS did not want to support the law during May 2000. If the SRS is non-democratic to us and we are fighting it and we are criticizing it, then how can we agree and listen to a representative of the government explaining the law, if she didn't want it to support the SRS either. It is unacceptable for us, and do not let this session go to another extreme and do not test our willingness and ability because we oppose it. Interrupt this session and schedule consultations, if you care about the government law, you withdraw and let the government appoint another representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1784	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, I am no longer able to do that. The agenda item has been started and the proposer has explained it and we are continuing to work on the session. According to Businessman Zarko Obradovic, then Mr Todorovic, then Cedomir Jovanovic. If you're not satisfied, we can plead in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask speakers who need to say something about the promoter, or Mr. Balinovac, not to give him a meaning that we don't have in the 1990s. All they have to say is tell him to his face, the man is there, so he'll be in a position to answer, to refrain from other qualifications related to the time Mr. Balinovac was in the Justice Department and for what he was doing back then. If you have the knowledge that Mr. Balinovac was doing something special, then it is time to say, it is not right to mention Slobodan Milosevic and those qualifications about the regime, because if we start talking that way, then there is no problem, then we are absolutely in the mood to do so, because the links between the crime and the regime of Zoran Djindjic and the regime of Zoran Zivkovic, and the regimes of these governments that were so much after 2000 and such, that we will gladly accept such a way of interpreting the work of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1786	We can't qualify like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1787	Listen and see, that's the thing. When you mention Slobodan Milosevic, you can do it, and when you mention Zoran Zivkovic, then you can't. This is the Assembly, and it must be respected the dignity of the Parliament and the dignity of the people, especially of the dead. Anyone who wants to go out for this pay phone and starts talking that way must be aware that we both have what and what to say and that we will talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1788	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's entire session is characterized by a number of violations of the Rules of Procedure. The president of the National Assembly, having suffered defeat in some way, withdrew from the presidency's post, without explaining what his attempt to establish the quorum meant, which means a continuation of the session. I know it's an emergency session, but why was he trying to secure the quorum? So it didn't start out well, it can't be done like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1790	Which member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Batic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1791	Article 104. There's one more thing to say. The fact that Mr Balinovac, as a government official, appears before this parliament, is an insult to the National Assembly, it is an insult to the MPs, it is an insult to all those who fought for democratic and European Serbia until 5 October 2000. Why? I'm a witness to that. Remember the famous Information Act. Remember to shut down certain media and take away the roto-machines and everything else. As justice minister in the first democratic government, Zoran Djindjic, and I am now speaking primarily to the Democratic Party's MPs. I had the right under today's law to initiate proceedings for the resolution of judges for violations and I initiated proceedings for the resolution of a number of judges for violations, which stood out in the application of the Information Act. I've been listening to them since it was scheduled for procedure. A number of them with tears in their eyes said that Mr. Balinovac had forced them to do so, that he was the supervisor of the regime at the time, that he was the Vishini dictator of the time. He's now performing, and he's elected by the DS gentlemen at the government level to, as we say today, the director. There are records of what I keep very carefully. Because Mr. Balinovac was not an official of the government of Zoran Djindjic, nor of the government of Zoran Zivkovic, he was not an official of the government in which I was the minister of justice, let's say, Zarko Korac, Deputy Prime Minister, and after that, Cedomir Jovanovic, vice-president of the government, etc. He wasn't the official of that government. Another detail was that since it was here, among other things, on the agenda and the State Administration Act, at least there was a Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, or he was some octrossed minister to whom Mr. Balinovac was chief. And when I say all this, I have nothing personal against Mr. Balinovac, but he is a phenomenal character of something that should not have been done and he is now performing, as well as Dejan Mihajlov, who was also elected by ministers in the DS government as Secretary General. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1792	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1793	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind the President, you, Mr. Albianic, that you have answered me without looking at the Rules of Procedure. (President: I know the Rules of Procedure well. If this is suggested by the deputy secretary of the National Assembly, then I ask you to make it public. When did you consult with the President of the Assembly, who can only interrupt and set a break in the work of the National Assembly session because of the necessary consultations? What do you mean we as MPs respect you when you don't respect us? If you think we should go over this disrespect, then you're wrong. You didn't consult with President Dulic, you answered me, you didn't look at me, and now you expect me to agree to that. No, we won't agree to that. For us, 220,000 people voted, consult with the President of Parliament, so come back and say, President Dulic doesn't want to take a break in parliament's work, so I'll appeal again, and he'll vote on it in two, three or seven days, in some next day for the vote, but you can't act the way you're acting. Article 98 paragraph 2: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly in order to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion". We ask that the Government withdraw the Balinovac representative and that representatives of the government appear here in the benches, who can take the responsibility they need to take over in the interpretation of the laws we are discussing, and Minister Markovic and Minister Cvetkovic, and the minister of justice, who should take over the role of Mr Balinovac, because it is unacceptable for us to go over it in such a way. The SRS are sitting here because 1,300,000 people voted for them, they represent them. We disagree with that political will, but we respect that fact. For Mr Balinovec, no one voted, except members of the cabinet of the government and we are now sending a clear message to the government - if she cares about these laws, let her change the representative, because it is devastating for us to listen to lessons from Mr Balinovac, the writer of the terrorism law and the realiser of the Law on Informing Mirjana Markovic. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1794	Mr Jovanovic, on the basis of Article 31. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, president of the National Assembly, replaces one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly whom he has appointed. That's why I'm actually the chairman. As for the respect of the MPs, I really want to assure you that I respect all the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and I do not want to offend anyone in any way. Mr. Balinovac answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1795	I thank you, Mr. President, or President. That LDP MPs would do what they were doing, it was clear on Sunday, when they announced a statement, in which they accumulated what they believe was happening in my biography. I thank them for trying to be my biographers, if they have nothing to do, let them try. This is about an obsession with Vojislav Kostunica, a fixation of Vojislav Kostunica, in which a man like myself is attributed to be attacked, of course, by the current Prime Minister. I won't answer what's said. I'll just say one thing, none of what the LDP said, nothing at all, it's not true. In my professional and personal career, there's nothing to be ashamed of. I believe in God and I know what morality is. I ask you not to instrumentate people, their fates and biographies, to realize your fixations regarding Vojislav Kostunica. So, I want to say to the MPs, quite explicitly, since I've been mentioned a hundred times -- nothing, nothing perfectly anything that the LDP has said is not true, nor do they know what was going on, nor do they know where I was or what I was doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1796	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, then Vladan Batic, then Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1797	Mr. Albianic, again, you are allowing a person who is not a representative of the citizens but an institution to pollute with us here as representatives of the citizens. The fact that you, Mr. Balinovac, think of yourself as being a party doesn't interest us at all. What you believe in God is your personal right and your intimacy and keep it to yourself. What you've been doing is exact and clear and we, because of your professional biography, do not agree with the fact that you are the representative of the Law on Government in Serbia in 2007. Whether we are obsessed with Vojislav Kostunica or not, the answer to that question cannot erase the need for an answer to your professional engagement; in 99, 2000, in 98, you were the deputy minister of justice in the government of Mirko Marjanovic. How much justice was best known in Serbia then, and I don't need to tell them about it, but in these parliamentary benches there are MPs who have been arrested, detained, friends of journalists who have been arrested, journalists whose papers have been banned, and we don't want to accept you as a representative of the government, and we suggest that you withdraw or propose to the chairman to apply the Rules of Procedure. Mr Albianic, there is also Article 98(3). Rules of Procedure. So this Rules of Procedure is exactly an open opportunity to solve problems, Article 98, which we are now facing. What do you expect now? You're expecting Mr. Balinovac's confession. You heard what his political associates said about him back then. The fact that they defend their politics speaks of him. We may disagree with that policy, but they defend it. He is trying to say that it has nothing to do with the policy and here he talks about Kostunica, trying to ignore his relationship with Milosevic, Jankovic, Markicevic, JUL, the SPS and the role he once played. Let him defend his role, if he thinks it's honorable, as Mr. Obradovic defends it. It's an attitude, it's a belief, and we don't want to get in the middle of it. The fact that you're making a statement to us here today, what you expect us to do, to keep quiet, because Serbia should have a government and have a Secretariat for legislation, to keep our mouths shut in front of your professional career. We do not want to be silent, here is Mr. Shami, who took you to Podgorica, at a meeting of the Constitutional Commission, or a committee that worked on the Constitutional Charter, at the request of MP Gavrilovic from the Democratic Party, who did not want to attend the session until you left it. We're playing politics here now. It's out of the question, and we're not going to get back together with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1798	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting to a member of 105 who says in his first position - that the work at the National Assembly session is being taken care of by the president or chair of the National Assembly. You, Mr. Chairman, were obliged to warn Mr. Balinovec when he began to deliver his opinion on certain political parties and MPs. He has absolutely no right to do that. He is a government official, he only has the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to make a proposal to the government for which he was designated and nothing more. It is simply inappropriate for a government official to honor and preach to the MPs, and yet to express his opinion of them and to say whether they agree or disagree. It's just unimaginable. There's one proverb, it's long thought out, it's well said -- what's allowed to the emperor, it's not allowed to be someone else, Mr. Balinovac. Unfortunately, you didn't get the message of that proverb, which you should have long ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1800	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Balinovac, I'm glad you agreed to what I was saying. Since I am an MP for the Democratic Democratic Party of Serbia, you agree with what I have said here, but since I am at the Parliament club of the Liberal-Democratic Party, you said nothing is true. It's all true, Mr. Balinian. Don't make us embellish your biography, because if we start taking out other details from your biography, you'll wish you weren't sitting there anymore. It is our very human suggestion that you leave the session of Parliament now, at this very moment. Secondly, no one here mentioned Vojislav Kostunica. I don't know how you got us to attack Vojislav Kostunica through you. We spoke too nicely of what we have to say about Vojislav Kostunica. Let's see what's not true, Mr. Balinian. Were you an adviser to Minister Arangel Markic? Were you the first member of the Democratic Party of Serbia? Yes, it is. I know that, because I was a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia at the time. Next, when the JUL was formed, you moved to JUL, Mr. Balinovac. Isn't that right? That's right. Then don't be called upon to believe in God, for he who believes in Mira Markovic does not believe in God. She's an idolater and she doesn't believe in gentlemen then. Speaking of which, were you later, when the minister of justice was Dragoljub Jankovic, first his assistant for normative affairs, so you were his deputy. Is that true or not true? Mr. Balinovac, you went to some discussions about the application of the Public Information Act. So, don't make me, Mr. Balinian, to bring the judge's statement of offense. Finally, when I became minister of justice, and you from JUL returned to the DSS, you know what the people of the Justice Department told me: whoever please God, just don't let Zoran Balinovac come back here too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1802	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1803	Mr. Chairman, members 104, 101, 113, 98. Where do you want us to go? First let's get out of this, Mr. Balinovac, I'm trying not to talk about it, but I'm one of the founders of OTPOR. We've been following you from the beginning. I've been arrested for seven days for you, seven days before the election. We were helped by some of the people who were with you in the government. What's wrong? As Vladan Batic said, we forgot to tell you what else we have. You were returned to law school when 16 professors resigned in '98 because of the University Law. You gave lectures at that college. Your disrespect and now, at this point, speaks enough of you, but not of us. You're hiding behind Vojislav Kostunica. I'll repeat the question. We asked a question to the Democratic Party. What's the problem? I don't expect an answer from you. But, Mr. Chairman, Article 98, addressed to you by Cedomir Jovanovic, the head of our parliamentary group and requested consultations. I understand you won't or you don't have the courage to explain afterwards why you did it. Item 3 - National Assembly president interrupts the work of the National Assembly in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. I'm asking the National Assembly to come forward now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1804	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. (Ivan Andric: I was looking for a concrete thing. I'm asking the National Assembly to make a statement about it. Put it to a vote. ) Mr. Andric, the word is Natasa Jovanovic, I will answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, National Assembly Vice-President Miloljub Albianic has violated Article 101. Rules of Procedure. This man who sits here, called face, how wrongly those from Tianic's service have signed - the reporter, you are no reporter. Maybe you're reporting to Kostunica about something, I don't know what you're dealing with. You are the authorized representative of the law on the agenda. So, you, Mr. Albianic, are precisely authorized by Oliver Dulic under article 31 to replace him, but he would have to know what your business and every other option is, because when he empowers you to do some work, you have to be prepared and to know how laterally and by way of verticality the situation is going to take place, that you know how MPs are going to report, what they're going to ask you and be prepared, like otters, at any time, at three o'clock to wake you up, you know a member of the Rules of Procedure, you know which indent, which attitude, but obviously you don't know. Because Mr. Balinovac, not as those from RTS say, is a rapporteur, but an authorised representative, director of the Republic Secretariat of legislation. But, Mr. Balinovac, now you have to keep your mouth shut and you can't say a word. Only if this government law comes on the agenda, then you can answer it. You are not a People's MP, and you cannot replicate and debate with us. You can go in the hall, and if I have time to talk to you, or a colleague of Radeta, who was exactly the honorary deputy justice minister when the SRS was in power, and you as JUL's staff in the office across the street, there's a neighbor. You may, on this agenda, conduct a discussion with Mrs. Radet, who is an authorised representative, and you have nothing to look for, because you know that her arguments are much stronger, as are our parties. In order to get into a situation to replicate you have to, first of all, convince those from the DSS that you are a reliable member, that you will not go to another party tomorrow, and ask Vojislav Kostunica to put you on the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica list in the next election, so since he will not have any attachments along the way, since apparently everyone will leave him, to fight to cross the censorship, I think you and the DSS, so that some local or municipal organisation would suggest you there and convince Kostunica that you should get a parliamentary mandate. Only if you come to the Assembly as a People's Messenger can you replicate to the People's Messengers. Until then, you are a government official, with a questionable political biography, with a questionable legal knowledge, which later, Radeta, a colleague, will be measuringly with you to discuss in this conversation. You have to keep your mouth shut and put up with it, because what you've been doing, you know how the truth goes, one day it's obvious that many people know a lot about you, and you're going to have to stand it right now, or you're going to leave the session, whatever. You do not have the right to speak to us in such a way that, in any way other than your intended Rules of Procedure, you address the MPs and the general public who is following this transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1806	Dear Members of the Parliament, as you notice, we have been reporting mostly to the Rules of Procedure since the beginning of work this morning, and we do not notice that we ourselves, reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, are violating the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask all the MPs if we'd really move on to the agenda. As more MPs appear in the Rules of Procedure again and it is not possible to move to the agenda, I am giving the usual daily break of one hour and we continue at 13.55 hours. I thank you for understanding, and I hope that after one hour's break, we will continue on the agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 14.05.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the National Assembly. I'm asking if the committees want a word. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1808	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 104, and I repeat once again that the way you, Mr. Albianic, treat us is humiliation to the Assembly. You had no right to interrupt the congregation an hour before the usual break, with a reason to give a regular break. You had no right to disobey our remarks without commenting and offering an answer to them. You had no right to allow an unauthorized person to take part in the debate with MPs and thus derogate parliament. You had no right, as Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic warned you, to actually harm this assembly, which you are obliged to take care of by interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Once again, we insist on opening consultations within the Assembly, in accordance with Article 98. We ask you, Mr. Albianic, to inform us whether in the previous break, which you have given yourself, you have made contact with the President of Parliament, and if you are not, to tell us in what way you think the further work of this assembly is going on, during the session you have scheduled according to an emergency procedure, if you ignore any of our demands. If someone was correct towards the ruling majority, then it was a Liberal Democratic Party. We didn't do it expecting you to fight back in the same way as LDP. We did it because it was in line with the interests of the citizens of this country. For the same reason, we are protesting the way today's session takes place, especially because of the fact that the government's representative, has been authorised to present the government law, the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Mr Zoran Balinovac, the man we most strongly fought in the period of our opposition action, before the October changes in 2000, a person with a compromising professional career, whose credibility is sufficiently spoken of by the fact that no one from the ruling coalition, who has appointed him as Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, is able to say one word in favour of that decision or decision to defend this particular person today's government law. How do you think we talk about the government law, while ignoring the fact that in this discussion, as an equal participant, Zoran Balinovac should appear when JUL in the darkest political period of our society, the period marked by civil conflicts, political confrontations that brought us to the brink of civil war in October 2000. In our parliamentary group, there are people who were arrested in 2000. They were arrested, among other things, and because Mr Balinovac, as an assistant minister of justice, insisted on it. In the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, there are people who have been arrested, who do not want to participate in the debate and give a quorum to this debate. There is no discussion of the government law then until a decent representative and representative of the government appears. Mr. Balinovac isn't that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1809	Mr. Jovanovic, as far as the break is concerned, according to article 85. The rules of procedure exist for an hour and there is no exact time when it is on a working day. According to Article 104, I am really trying to respect the dignity of every MP and to honor it to the end. According to Article 194 of the proposal, a representative may attend meetings of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now we have three Rules of Procedure and a replica. Let's go in turn, MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1810	One correction, Mr. Albianic, I am a messenger, not an MP. (President: I accept, I apologize. I think it's really incorrect that you decided to take a break right at the moment that LDP MPs wanted to express their position on what Mr Balinovac brought out of this pay phone. Namely, the reason I called is article 101. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the possibility that the MPs of this assembly may be offended. Mr Balinovac insulted the MPs of this assembly, but not only of them, but also of the many citizens that we in this assembly represent, first, in our address from this pay phone, otherwise against the Rules of Procedure, and then with our own presence. You really have a rich biography, Mr. Balinovac, well done. It's kind of the most impressive moment in your biography, after all, that terrorism law. Not because it sounds as terrible as it sounds, but because in me it wakes emotions and memories of the year 2000, when, together with my friends, the activists "Resist", I suffered and trembled at the apartments, where we gathered and thought about how we would bring down the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. However, no matter what, we succeeded. Unfortunately, people like you have managed to question the fluids of this revolution that we have accomplished and to give it a terrible blow, people like you, on March 12, 2003. Still, we don't give up our fight. Now people, like us, have their representatives in parliament, who will insist that people like you be forbidden to enter this house, especially to defend the government law and any other law. That's why we're asking for an urgent replacement of the government law and for it to be someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1811	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Mr Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1812	Dear gentlemen, a replica per article 100, bearing in mind that a number of MPs mentioned the MPs of the Democratic Party. I am reporting as a member and MP for the Democratic Party, and as one of the participants and chroniclers of the 99s and 2000s events, and one of the authors in whose texts was mentioned by Mr Balinovac, whom I really don't know, but I do know about the works he was attached to. So my conclusion and my personal position is that it is absolutely not a happy solution that for the government's rapporteur according to these points of the agenda, for political reasons, not professional, certain Mr. Zoran Balinovac, given the political events in which we all participated. That this is not a happy solution, it also confirms the political speech of Mr. Kalinovci, who took the right to speak in a political sense, to talk about the fixation of the LDP to Mr. Vojislav Kostunica. He had no right to do that. I don't think this case is really the happy way it happened, that it looks like a case if radicals formed a majority government, and Mr Ceda Jovanovic was designated as rapporteur. That would be the same case as the one that happened today. In that sense, my personal position, and I think a large number of DS MPs, is that there is a formal right, but that no happy solution has been chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1813	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, Ivan Andric, and then the Messenger of the People, Zoran Krasic, then the Messenger of the People, Slobodan, and the Messenger of the People, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1814	Thank you. Article 104, i.e. Article 113. Article 113: "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure shall be respected by all who have access to the sitting." Article 104 insults that. I must say that Mr Balinovac deceived the Serbian Parliament and tried to lie to us again, although we said it was better to stop this debate at the very beginning. As time goes by, more and more things will come up. In our parliamentary group, the phone rings all the time and people answer. To begin with, Mr. Balinovac, you were an assistant at the Faculty of Law in 98-1999, you held as an assistant exercise in the Civil-Process Law case. That's right. If you were a member of JUL, no one challenged you, there's a lot of witnesses here. You said everything we said was made up. I will read to you some of Mr. Zoran Balinovac's statements from 2000. On June 1st, in the journal "Actuality" of RTS, on a show titled "Why It Needs a Law Against Terrorism", said Zoran Balinovac, deputy minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia. According to Tanjug, Balinovac cited the incrimination of terrorist propaganda, when the public is called for terrorism to be done either through newspapers, poster stickers and the like. Watch out now, please, to which details were discussed at the time - forgiving a terrorist penitent if he gives the information necessary to break the group and empower the police to send an agent to terrorist organizations with the aim of breaking the entire network. Furthermore, on June 19th and the same year on the show "Exclusive", i.e. under a specific exclusive title "Terrorists don't stand a chance", imagine, "Evening News" held a conversation with Zoran Balinovac, deputy minister of justice in the Serbian government in which, since no one is clear at that time that opposition parties and movements against Slobodan Milosevic are a terrorist organisation, we received an explanation - terrorism is not only murder, in order for someone to be classified as a terrorist, does not have to commit brutal violence, its intention is important. The blocking of traffic, for example, when endangering the security of citizens, as well as threats to taking acts of violence are also terrorism. It is a moment where demonstrations are held in Belgrade over the abduction of Studio B.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1815	Thank you, Mr. Andric, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1816	No, no, sorry, you'll wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1817	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure by time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1818	I'm also reporting for the replica, since Mr. Balinovac said I was lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1819	But that's three minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1820	Okay. According to the Media Center file, there is a list of people who participated in the so-called, let me quote "the informal headquarters for co-ordination of the Information Law, which has decided which media will be severely punished". Also attending the meeting, a single headquarters attended some meetings by Republic Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic, and a permanent staff member was his deputy, Zoran Balinovac. Former Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic, in a statement to the Voice of the Public, confirms our findings. The truth is, those meetings were, and now I'm not so sure it was called one or the other. So, June 1st, here's what I'm going to end up with, although there's a lot of it, there's a voice of the public, there's whatever you want, a law of terrorism will provide for a death sentence. (Dragan Todorovic, from place: Why didn't you read it in 2001) I read it in 2001, Mr. Todorovic. Once again, I am taking the opportunity to call on the chairman to hold consultations, to interrupt the session, and to agree at these consultations on the request of the LDP and the other MPs who spoke here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1821	I ask the MPs to respect the time of the Rules of Procedure, so that they do not violate the Rules of Procedure themselves. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1822	Of course, I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure, you see. A provision of Rules of Procedure that regulates who can be a representative of the Government in the National Assembly has been violated. At a time when the National Assembly was really a representative body, a legislative body, it was known that MPs, government members, and extremely foreign statesmen could come to the National Assembly at the invitation of the President of the Assembly or of the National Assembly. However, it was explicitly forbidden for the deputy ministers, assistants, etc. to be present here. Last year, not last year, it got its normative form, when Mr. Markovic tried something similar to that of this new president, he introduced a provision that, at the invitation of the National Assembly, everyone could be present. I would suggest that, Mr Albianic, with the president of the National Assembly and the presidents of the parliamentary groups, you hold a nice meeting, agree and propose a conclusion to the National Assembly, where it would be said that the legislator of the law, when it is the Government, in the National Assembly, could represent the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministers and no one else, because those who defend the Governments in the National Assembly, are practically defending the Government. Every law is about a mini statement of government trust. If it had been done so, we wouldn't have had two hours of this debate, which at times is really painful, because Mr. Balinovac is just a government official, a state official. Now I don't know by this new terminology a civil servant, a official or in a position, etc., in that rank, and it's completely inappropriate for the National Assembly to bring down the level of its discussion so low that we are now discussing government officials, especially political views of government officials. This is really inappropriate, which just indicates that the government respects the National Assembly. This government does not respect the National Assembly. Probably at some next stage, they're gonna send us some tenant to send us, not a civil servant or a clerk, but a tenant. Why? Because Kostunica simply cannot look anyone in the eye, very simple and simple. He has an organic need to be Prime Minister, because he's probably in some crime, so he sacrificed both the party and his friends and the state if he has to, like this Tadic homeless guy, they'd all just let themselves be in some position, because otherwise I can't interpret that pathology by tying the chair and what goes on the chair. It's something inappropriate. So, it's the government's fault that it devalues the level of debate in the National Assembly, so we need to get Djelic here, so we can go through him. He's the one we can politically dribble here, Mr. Balinovec we can't. We can't. He's a civil servant.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1823	Mr. Krasic, respect your time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1824	Okay, I'll call you next time, there's more injuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1825	Okay. The People's MP Free Maras has a word for the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1826	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to report the injuries of two members of this Rules of Procedure. The first is Article 113, which I will quote at this time: ''The provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the work at the session of the National Assembly shall apply to all other participants in the sitting... '" Mr. Balinovac, I must address you, where you have the right to take your freedom and to give lessons to the MPs of the Liberal-Democratic Party. We have 220,000 citizens who have given you the right to take away our right to talk about you and to hide behind the Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica. I believe that even those citizens who didn't know all this data from your biography, which we hear more and more, and after this turns out when you gave us a lecture, they're sure that you can't do this job that you're doing right now and you can't be our authority promoter. The second injury refers to Rule 104 of this Rules of Procedure, which says, "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." In addition to having no one from the government here for days and sending us their officials and officials, I would like to say that it is devastating and that the MPs of the ruling majority in this assembly insult the dignity of this congregation by their indifference. Before Vice-President Albianic, by no means challenged, gave a break at five to one, when the time was not right, at that moment we had only 30 MPs in the ruling majority in this assembly. It's not a better case now, and I really don't know what it is if it's not a violation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1827	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic, then Verica Radet, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1828	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To be clear, I'm not attacking Mr. Balinian, I'm just saying how pointless this is what we're talking about here today. Namely, a gentleman from Koseric, from the Democratic Party, named Vujadinovic Dragan, signed a request to hold this session. Isn't that right, sir? And you signed, and your application says you're proposing the following agenda: the amendment law and the amendment of the Government Act, which was submitted by the Government, that and that number. In this bill, which you asked for and signed, it says nicely: Zoran M. Balinovac, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, has been designated as a representative of the Government of the National Assembly. Now I see you're against the appointment of this man. Your government, in which you have 50% of the ministers, has appointed him. Do you, gentlemen, exist like most or do you not exist? Why did you name him? I understand that we from the opposition can say something critical, but it's your representative. It's a representative, colleagues, friends and fellow Democrats, your government. Zoran Balinovac is a representative of your government and don't attack him. We're supposed to be attacking him, and you're supposed to be defending him here. I'm not going to attack the man who worked well with us. Otherwise, as for the Rules of Procedure, I will remind what Dusan Petrovic, head of your parliamentary group, said on 7 May 2007, ''It was necessary after parliamentary elections that this assembly gave its legitimacy to the State Negotiation Team, because the State Negotiating Team for Kosovo and Metohija had its legitimacy, its political powers, its legal powers drew from the authority given to it by the previous assembly of parliament. Of course, a resolution has been adopted, but there is a clear obligation in that resolution, which is that this parliament should be shown what happened in Vienna and in which there are now state-of-the-art interests in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. That is why, on 30 March, the Democratic Party asked, insisted that Mrs. Vukic schedule this session, we wrote clearly in the explanation. '"What's the date today? It's May 30th, and it's March 30th. Mr Petrovic says: "I am concerned that today we cannot open a debate on the report before the State Negotiation Team. I am concerned that the opportunities in which Serbia is located are far from being good. I am concerned that the Democratic Party asked for this session of Parliament on 30 March, and it is not until today. I'm worried about losing that time. Just because of the things you were talking about... (I suppose that's what Milos Aligrudic is talking about) and Vuk Jeremic, and Guzenbauer, which is why we need to discuss the State Negotiation Team's report, to show these lies and lies, that's a farce made by some who create public opinion in Serbia. That's why it's important for the state-negotiation team to file their report here. That's what Dusan Petrovic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1829	Mr. Dacic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1830	Mr Albianic, do you know that Alfred Guzenbauer, Chancellor of Austria, will discuss this issue at the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe session on June 25th? Do you know that on June 28th at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Carla del Ponte and Vuk Jeremic, as our foreign minister, will speak? Do you think we should put that topic on the agenda by then? Did you read what Ambassador Polt said today? "Our relations are burdened with the issue of Kosovo, but I think we should concentrate on other fields where we could co-operate," the US ambassador said, adding that ordinary Serbs are not one of the priorities, but that they are business and living standards. We're obviously not ordinary Serbs here. We are interested in both Kosovo and Metohija, but since this is a topic and since the Democratic Party of Serbia likes to quote TUNJU, BETU and everything else when it attacks the Democratic Party, since there is no Mr Aligrudic, I will give Mr Shami, so when it is in discussion, to use this because it is said, Guzenbauer is the topic of your division. Milos Aligrudic will be head of a delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which attacked you over this famous Guzenbauer. The Vuk Jeremic will speak at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Therefore, Mr Albianic, take advantage of your authority as vice-president of Parliament, ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a report on Kosovo and Metohija. As for everything else, we don't interfere with your staff policy. Choose whoever you want, name whoever you want, and we're glad you name ours, we're very glad, we have many. But here, I heard today that Goran Svilanovic has a chance to be head of the Security Information Agency, he is ideal for the job, since he is a longtime co-worker of the State Security, with his encrypted name he knows best how he co-operates with national security. Was his name Socrates, right? Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1831	The word has a folk MP, Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Dr Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1832	Article 31, relating to Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I know that, Mr. Albianic, this is too complicated for you, I assume that someone will help you, since you today have shown that you are not up to doing this job that the majority of you have voted on. It would be good to get out of that place, call the president, who may have gone to study the Rules of Procedure and left you untrained, and that's why we're doing what we do today. Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen, the basic reason why Mr. Balinovac cannot sit here today is contained in Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I don't think anyone's said that. It says here - members of the government, authorised representatives of other legislators and secretaries of the Republic Secretariat for legislation take part in meetings of the National Assembly, in addition to the MPs. Mr Balinovac, you are not the Republic Secretary for Law. You have now been baptized differently, you are now a certain director and you should have taught the secretary of the National Assembly to bring the Rules of Procedure into line with the Law on Government and with other laws, not to wander the Rules of Procedure, therefore, for one formal reason you cannot sit there. But I actually answered for something else. National MP Milena Stankovic just broke Article 104. Rules of Procedure, it was allowed by Mr. Albianic, on his soul, and that is why the MPs in the voting day will declare the injury because I will not be satisfied with what you are unable to explain to me, Mr. Albianic. Ms Milena Stankovic also violated members 18 and 19. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I have no intention of side by side of Zoran Balinovec, or anyone else, anyone here is capable of defending themselves, but Mrs. Stankovic, who are you that you can tell from here who can enter this assembly and who can't? Who are you to say that Zoran Balinovac can't come in or anyone? 'Your regret for October 6th, Mrs. Stankovic, will remain your eternal regret. I'm sorry, but you'll never make it right again. Missed the opportunity may have been, but that doesn't happen again. You know, you're Kragujevac. There, in 60 polling stations, you had zero votes. I don't know, really, whose name you can tell anyone. What would you do if Zoran Balinovac were in his polling position, or on the DSS election list if he had been elected by citizens, would you say then that he could not enter this parliament because he once represented the Anti-Terrorism Act, and you mention the death penalty. How can you sit in the same parliamentary group with Mr Batic, who advocated that the death penalty be imposed only 48 hours at the time of "Sabbe" action, only to kill whom you thought to kill, which you missed on October 6th. We won't let you do that, Mrs. Stankovic... (President: Time, Mrs. Radeta. I'm done. By the way, you've already moved time to 4 minutes and 60 seconds during these previous discussions by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic. Please treat all MPs the same. The fact that you don't love us, I'm sorry, the people love us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1833	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr Vladan Batic. Milena Stankovic reported on the replica, but we have to do it in order, the Rules of Procedure have an advantage. Mr. Batic's on his way. Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is Milena Stankovic. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: I do not give in. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1834	Mrs. Radeta, I'm a folk emissary, please remember that. So, when you talk about me, please, I'm a folk MP, and the other ladies can feel like MPs, I don't mind. In fact, Mr Balinovac had no right to speak from this pay phone in a context in which he addressed us, therefore, as a rapporteur, but not as someone who would express pedagogical measures to LDP MPs. As for that information you've provided, on these election results, I must remind you that I have 5,000 Kragujevchan behind me. I've been in politics for a year, and I've managed to get 5,000 Kragujevan behind me. Imagine, Mrs. Radeta, when I'm as old as you are now, imagine how many people it will be. Then the LDP will have two million voters. But in this whole story, it's not about radicals, it's not about Mrs. Radeta, what defeats me in this place are our friends from the DS, who can't watch all this, and I know there are a lot of people who think the same way we do and who are very insulting to Mr. Balinovec's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1835	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zdravko Topalovic, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, then Dragan Vujadinović, then Cedomir Jovanovic, and Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1836	Ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman of this assembly today violates both the law and the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, I appeal to Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, preparation is under way for another major robbery by Serbian citizens. In fact, most of Serbia's state lottery employees have announced that today's sale of Serbia's state lottery business building in Uskoga is 4-6 of the prominent G 17 plus members from the Great Plan. It's about the building, to point out, Serbia's Loto, former Serbia's lottery, Beo-loto, former Belgrade lottery and Serbia's state lottery. In fact, something similar has already happened with a business building on Svetozar Markovic's 40th Street, when the sales included the staff of the Resistance, G17 and so on. The democratic bloc, Mr. Bojan Kristo, Mr. Franz Gerjal... (President: Excuse me, which member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Articles 225 and 226. (President: What does this have to do with those members? There is, requesting notice from the authorities. Namely, this business building on Svetozar Markovic's 40th Street, instead of money from sale, 75% to be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and 25% as social capital at the expense of Beo-loto, has been paid in full at the expense of the Serbian State lottery. The building was not given the consent of the Agency for Property of the Republic of Serbia, and what kind of people here mentioned in the Resistance and from the democratic bloc, it has been working, speaking and shorter working biography of Mr. Bojan Krista, general director of the Serbia State lottery since 23.09.2004, where he became director without a single day of employment. It is the same gentleman who uses exclusively an airline taxi "Pinka" for destinations London, Dubrovnik, Dubai, without a tender to obtain 5,000 machines for the payment of lottery, and imagine an instant lucky "Okrebi and treasure" print in Croatia. The lottery tickets are printed in Krnjaca, in the company of former Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic of G 17 Plus, which are in this very poor quality, and the reference of the company concerned, Mr Markovic's sister, is that the printing of all propaganda material for G17 plus. Mr. Franz Gerjal is the director of Beo-loto by April, is declared a technological surplus and is paid a 525-euro severance fee per year, and buys official Octavia in 2004, for 2,000 euros without advertising. Now he's working for the lottery under the contract, he's in charge of handing over facilities,... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and the monthly allowance is 650 euros. I'm done. In this nepotism, Mr. Kristo employs narrow and wider relatives, starts with his native sister Tamara, his confidence man, the head of the fleet and the warehouse is otherwise an autolimar, his wife is head of accounting in the State lottery of Serbia, his sons work through a youth cooperative, and he is the only one who has a key to the vault, instead of a three-member commission. Another resistance has been observed in all the machinations, Mr. Milos Christodulo. This gentleman, even though he doesn't have a degree in college, is very skilled at doing the dirty work of Bojan Krist... (President: Mr. Topalovic, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... And Franco Gerjala, because he owns a degree in school resistance. Understand the concerns of the state lottery employees. Maybe this will keep us from stealing and selling state property for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1837	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, then MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1838	Mr Albianic, you systematically violate the Rules of Procedure, especially Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which in one general way prescribes that you must take care of the dignity of the National Assembly, so that it does not look like a circus, as some, who have recently entered the National Assembly, have given a statement here at the door to a journalist about -- like, circusers are in the National Assembly. Now let me explain, it will be best for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand. What's this about? The government of the Republic of Serbia is an ugly government, a bad government. It's made up of Dosmanlia regime nostalgics, who think this is the last time they can grab as much as they can and of course have made some parliamentary majority here. There are some neither guilty nor debtors of the ruling parties, sitting and listening, this is none of their business, but I must say this is neither the Minister nor the Government. They're pulling too early. They absolutely subdued the National Assembly, they put this subject in to have fun here. Of course, we radicals don't want to have fun on this subject. This topic has been introduced to satisfy the public, so that tomorrow some newspapers, with some inscriptions, will be re-published in the Assembly. For what? Because of this government's fundamental disrespect for, above all, the Constitution, for citizens and for the vital interests and the most important issues affecting this people. It's unacceptable, and there are some difficult circumstances, because in the government there are mostly people whose pituitary has stopped somewhere, mental development ended with October 5th, and now they're constantly imposing on us something that was before October 5th. These seven years, they don't exist, because they think it's a period of transition, and then they show us here at work, one opposition party comes out and says, as our friends from the Democratic Party, they're just surprised. They are the same, in order to make one media manipulation, now there will be a little more Democrats, and tomorrow there will be a little more of them, but that quasi-democratic block should stay together. Why? To pick up what's left to pull. Someone put in Mr. Balinovec's intentional theme, a completely irrelevant topic for today's debate, if we take 10 hours, when we start this session, but it's supposed to satisfy the citizens, it's supposed to disgust the citizens of the National Assembly, it takes journalists to write their mirrors and their polygraphs, to entertain the public by the system of what -- hold the thief, and someone here finishes some work. Everyone in the country is responsible for the National Assembly, the government is doing just fine. As you had an opportunity from several quotes of something that was a few days ago, you could see no more of those democratic paroles, no more of that obstruction of its kind -- why it's not on the agenda of something that's important to the state. It was important until they got their hands on the chair. They got their hands on the chair, they're gone. Be assured, as the Assembly does day by day, this here will be empty. There are no government representatives. Why? They've got 126, and they've got extra ones. Why? Because that's all at the level of thinking that ends with October 5th. It still doesn't exist. There's a heavy dark going on. So, if you don't like this debate, know that MPs are forced to discuss it, because Democrats want democracy to be afraid of liberals. The DSS are quiet, they can't get by. So, one blur. And then what Mr. Zdravko read, we'll read for days what happens in the meantime; and the oil industry, and these mafias and all that ends. I don't know if anyone in that government is talking to anyone, obviously no one's talking to anyone. Then we get here in a situation where we get a democracy out of our hands and deny ourselves. If you intend to spray yourself with something, go outside the Assembly, sign a man to represent the government and then say I have something against this man. If you have anything against this man, go out into the hallway and discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1839	Mr. Krasic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1840	You're the same coalition, you're the same team, and you're performing together, not now you're in power to make some opposition. That is what Mladjan Dinkic is in charge of, when, of course, the right moment comes. And you need citizens to understand, this democratic block is so little by little that something is just because you don't go to jail. If Mladjan hadn't gone 3%, he'd have been in jail a long time ago. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. Not to remind those who say, they can steal a little bit, but not much. Well, that's our government. This is the ugly government, this is a government that is a disgrace to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They prove it every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1841	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1842	Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Member of the 104th century 1, 2nd and 3rd. Mr. Albianic, we voted for you by respecting the rules of normal political life in the Serbian Parliament. We voted for you despite our disagreement with your party's policy and this vote obliges you to have the same relationship with us as with the ruling coalition's representatives. We've been trying to explain to you for four hours that you have a duty to interrupt the session and schedule the consultations of the president of the parliamentary groups. For four hours, you've been ignoring the obligation to monitor your function. If you were forced to run for the post of Vice President of the Assembly and you were forced to perform that function, introduce us to it. Otherwise, start acting in accordance with the obligations that follow the function you are in. We repeat that it is unacceptable for our parliamentary group to participate in the discussion of the Bill on Amendments of the Government Act with Mr Zoran Balinovac, his time assistant and deputy minister of justice in the government of Mirko Marjanovic. We've told you so many times why it's unacceptable for us and we're ready for the rest of today's work, so for the next four hours we're constantly presenting new arguments that justify our relationship with the government and its representative. First June 2000, Republican Public Prosecutor Dragisa Krsmanovic, Belgrade Faculty of Law Dean Oliver Antic, deputy Serbian Justice Minister Zoran Balinovac. I will not say anything about Mr Balinovec's idea of imposing a death penalty in Serbia and thus protecting the order which he has compromised by his relationship with the law to the point that today cannot be our legitimate talker. But I'll tell you that as LDP MPs, we want to discuss the Law on Government but in the atmosphere where authentic representatives of the government will sit here, because we don't, despite all that, that Mr Balinovac is a representative of the Democratic Party. Since you've been protecting him so much, it's obvious that the role of the new JUL, which G17 has provided itself over the past few years, has grown to you so much that you've started to act like he's a member of your party. Here is the MP from the Democratic Party, Mr Badjevic from Zaječar. In 2000, I came to Zajecar, where we protested together in front of the police station because DS members were arrested and beaten at the police station because they were glued to posters. Here sits the deputy justice minister of that time who described it as an act of state terrorism. There is no debate on the Government Act until a competent representative of the Government appears. Mr Balinovac, that none of what we think of you is true, you have deceived this House, lied, deceived. You have addressed us against the rules of parliamentary life, although you have no right to do so. You said nothing we said was true. We have kilograms of your statements. Do I have to remind you that you were a member of the Crisis Staff for the application of the Information Act, that you met with people and issued directives, how much punishment there should be, how many judges for violations must collect something, within which time it should do so, to which applications must not respond, since we have filed charges against 'Politics', RTS. Mr. Wolf's got my head on straight. I've talked about the SRS so many times, but they were voted by the citizens. We disagree with them, but they are legitimate representatives of their constituents. Who do you represent here, to suit me? The government of the Republic of Serbia? You do not represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you represent Vojislav Kostunica, the Prime Minister, who abuses his position, blackmail, as he can only do so, practically providing you with the position you are performing today. We disagree, get out of this room if you want to help the government start doing its job. If you keep sitting there, you'll prove that nothing means what we're doing to you. You will only confirm everything, even more drastically, that we have spoken of so far, that you are ruthless and that there is no higher interest except for your personal interest, which at this moment does not allow you to step down, because your withdrawal is a confirmation of all those allegations we speak of and which we mention in the previous four hours. If you get out of here, we'll tell you right now, we'll ask the government to relieve you, and if you don't get out of the way, there won't even be a debate about the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1843	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this debate is losing every sense. I appeal, first of all, to the parliamentary group of DS and the mandated promoter to cover the further abuse of both the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, so much before we, in a series of conversations with our colleagues and friends from the DS, have obtained an unequivocal conclusion, that they too think this is an insult to the people's parliament, that they feel uncomfortable too, that they are uncomfortable, that in some way, out of a commitment of loyalty to their own party they are still sitting there, a number of them will not vote, and I think it's simply all unthinkable. As for Mr Balinovac, I think it would be best for you to end this torture and the citizens of Serbia, and the MPs, and your own torture. "This ferocious act was carried out by Zoran Balinovac, then JUL's deputy minister of justice, Balša Govedarica, Supreme Court President and the most shameful person in the history of economic courts, Cedomir Prosper. It's proof that my personality is being conducted by genocide, just like Zoran Balinovac 9 told me. Ten. In 2000, extorting my resignation, which, despite everything, I didn't give. He threatened me with a mounted criminal procedure through furniture, falsifying my handwriting. And here's the thing -- it's done, which is unrecorded in court practice. He fled from JUL to Kostunica and strengthened my enmity with the same, because of my constant calling that he was illegally elected president of the SRJ. So far, I thought that I was exiled only by a judicial octopus, but now I know that it is also political logistics that Balinovac, as high-ranking in the DSS, provides through Kostunica." Imagine that even Milena Arežina, former President of Trade or Business Court, spoke of Zoran Balinovac, who was his longtime associate, since he was an assistant and deputy minister of justice, and she at one of the most significant judicial functions in Serbia. Mr. Balinovac, it wouldn't be right if we read further. My appeal is, if you want from human initiatives, to raise your own hands from this further abuse and terror of the MPs, when you have not already passed the act of terrorism, do not terrorise these people who have a shortcut from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1845	According to the Rules of Procedure, Nebojsa Rangelovic and then Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1846	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, because I want to appeal to you, Mr. Chairman, to prevent further violations of the Rules of Procedure and that you do not violate it yourself. All day long we've been attending a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a meter and 30 minutes wouldn't be enough to list all the members who have been broken, so I'm just going to stick to Article 104 and Article 100. You, Mr. Chairman, first of all allow, it concerns Article 104 that LDP MPs Mr. Balinovac publicly insults you, you do not respond, and then you violate Article 100 yourself. Paragraph 2 of Article 100 says - the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion is injured, to quote and explain what the infringement consists of. All LDP MPs adhered to Article 100(2), so they cited which provisions of the Rules of Procedure were violated, quoted and explained. Item 3 says -- the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. Not once, Mr. Chairman, have you given us an explanation, and on the other hand, you have granted us the flagrant insult of our honor. And finally, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to reconsider one more time, both legally and politically comprehensive, a proposal from the LDP and end this agony regarding one individual.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1847	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vukic, then Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the citizens of Serbia didn't think we were really in vain, even though every kind of outing for a pay phone or what looks like an obstruction of a legitimate and legal form of parliamentary struggle, it would be good for people to know that we have much smarter work to do today, and we don't, thanks to the congregation's majority. For the sake of the MPs who work, they are in the O.R. all day long, I will only state what the latest news is, and then I will explain and explain everything about the Rules of Procedure and about what Mr Tomislav Nikolic spoke about this morning, what had to be found on the agenda today in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was never allowed. In fact, today, Martti Ahtisaari said Kosovo must gain independence one way or another. Today, until we discuss Kosovo and Metohija, thanks to the majority in the Serbian Parliament, Michael Polt, the US ambassador, today at 11.40 p.m., said he expects Kosovo and Metohija to gain independence by the end of June, or Kosovo, and certainly before he leaves the ambassador's post in Serbia, that means by the beginning of August. Also, you have today's Ban Ki Moon initiative, which immediately requires the adoption of a resolution in the UN Security Council and today you have a statement by Veton Suroi, through various NGOs in Caglavica, from an organised meeting, which he said was already in the UN tomorrow, the EU and US resolution, against Serbia and against Kosovo and Metohija. What are we talking about today? About Balinovac? About what? What would you like to talk about today? What would the congregation majority talk about and not talk about? I only made four statements. You want me to name the fifth, Prodiva, after the meeting and the major diplomatic offensive with Boris Tadic? Romano Prodi says - yes, Italy and I as its prime minister are for independent Kosovo. In Serbia, everyone's quiet. The main news -- we may continue negotiations if Carla del Ponte is satisfied, if I don't know what happens, if, as it says, "Justice", Svilanovic becomes BIA director or I don't know what. Is that the point? What are we people talking about here? Our country is on fire, our country is disappearing in front of our eyes, and we're talking about it: it's like this or something. I really don't know, but I'm pretty sure I can't say a word about a Balinian, not because he's not a good legal technician or I don't know what. No, but because of his ideological beliefs, from JUL to DSS or I don't know what, but it certainly isn't worse and worse than Bozidar Djelic, or Mladjan Dinkic, or I don't know who. They can't make a man worse. But our country's on fire. We're being kidnapped by Kosovo and Metohija with ten statements, we're playing around, I don't know what we're doing today, because the government in the National Assembly, because most in the National Assembly won't respect the Constitution, the constitutional law and the norms that we've all brought together or that she's brought herself. Then, of course, you challenge the opposition and let's see what happens today. Each time responsibility for everything that happens in the National Assembly is borne by the majority; by its tactics, by its good relationship, or by its bad relationship, it shows the direction of the minority how to behave. When we had one president of the Assembly, who boasts a lot, has everything and has no sense, you have expelled MPs, however you will and wherever you will, in whatever way you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1849	Mr. Wolfie, please respect the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1850	I thought you wanted to hear something smart. I heard you said all sorts of stupid things last night about seven days of accident, sadness or not, we welcomed, Mr. Albianic, and we survived seven years of what, misery, robbery, which, along with all the others in DOS, has been organized by the citizens of Serbia. To once again inform MPs who do not know that they are not using the Syntagma of state terrorism. Am I right, Mr. Balinovac? It's a state terror. State terrorism, in that part the entity is a state, not individual civil servants, but against another state, not within its own state. So, that these things don't interfere, because people who know something about the right sounds pretty funny when things like that are said in an incorrect and unserious way. To conclude, we today have five most important statements that are directly against Serbia, five people who decide in one way or another on the future of Serbia, and today you have only one statement by Ryapkov and one from the Palestinian woman, who says they are against Kosovo's independence and Metohija. Both statements come from Russia. For us, the key question that we ask today is again, how will you, when one leg moves to the European Union, and they take away Serbia, destroy Serbia, kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, and when another leg moves towards Russia, and it protects Kosovo and Metohija and protects Serbia as much as it can, what will we do then? What's your answer to that? What is the policy of the Serbian government? Go back to respecting the Constitution, respecting the law, Mr. Chairman, you, the ruling majority. Serbia won't be better off with us wasting our time in stupidity by six hours. Let us deal with serious issues, serious issues that we are dealing with, and I am quite sure that citizens will not forgive us for being insecure, not taking care of Kosovo and Metohija, not taking care of their better lives, while yours are only looking at where a new firm is going to rob. I see they're already arguing whether it's NIS or EPS first. Thank you again for putting up with me, Mr. Albianic, it would be good for you to repeat some of this in your...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1851	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, and then Zoran Shami, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1852	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the G17 plus parliamentary group, as well as in the previous session, will behave constructively and truly with one single wish that this parliament works in favour of the citizens of Serbia. Our job here is to pass laws, and I really need to remind you that in the campaign we all swore before the citizens of Serbia that she must move faster, that there is no time to wait, that it depends on us how fast she will move forward. I want to remind you of all our promises. In addition to the many news we heard today, I want to say that Serbia has received another good news today. In fact, you have heard most likely about the announcement that Mr Olli Rehn will propose a continuation of the Stabilisation and Association negotiations with the European Union. So I turn to those who care about it, to the European path of Serbia, to make us on this path which is really many laws and really many constructive discussions about which way we want to go. I don't think today's debates are less important, but I would like to say that the G17 Group of MPs plus is seriously abstaining from entering this kind of debate, with the hope that we'll start working seriously on what it is to be our job. That, however, ladies and gentlemen, doesn't mean that we're really going to tolerate every party calling G17 plus, with any ideas that anyone here can think of. So, of course, with all our tolerance, we're going to answer to something like that, and I'm asking you to stop calling it G17 plus, without any arguments and no evidence whatsoever. I call upon all MPs who have any record of embezzlement or any illegal activity of our members to report them absolutely to the prosecution, the judicial authorities and the police. When, ladies and gentlemen, we meet in court, as we have met, then I warn you not to avoid hearings, not to call for immunity and not to defend yourselves behind your alleged political views when you make the most serious insults at the expense of members of G17 plus. All those who need to be in prison, find themselves in prison, all who need to pay their sentences and sentence, pay them, and then we'll have a legal state for which we all stand. Until then, I'm seriously inviting you back to our subjects today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1853	The People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Shami, has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1854	I said the magic word of the Rules of Procedure, and now, according to how the last four hours have been debated, I could probably talk about everything and everything, so one 17 times. However, I did report to the Rules of Procedure, concerning Articles 100 and 103. In Article 103, point 1 states: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda". I would like to remind you that it is on the agenda and that we are discussing the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted by the Government, etc. Secondly, Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament states that the rules of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion have been violated, that it is quoted and reasoned, etc. And all the rights to that. Mr. Chairman, I need you, as well as the President of the Assembly, to blame the last four and a half hours for violating the Rules of Procedure regarding these two members. Is there anything you want to say? Please, today's meeting isn't about Mr. Zoran Balinovac. The subject of today's violations of the Rules of Procedure is also not Mr. Zoran Balinovac, as his name is not mentioned in the Rules of Procedure anywhere. I respect the suggestions of other parties, who rightly found that we have much important work to do. On the one hand, the debate on the unfortunate issue of Kosovo and Metohija, on the other hand, makes reasonable proposals to end elections and governors, and the ombudsmans and to form all that we owe under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution to do. If we're conscious, and you're doing it consciously, don't lie, let me discuss it for four hours and 15 minutes, let me do my assessment, nothing, at least nothing important, then we'll probably be doing some important government business by the time we get back to the new year. Let me really appeal to all the parliamentary groups to start discussing the points that are on the agenda. They also need to be brought in so we don't waste any time, because then we'll be able to do all the other jobs in time. I would ask the chairperson not to allow discussion of everything else, but at least of the Rules of Procedure, under the firm's hearing on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1855	Thank you, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dačić, Tomislav Nikolic, and Ivan Andric, and Maras Slobodan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President Albianic, of course I don't think anyone here knows who's defending whom, and who's attacking and who's on whose side. Government people criticise a man who reports and submits a particular document on behalf of the government. We from the opposition, come to defend him, so we remember he's no longer ours, so I don't know, we can't really defend him. He's still better than those who were never ours. Next time, we're just waiting for some legal projects to come, so we're going to write epics, odysseys about those people who were at the founding congress of the SPS, and now they're ministers in this democratic government. I know you had a problem with the frames. You could have spoken to us, we'd have given you better, but since you took it yourself, I don't mind. Just don't tomorrow, please, I'm looking into your eyes from DS, and I don't know who to look at because there's nobody here, no, from Democratic, and you're from the DSS, and now I'm going to look you in the eye. So, and there are also from New Serbia, the G17 Plus is there and it's always nice to watch them, and especially that female part of the parliamentary club. Anyway, I'm just warning you, don't talk about lustration tomorrow. Who are you going to lute? Oh, who? You'd have to luxuriate half the government and castrate. Anyway, maybe not, you're right. In any case, don't split Serbia into blocks anymore when you in your ranks have mixed it all up... (President: Mr Dacic, you must take care of the terms you use. Of course, but my time, how much time do I have left? (President: And insults, please. How much time do I have left? I've got 30 seconds left, and I can say anything in 30 seconds. (President: I did not warn you during the time, but for the dictionary. What about the dictionary? You know what, Mr. Albian, whenever one of yours is mentioned, you remember the words. When you talk about political opponents, then be a real politician, I'm talking to everyone. Everyone's suffering from his suffering and grief, but don't, when you mention one dead man, and you're exulting over what he's dead, you're living over his grave, and you're waving with the glagour, and you think that's the element of democracy that you've been fighting for, and when someone else is dead, you're talking about a dictionary every word of criticism. Be correct. Leave the dead to rest in peace, and ask yourselves whether each one of you is worthy to discuss them here. In any case, I have reported, among other things, to say that the aim of each government is to have as little discussion in parliament as possible, but the goal of every opposition is to have as many discussions in parliament as possible. You were the opposition until yesterday. You'll be back soon. In any case, we've made a little wish for opposition roles. We had no one to criticize these three years, and don't deny us that satisfaction. Anyway, don't even think about shortening the debate. This is where Serbia should see the ones it voted for. I call on every MP to go out for a pay phone, to express his program, so don't serve here, fellow MPs, to applaud the heads of Parliament's clubs and vote by order - green, red or yellow. I believe in God, here comes Mr. Batic, but today happened a miracle, and to cross, Mr. Batic quoted Milena Arežina today, anything is possible today in Serbia, no longer knows who supports who and who attacks here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1857	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to present to you the position of the SRS. We are an opposition party and there is no opposition in that term, there are opposition parties or parliamentary groups, each has its own ideology, its principles, its reasons. I really think it's inhumane to deal with one man in this congregation, whoever it is. Meet Kostunica here, welcome Tadic, as the sources of all evils in Serbia, you will have us together. And to create this kind of circus on the person of the secretary of legislation, whom I have resented in the past term, whose laws were not stylishly at the will of the SRS parliamentary group, but he does the job, he is an official of the government, and to shake out an officer, it represents some sign of weakness. The easiest thing to do is to welcome someone who works for a salary, and welcome these kidnappers who take away, half of Serbia has already stolen, and they don't bother you, and they can appear wherever you want, and when they come here for a session, you won't have any objections. The most dangerous thing is that you're dealing with a man because he belonged to a political party. That's what he says about yourself. You'd like to hang, you'd like to shoot, just because someone belonged to another political party. I can't accept that manners. That is why not at this point or in this way of discussion will be in the parliament of the opposition and the authorities, but one parliamentary group, the opposition, because it does not participate in the government, and the ruling one is, because I see it voting for many laws of the government, will remain here alone to fight this problem. This problem that Balinovac is personifying you with a regime that was defeated in 2000, and that now someone has taken it as an expert man again in some new regime, which you cannot get over, you will have to suffer yourself, because in Serbia if you told all people who have ever, anywhere, done anything, you new, you have nothing at all. There wouldn't be a man writing a bill. There wouldn't be a man running the business. Tell me, of all of you heroes' sons who've ever been hit by a factory gate on the backside, what would the workers say? Here, bravo, three hands. Congratulations in advance. But look who's leading you. Do they know what production is? This splendor of the European Union from you G 17-Isaves, as I would say, you now want to convince the children that they've been beaten, we'll get more beatings, they'll make us cry a lot, but they'll give us candy to comfort us and stop crying. The ideologists of the European Union - come here to defend after the final position on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Will you then need Ollie Rehn to expand the European Union, with Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija? You think you'll be able to get here so bravely from this pay phone to say, what do you want, here, Ollie Rehn offers to continue the negotiations. What does the negotiations offer? So you won't leave the government? Is it possible he's not saving the government that way? If he offered negotiations to save Kosovo and Metohija, I would congratulate you, but he offers negotiations for you to stay in government, to stay in government. And the government will last another 15 or 20 days. After that, and if you stay together, it won't be the government. It's going to be one set, because the government is decorated some way, some direction, some goal, some ideology. In the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, the government is falling apart. You've forgiven each other, you've come together, good luck to you, good luck to us. But we've got that vital problem that you're running away from. Where are the stories of the Kosovo and Metohija debate now? Where the hell is the DSS, DS, G 17 plus, where the hell are you people? Who are we going to learn these attitudes from? Let's spend another month talking about the Balinian, so we don't realize we have more important things. We are prepared to discuss the law, not the man who defends the law here. When Dinkic comes, when Djelic comes, then we are ready to discuss which law he defends, because it is difficult for us to put ourselves under the influence of a man. Balinian is much more a man than they are and therefore suffers this much criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1859	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Ivan Andric, then the People's MP, Maras Slobodan, according to the Rules of Procedure. After the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1860	Article 98. Mr. Albianic, the last 10 speakers have said that we have been discussing here for four or five hours at a time. I agree with most of them. Now I ask you a question, why do you continue to take that responsibility upon yourself and refuse to apply Article 98(3)? That's the attitude we've filed. I mean, at 2:00, now it's half past four. Please apply this attitude and end this agony. Repeat once again, we are calling now to schedule a break, interrupt the session and hold consultations of the heads of parliament groups and, together with everyone, to find a solution to get out of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1861	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1862	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, reporting for violation of Rule 87 of this Rules of Procedure. I must quote him: "The National Assembly meetings, alongside the MPs, are attended by members of the government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the secretary of the Republic Secretariat of legislation, as well as by other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly. "If we have all received here in the materials of the National Assembly, Vice-President Bozidar Djelic, who is Deputy Prime Minister, shall be appointed by Mr Balinec, Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. Please, as well as the previous speaker, that, in accordance with Article 98(2), you set a break in the work, in order to carry out the necessary consultations and that finally more Mr Balinovac here is not represented as a representative of the Government because the government was probably aware, as well as the ruling majority in this assembly, what his appearance as a proposing here is going to cause. Mrs. Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, you just came to us and asked us to start doing the job we're here for. All day today and in previous days you and your coalition partners from this assembly, meaning the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, are largely not present in this room. About 1 hour, when Mr. Albianic announced a break, or gave a break, you were 30. At five to two it was supposed to be a start, at two and ten there were 30 people in this room. And now you're back in the great minority. If all MPs from the opposition took out their cards, you would see that you were gone from 40 to 50. Do not tell us, then, that we need to keep an eye on what is going on in this congregation, but that you respect this congregation and the citizens and be present as we discuss very important matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1863	Mr. Marash, on the basis of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a member of the 87th was amended and in his member instead of the word "secretary" we now have the word "director". I ask the Legislative Committee and the President of the Legislative Committee to schedule it and, in accordance with the needs of the Assembly's work, to deliver it to the Assembly and to the Members of Parliament, a consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure. We now have a business according to Natasa Jovanovic, then Cedomir Jovanovic. Mr Batic, the replica is in your hands and with Mr. Todorovic, and it waits until the business is exhausted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1864	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, which regulate the rights and obligations of the messengers of the people. I will use my right to invite the citizens of Kragujevac to come to the City Hall in Kragujevac tomorrow, May 31st, to promote the new book by Prof. Vojislav Seselj "The Roman Catholic Criminal Project of the Artistic Croatian Nation". This book, written by Professor Seselj for the past four years in the dungeon of The Hague Kazamat, many of you who do not care much about the fate of the state and the Serbian people will explain where we are today and give you a clear message about the future, how you should take care of your country and your people. I also want to take the opportunity to make my esteemed fellow citizens happy with the fact that the main speaker at the promotion of Professor Seselj's book will be the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, today the most respected politician in our country, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as well as members of the defence team, prominent scientists and professors, who will talk about the Roman Catholic Church project for the destruction of the Serb people back centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1865	Before we continue reporting, please, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 85 of Item 5, work with the starting point of the agenda is extended to 1800 hours. The work continues after 18.00 hours, in line with the needs of the National Assembly because we lost quite a bit of time in the debate on the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1866	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 100 and Article 104. Our political right here is disputed. We, as representatives of the citizens who voted for us, in this House we take care exclusively of the interests of these citizens, not the interests of other opposition parties or parties forming the ruling coalition. In line with the interests of these citizens, we define our policy and attitude towards the issues discussed, looking for an answer, the Republic Parliament. Mr Nikolic, unlike you, who are both the opposition and the government in Serbia, we are principled at any time, and in a situation in which we oppose your election as speaker of parliament, and in a situation where you allow the election to be chosen by the new speaker of parliament, by giving as the current president a contribution to the resolution of the political crisis in which you have partially participated, trusting Vojislav Kostunica, who has proposed the election and given you alleged support in the election for Parliament's president. This is about something else and we're talking about it practically at 10.00 hours. Kostunica's government must understand that today's parliament, and Tadic's government, I agree, the ruling coalition should understand that the atmosphere in parliament has changed and that what was acceptable to the previous assembly is not acceptable to this assembly. If anyone wants our respect, respect, respect, reasoned debate, he is obliged to show respect and respect not to us, but to the citizens of Serbia. We today need to discuss the government law, which the government is harmonising its powers with the Constitution, which was adopted in a referendum at the end of October last year. What kind of authority does this government get by amending the Government Act, what freedom, what rights, what obligations? I'm going to remind you of just one of the adjustments, which the government itself says is who not only leads, but that it also determines politics, so that it doesn't happen to think that the National Assembly is doing it. We have criticised the Constitution and for this we criticise this government law. The prerequisite for a serious debate on the government's law is the seriousness the government needs to point to parliament. This means that there must be ministers, Vice-President or Prime Minister sitting in the benches here, because this is obviously a very important law for them, as soon as they put it on the agenda today, although under the Constitution it was their duty to comply with the constitution by the end of 2008. Which is why it is so important to discuss this issue today, not the matter of the state audit committee, not the election of the governor of the National Bank, not the ombudsman issue, not the issue of the public information commissioner and public information, not the issue of the proposal that we have sent to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and Kosovo. These are the topics we're protesting. Mr. Balinovac can't be our equal talker. Maybe it could be yours, you were in power together, and it's your right, as is our right to use this Rules of Procedure, as long as he allows us such a thing. If another Rules of Procedure is adopted, in which our obligation will be respect, with silent silence, then we will fight against it, but we will never do for this speaker what some other opposition parties have done in the past. It is our right to tell the ruling majority that Mr. Balinovac cannot be a representative of the government who in 2007 wants to believe that society sees a democratic, reform and European government in it. Because of what someone did in the past appreciates it, we don't, we don't appreciate your role in writing information laws, your work on the anti-terrorism law, your comments on our political action during 1999 and 2000. Because our voters are the people who were arrested in the period of your authority, the people who were tried under the laws on which you worked. We are obliged to protect the basic principles on which we insist and what makes Serbia today different from Serbia before 2000. If you, Mr Albianic, want what the representative of your parliamentary group wants, then show it to a specific gesture. You can extend the time until the day after tomorrow, show a specific gesture that you respect this Parliament. True, we were chosen to do something here, but they did not choose us to be silent observers of the ruling coalition's senseless policy, to admire JUL, as you admired the SPS in your previous term. Perhaps someone else voted for you precisely because of this, but our voters did not vote for us to agree to dialogue with Mr. Balinovac. If anyone has a political problem with it, let them come out and say, let the parliament plead if they can, because if we ask for five hours for parliament to plead. We asked during the debate at the House of National Assembly to declare our objection to the Rules of Procedure, for we felt that it could not be moved to the 3rd point of the agenda before we received the report. Most of them threw it away, too. We have accepted the majority's position at that moment, this decision still challenges us in our request to discuss Kosovo, and we want to discuss and we are ready to discuss it. But if you want order in this room, then schedule consultations, make arrangements, we'll honor and return any deal, secure the necessary order in this room, because that's your job. Our job is not to admire Mr. Balinovac, it is our job to say that we have been chosen and that it was a political message from the part of our society that does not want Serbia back in the 1990s. If the government law represents a pillar of Milosevic, in a legislative sense, a pillar of Milosevic's policy during 1999 and 2000, which even the radicals did not want to support, I remember very well that, the Law on the fight against terrorism, did not support the SRS and therefore did not take effect. If it was unacceptable for radicals in 2000, you can imagine how unacceptable it was for us in 2007. The man who suggests it is not a man who can count on our respect and our respect, because you, Mr. Balinovac, do not deserve it, and you have shown by your relationship with us that we are right, by having sex with us, even though it is not your right, and by such a pointless denial of what is obvious. The fact is that here are your coalition partners from the Milosevic period, the fact is that your party friends from the office of Vojislav Kostunica are sitting and those two facts are so great that we cannot accept you as someone who can equally participate with us in this debate. The acceptance of DS, G17 plus and DSS alone obliges them to enable the start of a debate on the government law, but we say in advance - the Rules of Procedure and the right arising from this Rules of Procedure are the weapons we use to oppose this project of creating Serbia in which all the government and all the opposition of Serbia, in which they are all guilty and no one is guilty, Serbia in which it doesn't matter what happened yesterday, Serbia in which one is thought, otherwise spoken, and the third is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1867	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic, and then we have three replicas. Then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1868	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 100, 101, 104, 103, there are several more. The name SPS certainly causes admiration in a large number of people, and I thank Mr Jovanovic, who just said that here a minute ago. As for those who have used the term "Free Milosevic" several times today, several MPs and two MPs, I want to say that as much as they try to make it sound like a noun to them, whenever they say it to me, it sounds like a verb. So please, O dead, all the best, about the people who have made one policy in difficult times for this people, with elementary respect and respect. As for the fact that you are unable to begin the debate on the first law of the First Extraordinary Session in today's day for several hours, it means that we will not allow you to break the Constitution, that we will not allow you to discuss issues that are on the agenda today, and that you would previously ignore the implementation of the Constitutional Law, from the Constitution that would not have been adopted without our sincere and generous help, even though your key sentence in the agitation of that constitution was that it was necessary to adopt a new constitution that would not have been Milosevic. Here, you're not even able to implement your own constitution. No one's stopping you from doing that but yourself. Mr Albianic, make sure that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the work of the session continues, unless you are able to do so, we accept your apology, say nicely, I am unable to chair the National Assembly session because I do not have the capacity, because I am not worthy, because my coalition partners do not have enough confidence in me. Then call Mr. Dulic Oliver, when Oliver says it sounds like Ollie Ren, he's very fond of being called that, invite him here, keep doing this job that you're obviously unable to bring to an end. In addition, offer another vice president who, here are a few, may be more successful than you. Don't blame the opposition MPs for not being effective. It's not black water because the lake is cloudy, it's because it sees black clouds. You're black clouds over Serbia. You're in no condition to bring the elemental things to an end. When you are able to do so, then your parliament will be effective. You said last night, Mr. Albianic, that it is necessary, in order to work effectively, that the MPs of the government come here to vote, and that the MPs of the opposition parties are silent here. That's not gonna happen. We don't answer to any of your voters, we don't represent any of those who voted for you. Those who voted for us say -- torture them as much as possible, in a principled way, ask to enforce the constitution and the law, and do not do what they are willing to do. So, Mr. Albianic, your job is...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1869	Mr. Baralic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1870	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I apologize for one minute and 20 seconds. Mr. Albianic, the most effective way to bring this session to an end is to ask someone to repudiate you, it's not a shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1871	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, then the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm one of those who survived that the president of the Liberal-Jalat Group will also be in power, so I'll survive this when he's in opposition. At a time when Mr. Jovanovic exercised power in this assembly in the way he wanted to, we didn't have anyone's protection. Today Mr. Jovanovic does whatever he wants, knows that he has protection from the white world and that you must not say the word to the lady. This is very interesting, this struggle for the EU's favor and other executions of Serbia, along with each other's struggle, and at the same time in this fight, you, who exercise power, will not be able to apply the funds that the Liberal-Jellied Party has been applying to those who think differently from it. I only went out because of the citizens of Serbia, so there would be no deception. We have objections to this law, but Mr Jovanovic is wrong when he claims that the government wants to usurp some functions by making it clear to itself by law that he is establishing and leading Serbia's policy, it is a constitutional decree, a member I think 116, or who he is, in which it clearly states that the government is determining and leading politics. So, according to the old constitution, it wasn't like that, she was running politics, and now she's establishing and leading politics. I think that the bill is completely justified, and it needs to be implemented in law as well. As far as we're concerned, this debate can continue. We will find objections to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, so that we do not rust until the work of the laws begins. But I really think we can spend all this time working on the bill. I think it's a great deal of blackmail from the Liberal-Jealate Party that this is going to take a while. I think you'll give it up when you realize how counterproductive it is. Prepare a good debate when the debate begins on the bill. Here's your chance to be public. You don't look like politicians or opposition to me like people who have a plan. Now, just tell the rest of us what the plan is. Is that the plan to discuss in this nonsense until they decide what will happen to Kosovo and Metohija? It's a good plan, but it won't be viable. Is that the plan to remove Mr. Balinian from the O.R.? If I were in charge of the government, I wouldn't let you in any way. That would be a sign that the government fell. Is that a sign that the government should fall? Request to take down the government, we're here right now. Except you, Mr. Jovanovic, have no right to ask the government to vote for mistrust since you didn't vote for it. You responded to me when I destroyed the government of Zoran Djindjic, when the parliamentary group, then the DOS, explained its request that our motion to resolve the government of Zoran Djindjic enters the agenda, when the president of the assembly put it on the agenda, and you asked to be removed from the agenda. You went out for this pay phone, it still feels like that pay phone, you said, Mr. Jovanovic, I ask that votes be cast on the point of being removed from the agenda because the Prime Minister's resolution is required by MPs who have not even voted in favour of his election. That was your wise political explanation. So one of your deputies said he was going to tear down the government. I'm telling you, you don't have the right, someone else does, and you sure as hell don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1873	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1874	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic misread. You didn't get it very well. I just hope the reasons for the misunderstanding aren't the same as the reasons that brought you into such a ridiculous political position that you found yourself in after you agreed with Vojislav Kostunica. You appear here as a member of the ruling coalition. Since you're a serious politician, I'm still thinking about you, find the stenograms from the session that I allegedly said what you said, you'll see that's not true. I was very clear, at that point we faced daily requests for a debate to vote for mistrust with the government and ministers of the government. We have given our hand to the opposition, and here is Mr Batic, who has agreed to sit in the parliamentary bench at the request of 30 MPs and participate in the debate to vote for his mistrust as minister of justice. Since it was an obvious obstruction, my response to this obstruction as head of the parliamentary group was very clear. I told you that we would accept a debate about the government's confidence the moment you have 126 MPs, the moment any party who voted for the government deny that support, and that as long as you behave the way you acted, which is characteristic of the SRS, you cannot count on our support to block parliament. As far as our relationship with Serbia's problems is concerned, he is very clear. We point to these problems and talk about them. One of these problems has brought parliament into the position we are in today. If we need to discuss the Government Act, then we need to get a preliminary answer to the question of whether it is more important to amend and harmonise the government law or all those laws that bind the government. Did we get an answer to that question? We didn't. Did we get a message from the government that the government didn't arrive, under objective circumstances, to prepare to amend those laws? We didn't. Did anyone from the government show up? It's not. Here is a representative of a government institution, the Republic Secretariat of legislation, which the government has delegated to participate in the discussion with us. He can't be because of his political past, not for LDP, for someone else he can. That's obvious. We fight it. We have asked for consultations, there is no consultation, and this is our response to this blatant relationship between the ruling coalition and parliament. I repeat once again, at any point in time when the chairman realizes that we are violating any right, we will accept the sanctions, but by this moment, therefore, for five hours now, this Rules of Procedure has been strictly violated by Milojub Albianic, the chairman of the Assembly, at this point as vice president. You haven't informed us where the president is, you haven't informed us if you've made contact with anyone from the government. If the government's so important a question of this law, what is she trying to prove by ignoring our demands? How long are we gonna go with this? As long as it makes sense. If you think our goal is to block the work of the Republic Parliament, then we tell you that it isn't, that's how we've been acting so far. This is the real debate about the Government Act, the debate about the man who represents the government in parliament, what its representative is, that's the government, that's the analogy we're pulling out. The representative has no ideology, the representative does not feel political loyalty to an idea, the representative is a representative of the government that wants to rule, not the country to change. (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. That's why the government makes such strange political turns. These political twists are putting us in a position to protect the interests of the citizens who voted for us. What is our political strength at this point, I can't tell you, we'll be able to measure it after some of the next choices. By these elections, it will be exactly as measured on January 21st, 220 thousand people in Serbia voted to change Serbia, to be exactly the way we want to create it, a modern, European, different from Serbia's Vojislav Kostunica or Slobodan Milosevic. And we're on that course today and there are no compromises. The debate on Kosovo -- at any moment, on the Constitutional Law -- at any moment, on important issues -- at any time, agreeing to Balinovac as a negotiator -- never.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1875	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vucic, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 223, so the right of the Members to be informed. First, I'd like to inform you ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, first one happy news, and then we'll remind the people what happened. Namely, I count that both the SRS and Tomislav Nikolic are here in parliament, but everyone else contributed to their brave struggle and true opposition to the regime, that the two young men who were arrested were released, who were arrested only because they had glued posters that said "Bulevar Ratko Mladic". So the opposition fights for the rights of its citizens, so the opposition fights for the rights of its people. Congratulations to all citizens of Serbia who supported us for the great victory against the autocratic regime. We are so brave, with our determination, with great will, and even by putting ourselves under the bat of the worst anti-Serbian media crews, all day long suffering the worst possible attacks, the greatest lies and dirt, until some of them have given themselves the right to say -- come on, punish the radicals for 10 years in prison, find them a criminal act of calling for resistance to glue the poster. You were talking about national terrorism today. I assume you mean state terror, not state terrorism, because they're different meanings, dramatically different meanings and two syntagmas. So, if you were talking about state terror, this was a real state terror, a real state terror, that because of one poster of someone being forced into prison for 10 years and that you're running a chase against your thieving and criminalized media, like B 92 and some other in Serbia today. As you can see, unfortunately for you, ladies and gentlemen of the regime, freedom in Serbia has begun to dine and you can no longer prevent the idea of freedom in any single place. On the other hand, today I hear that a session of the Department of Conflict of Interest takes a long time, that some are pressuring that the Committee does not make a decision under the law. We wait for that decision, we have statements from the president of the Committee, who made it clear when he did, and when Djelic was not delivering information about his property, let's see if there are any pressures on certain institutions in this country or not. I see it's been going on for a long time, a lot of hours, and I know what's going on. Everyone knows that the right, justice and truth are on our side, on the part of the citizens of Serbia, but the regime wants to be protected; the new, powerful, powerful regime, felt that they could step on it, do what they wanted. (President: you've exceeded your time, Mr. Wolfie. I know, is it 10 years or 40 years old, Mr. Albianic, how many years of prison time do I have to be punished for such a thing to be satisfied with? After I saw him earlier, Mr. Jovanovic at 5.50 you didn't warn him, and you warned me for 3 minutes and 5 seconds. But to inform you, Mr. Albianic, and you, Mr. Jovanovic, I was in the O.R. when you said it, you said exactly as Tomislav Nikolic quoted, literally, and tomorrow I will bring you a stenogram, Mr. Jovanovic, and read very carefully. I have to inform you, I don't know if anyone has informed you, it wasn't in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that it takes 126 MPs to vote for mistrust. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia said it takes 20 MPs to apply for no confidence in the government. You are not God, nor the beating, nor the constitutionman, nor anything like that, that you step on it, and say, "We do not accept it, but we need 126." And you tried to be. We were just looking for a debate, one single debate since 2000 on the mistrust of one minister was, in 2001, Vladan Batic. No one more than the ministers dared, nor did he want to, nor did the government want to show that he had any democratic capacity. These headscarfs have been taking us off our agenda every time. You always took it off our agenda as the most difficult insult, and the absolute peak was - you can't because you didn't vote for them. But we'll quote it to you tomorrow. In any case, if I didn't spoil a good news to people in Serbia further, the authorities showed that she had sinned, that she realized that she couldn't choke the idea of freedom, that she couldn't destroy a different and different opinion in Serbia. If we've done something, at least we've contributed a little bit, and some young men have done a great deal, because they've shown by their courage that they're willing to go to prison, to advocate and to protect the ideas of freedom and the right of people to think differently. I am happy, and I know that Serbian citizens are happy and now it will be difficult for these media stars to explain what happened and what, roughly, we haven't all been shot or received 40 years in prison for glued posters. Every time someone in Serbia stops a different opinion... (Chairman: Mr. Wolf, you've really broken time. )......................................................................................................... As you know, Mr. Albianic, we will side with the free ideas, show in Serbia that freedom comes and the SRS wins.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1877	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Vladan Batic, then the People's Messenger Srdjan Sajn, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1878	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, and I have the right to reply to what Mr. Ivica Dacic said. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I'm advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, from 100 to 105. Here some MPs have given themselves the right to be interpreters, tutors, or mentors of the work of some other MPs and some other parliamentary groups. You just don't have a right to do that. You have no right to lecture anyone about what they should do or not do. We speak on behalf of those citizens who voted for us and on behalf of those who do not understand politics as a rural market, who understand politics as a matter of principle, ideas, beliefs, beliefs and programs and ideologies. There are those citizens who, like us, have no broad capacity. It is a synonym term for political prostitution that dominates Serbia's political scene today. We have no problem that Mr. Balinovac was a member of an opposition party and was then a member of one of the ruling parties, so when she lost the election, he moved back into his former party. That's his client's problem. We don't mind Mr. Balinovac in the government being the head of an institution he represents. That's the problem with Vade and that's the problem of coalition partners in the government. And that's the problem not for his party again, but for those members of other parties of the ruling coalition that accepted it, and that's none of our business. We just want to point out, on behalf of those citizens who have chosen us, that such a man cannot appear before parliamentarians, because we have thus failed the trust of the citizens who voted for us. I mentioned to Mrs. Aregina and of course we've been in the opposite political positions our whole lives. But she was one of Mr. Balinov's closest associates by October 5th. When she could say about him as such the qualifications I quoted from her statement, Milosevic was betrayed by friends, then what do you expect from us? Mrs Plassic mentioned that we should overcome this level of discussion because we are wasting time on Serbia's European path. Mrs Plasic, we are the last country in Europe and in the region to be on that European path. Whether Olli Rehn will accept the continuation of association and stabilisation negotiations. And if he accepts that, again, we are the last, thanks to the government, the previous and the present, to flirt with the fulfillment of its international obligations and the agreement, without meeting those international obligations, will never be concluded. Not because we are malignancies, but because it is an EU imperative. I don't know who you were alluding to when you mentioned they'd file charges with the D.A. and the police for some kind of financial abuse. It was probably an illusion of one of the statements by SRS representatives on the occasion of Mladjan Dinkic. I did my civic duty, and on the issue of the National Savings Bank, where the Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime informed me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1879	Mr. Batic, it's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1880	I have two times three minutes, a replica and a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1881	How can you do it together?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1882	Don't interrupt me. As well as criminal charges against Cypriot couples. Both initiatives have been launched, but I'm not going to take it any further. One more thing, it is not true, and of course it can be politically likable, that those who have not voted for the government cannot launch an initiative to vote against the government or the minister. Of course I can and of course that is one of the main reasons why this post-poto is put on the agenda, because our parliamentary group, once again, would immediately go into a non-confidential vote, because by law it takes 20 MPs, still in force. I was a minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic. Three days discussed my trust, three days. That's fair, democratic. I've been sitting here and people have been making arguments, answering those arguments, voting, and I've been confirmed the position of the minister of justice, so I can look everyone in the eye. So, we appeal once again, Mr. Albianic, to carry out consultations and to end this farce since the session, because we, respecting the public's expressed trust, will persist on this, no matter how long you continue this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1883	According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Shin, and Aleksandra Jerkov, then you, Mrs Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1884	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am talking about Article 27 and Article 225, so I am talking about that the Vice-President of the Assembly is obliged to create working conditions and that this is the only way the Assembly can normally function. I am talking about wanting to use my right to be informed of important issues for my work, because I really have no intention of sitting here until tomorrow morning until 6:00, that Mr. Albianic and Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic prove that he is capable of holding the Assembly until 10.00 in the morning, and Ceda is replicating for that time. I think the LDP has a perfectly legitimate right to set its policy as it pleases. I'd just like to ask them, if they're really going to replicate while this gentleman is here, then we'll have that firm promise and we'll get involved tomorrow when the session's over, and we'll see how it all goes. By the way, I think it's really unserious to block the entire state and block the work of the Assembly for one or two people, no matter what. So much for that. However, in order not to talk about it, I will talk about what I wanted to talk about, about these amendments and the additions to the Government Act. It's about the next one. Then I'll talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure in a slightly different way. Thank you. I am talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because I think it should have been said that the government, because it runs politics and defines policy on all issues, and professional services are only administrative and technical support for all work, then it cannot happen that one professional service in the government defines and manages the policy of Roma integration. More specifically, one of its officials decides and leads a policy in all ministries on how 8% of the citizens of this country will live and in this sense I suggest that the government actually adhere to this new law and do the following: to form a working body within the government to deal with these issues, which will help the government lead the policies and to take the Deputy Prime Minister or another minister into its jurisdiction and indeed define and lead that policy. Because otherwise, we're hostages of individuals from the service, who simply walk from ministry to ministry, walk from village to village of Roma, and say that they are gods, and that they can define the future of the Roma community, and to whom they give five or 20,000 donations, in euros, that they can live in one way or another tomorrow. Here I would just remind the SPS gentlemen - be proud, your members are also headed by the Roma Integration Secretariat in this government. You have quality people, and don't let some respect you that they're big Democrats, that they don't want your staff, your personnel are at the head of the Roma Integration Secretariat. Just enough to tell you that you know, and I hope that the ruling coalition will finally recognize that. Just that much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1885	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Aleksandra Jerkov and then the People's Messenger of Snježana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1886	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting under Rule 98, and I'm asking you to set a break to hold the consultation of the parliamentary groups on this matter. Mr. Balinovac, I'm involved in politics and I'm involved because of people like you, actually to see your back. Of course, at the time, I didn’t think I’d look at your back from the congregation pay phone. What is very important to say is that it is an insult to all the citizens of this country, to some MPs who have been arrested more than 40 times during the time they have spent, fighting against you and your regime, to have you sitting here, to be empowered to be the government's promoter, and it is a tragedy for the DS that you are an acceptable promoter for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1887	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1888	It's hard when you have to break your promise, really. But last time I didn't promise, now I really promise I won't pick up any more, not on the lines, not on the Rules of Procedure. But since my exposure has really caused a series of comments, which are absolutely out of place, I'm going to answer some of them. So, I won't argue with a parliamentary group that claims Serbia's European path is irrelevant, at a time when we know that 70% of citizens consider it the path of elections for Serbia. I'm not going to argue with that parliamentary group, but I'm going to argue with those who say that we are the last on the European road because this and the previous government have led to this. There really is room for controversy, and we are the last on that road for many reasons, and now is not the time and place to discuss it, maybe it is, but then we can schedule a session with such a subject. We have already had a resolution here on EU accession voted for by most MPs, but we can open that topic again and in this session. I fully agree that we are late for a number of reasons, but who contributed to all this would be able to discuss whether General Pavkovic's non-delivery, Lazarevic and others, when personally the police minister defended him and the entire police here in downtown Belgrade for the possible extradition of these generals. Is it that they are not extradited, as long as the past government has not been called or perhaps because reforms in the judiciary have not even begun in some period, and the feasibility study itself, has found that it is one of the weakest parts of the system in Serbia, we can discuss. Surely we all, as much as we could, and as much as we couldn't, have contributed to Serbia being found here, but does that mean that we should blame ourselves for the next 20 years, who's most guilty, who's more and who's less guilty, or who we all want to go together, so that we can work on it further, so that Serbia can find ourselves in Europe. Europe shows a desire to meet us. Are we going to work on it or are we going to discuss who's to blame for the situation we've been in? As for calling MPs G17 plus if they weren't there, it's really something that's a pretty demagogue sentence, and I wouldn't particularly answer to it. I could say that, it seems to me, that the MP who called us right now, has been out of the O.R. for an hour, and that's something I really don't think is collegiate in that way to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware that one campaign begins the moment the previous campaign ends, but I also think that we are all aware that Serbia stands six or eight months and that we really need to move on. Of course, it is allowed from this pay phone to promote its policy, its valuable systems and attitudes, but if we are just going to do so and just talk to our voters, and to keep up with the potential to represent our voters; so we represent our voters, and are we ready to work for the benefit of all Serbia and whether we are going to move forward at last, or are we going to address our voters forever. If we're going to do it, we can discuss it that way, it's not at all controversial, and we'd like to talk to our voters, but we have the party structure, we have party gatherings, we have media, we have other ways of talking to voters. Let's use those possibilities. As far as the system of values is concerned, of course many people have voted for us, and many things in Serbia have bothered us, of course. It bothered us to see Mr. Mihajlovic as one of the ministers. After 2000, when we all believed it would happen on October 6th, it bothered me as a citizen. It also bothered me to see close associate Slobodan Milosevic, Mr. Covic, as vice-president of the first democratic government since 2000. It also bothered me that Mr. Perisic, Mr. Obradovic, and all others who came from Slobodan Milosevic's regime later in the first post-five-octobaric government. But as a citizen who was not active in politics at the time, I was aware that in Serbia, as many compromises are necessary to take a step further. Of course, that line of compromise must always be monitored carefully and the G17 plus is certainly there to follow. You're not the only keepers of fire in this country. Of course we're here to follow, but of course we're here and we're going a few steps further, if possible, rather than digging into our party positions, and that Serbia's been waiting for us all this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1889	The word has been given by MP Jovan Damjanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, to wait a little while until we are exhausted by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1890	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been reported to be in violation of the Rules of Procedure for the work of this assembly all day. I believe that we have been given the trust of Serbian citizens to work in all those areas that are an interesting sphere for our people and our Serbia. We got hold of Mr. Balinov today. There's no man on the agenda. There's no need to talk about him. We have a bill on amendments and amendments to the government and state administration laws, and no one is going to the agenda. We are here half a day talking about Balinovac, and we have received information from Mr. Secretary General of the SRS, Mr. Vukic, that Ban Ki Moon, Romano Prodi and Michael Polt are saying that part of Serbia called Kosovo and Metohija should be seceded. We forgot everything today, and the agenda, and Kosovo, but we are talking about the Balinovac man, which he is present here. Maybe somebody doesn't like me being here, belonging to the strongest political party, the SRS, but I've been chosen by the will of the people and my party. I have the right to be here and to speak. But, please, let's stop, I don't think this is important for the law on amending the law, it doesn't matter to Serbia, let's go because we have a lot of amendments to do, and we should vote in this assembly, and a lot should be done to get Serbia started, and we're dealing with all day about the dead, about the regime, and about the Balinovac. I believe that the trust we have received from the citizens should be respected and we should take the very agenda that has been established, and it is not being discussed all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1891	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1892	Mr. Chairman, MPs and MPs, we from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina have great respect for Mr. Albianić, and therefore now we are joining the request that the chairman of the National Assembly set a break in work and that consultations be carried out, because the fact is that both LSV MPs and MPs of some other parliamentary clubs have numerous objections to Mr. Zoran Balinov's previous 15-year work. We have just heard of Mr Balinovac's work on the rights of members of the opposition parties and the People's Movement "Resistance". I'll just say for a moment that Mr. Balinovac had an observed involvement in the erosion and destruction of Vojvodina's autonomy. As we have seen from the texts of the laws we will talk about in the coming days, Mr. Balinovac continues these tendencies, meaning even stronger, more rigorous tutoring over the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina is still being introduced. And MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina want us to sit in a place where Zoran Balinovac is currently not sitting, that from today or tomorrow, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica is sitting and that he is looking at the MPs in the eyes, to discuss the proposals of the laws and amendments, and I hope that then our work will be much more successful.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1893	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1894	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that we mention our voters because we want not to play their trust and thus gain the trust of other voters, that people see that there are consistent, principled, consistent, which will not play with their electoral will. Furthermore, I said Serbia is the last on its way to European integration. Mrs. Plassic didn't listen very carefully. The government is responsible for this because the first promise of the previous government was -- a quick path to Euro-antlant integration, and we are the last on that path. In the set of laws on the agenda today is the first amendment to the Government Act. Today we are talking about government and its responsibility, or irresponsibility. Mrs Plassic allowed herself to make some kind of adjudication to the non-delivery of four generals in December 2003. Mrs. Plassic, let me tell you something, you can check, today or tomorrow Carla del Ponte is coming, we have reached an agreement with Carla del Ponte that a special war crimes court is being formed here and that the generals are being prosecuted here, and no one has even insisted on handing over the generals. We didn't have that problem at all. Furthermore, Mrs Plasic, and representatives of your party, as you listed some of the former people from Milosevic's regime, both at the federal and republican level, participated in the exercise of power, in that real government, and Tomica Milosevljevic, and Mladjan Dinkic, you had ministers at the federal level, vice-president of the federal government, Mr Labus, etc. So here's the theme government. Also, Mr Tomislav Nikolic said earlier that it is not nice for us to take a seat on Mr Balinovac and why we do not do so when it comes to Kostunica. He won't come. He barely came, like they called him to hand over the death penalty when he was elected prime minister. You'll never see him again. Don't point us to a lack of courage. You heard when the Prime Minister was here what we said on behalf of our parliamentary group. Finally, as Mrs Plassic provoked me, Mrs Plassic, the path to European integration does not lead to the abolition of the media, in which Mr Balinovac played a significant role, does not lead to the adoption of a famous anti-terrorism law. This is contrary to European standards and is not going through Mr Balinovec in Europe. He's taking the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 40 people have been reported in this afternoon's work according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vladan Batic was 35. So we've got five more people in the Rules of Procedure and three replicas. I'm setting a 15-minute break, and I'm scheduled to set up a meeting of the heads of Parliament's first floor groups, to arrange a further work with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do the officials of the committees want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1897	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP parliamentary group participates in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia very actively throughout the day and I must remind you, Mr. President, that unlike you, we have not been away for more hours. So, before you move on to the debate, as you imagined, you must continue the session at the point where it was interrupted at 17 hours for consultation. So, at that point, there were several members of parliament who had been reported for violation of the Rules of Procedure and several members of parliament, and that is what binds you as president. If you want to break that rule, then let us know, and we will respond adequately. We simply participated in the debate before it was interrupted on the initiative of the chairman, whom you authorized to lead the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1898	Mr. Jovanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the list of those reported for violation of the Rules of Procedure is being made, there are more. When we get it, we'll work on it. I would pray, until it arrives, that all those who have reported for the injury of the Rules of Procedure may raise their hands. (Dragan Todorovic: I checked in at 11.30 p.m. All right, let's take it in a row. Mr. Todorovic, replica of 11.30 p.m., in turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I actually called around 11.30 p.m. for a replica and, unfortunately, I had to wait until this time because the other MPs were answering the Rules of Procedure. I didn't mean to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to get a normal right to the replica, and, well, thank God, I've been waiting to replicate and I think it's going to be current, and I've received the word as soon as I've asked for it. First of all, I think I'm going to turn to the DS and somehow notice that you're in a position that you didn't expect to be hit when you signed a coalition with the DSS. Looks like the drone's back on track in the meantime. Looks like he found a new drone. Although, it seems that the drone is unaware of doing the job for the drone, but it works. Here was a red scarf that gave opportunities to the new worker to finish the work for the drone. You've been using and practically doing everything that matches Vojislav Kostunica today, because look at this arrest of the new mafia, the oil mob. So many mobs that have been arrested so far, you don't have anything, say, in the travel mafia, the bankruptcy mafia, etc., you don't have party representatives, and here we've already got a man from the DS. What's his name? His name is Slavko Pavlovic, and it's important that he is from the DS and that he was caught as a thief. That's what's important. Look, you're in a coalition with the DSS and you think Kostunica is a mute. However, he does his job well. The whole of Serbia knows that Malta's future director or first Serbia's tax collector, who was supposed to be from the DS, is caught as one of the top advisers to those who stole oil through fake papers. Now to return to the replica, when it comes to Cedomir Jovanovic and when it comes to what Cedomir Jovanovic, whenever he comes out here for a pay phone, stands out. You're being legal and legitimate, and in the previous election, you've won... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... (Let me finish) About 220 thousand votes. Vladan Batic comes out, and he's got 220 thousand votes behind him, those from the GSS come out, and those 220 thousand come out Canak, and those 220 thousand, so that almost a million seems to have voted for your coalition. Mr. Jovanovic, agree on how much it voted for you, how much it voted for the other representatives in your coalition. As for your opinion on who is a Democrats, and who is not a Democrats, whether or not the SRS is a democratic party to its implementation, it doesn't matter what the citizens think, what the members of the SRS think. Imagine that we only call to 430,000 members, a million and 300,000 voters. Remember how you were expelled from the DS because you were accused of leading the party in an authoritarian manner, because you are undemocratic, because you have misused your function. And not long ago, as I recall, Goran Petrovic was a member of your party, and he also left your party, and also accused you of acting in your own party; Branislav Lecic also. Therefore, you can claim and talk about yourself whatever you want, but the citizens of Serbia know that, and I suppose he knows one part, because that's not such a big problem, members of the LDP, and I think you know them all in the head. Just one more thing to remind you, imagine today's session of this assembly and that it is chaired by your current member, and the former president of the assembly. Could you go out ten times for a pay phone and advertise the Rules of Procedure? And you and your members. I think it's perfectly legitimate and fine, but could it have been at a time when you were the head of the DOS parliamentary group? What was going on in this room? Do you think the people have forgotten? The fact that you forgot what you said when you went out for a pay phone and made it impossible for the SRS' legitimate proposal, which guaranteed the Constitution, which is that the government's right to trust would ask for 20 MPs, you stopped it from explaining that the SRS did not vote for the government, and therefore has no right to ask for a question of her trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1900	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1901	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, simple, true works, a gentleman mentioned in a newspaper called Slavko Pavlovic, has never been a member of the DS, and it is completely nonsense and furniture, and an attempt to use one newspaper text as a means to attack the entire party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1902	Thank you. You have no right to a replica. You've got business, here you go. He's a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1903	Article 104. Should I bring you some reading? I think this is going to be better. He says the arrest of DS candidate for director of the Serbian Tax Administration. The fact that you don't currently have party personnel to run for a place like this, so you're looking for people with qualifications, that's your problem. Here you can easily, when you read the text, make sure that DS counted on it as the director of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1904	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1905	I really pray that what slowly turns into a completely uncontrollable, sythic and truly inappropriate story we don't go on. So please, this is just not true. You can't claim that one headline in the paper is true and therefore the whole public of Serbia is deceived.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1906	Mrs. Kolundjia, at the beginning of my replica, I kind of warned you that some things were happening, and now you seem to be uninformed. We didn't write and publish this paper. That's what you see with your coalition partner. Whether he's a member, whether he wasn't, whether he had any intentions, whether you were going to or not, I'm not going in. You see that with those who have an impact on the writing of the press. You know it well how to conduct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1907	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, I appeal to Article 98. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly, where he says in paragraph 2, "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. "I think it is quite clear that it is necessary to get an opinion on whether this government knows what it is doing, for the simple reason that this type of provocation of the National Assembly and the people who are in this assembly I don't think can be achieved constructively from all of this. I'd like to tell you, in just a few words, one of my life events that reminds me of. When I was at military service, one night, after the lights were turned off, there was a discussion about where the Adriatic Sea came. Some of them represented the Adriatic Sea springing in Boca, and others springing in Kvarner. After a longer debate, there was a fight, where the military police intervened. All of this wouldn't be interesting to me if I hadn't asked myself at one point how an important geographical notion could have missed me -- where the Adriatic Sea springs. I ask you not to discuss this anymore, but to put forward a proposal for a decision on where the Adriatic Sea springs to vote, to decide, and to start doing what Serbian citizens expect us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1909	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1910	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the parliamentary majority, the ruling majority commits, among other things, to everything we have with respect to the political moment and position in which the country as a parliamentary group has done during the previous weeks of the work of the Republic of Parliament. From 12 hours, we ask that the Assembly declare itself, in accordance with Article 98, to a very clear circumstance that makes it impossible for us to move on to the debate on the proposed agenda point, i.e. to move on to the debate on amendments and additions to the Government Act. It is unacceptable for us as a parliamentary group to have the speaker in the discussion with us as a representative, a delegated representative of the Government, the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives, Mr Zoran Balinovac. We were very clear why it was unacceptable for us. Because he is not only a symbol of the policy that, in our opinion, destroyed this country, but the creator and realiser of that policy. As an assistant, as deputy justice minister in the government of Mirko Marjanovic, in the government of the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, he was the creator of the Information Law and the creator of the anti-terrorism law. This prevents the normal course of this session because no one can expect us to behave the way the ruling coalition behaves. If Vojislav Kostunica can blackmail you from DS or you from G 17 plus, he cannot blackmail the LDP. We don't agree to that kind of policy. I ask Parliament to declare itself, and from you, Mr. President, to put, in line with your obligations, our motion to vote. This is not done throughout the day because most cannot confirm with 126 MPs their parliamentary power that is the precondition for voting. Today, at the beginning of the session, you are defeated because your proposals have not passed and no points of the agenda have been united in a single debate. What we consider to be minimal and correct at this time is a practical position, in line with the Rules of Procedure, our proposal to declare before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that other MPs have no problem communicating with Mr. Balinovac, nothing can eliminate the problem we have with him in communication. He speaks to us unauthorizedly, he looks us in the eye and tells the lie. In such a way, insulting exactly how many people voted for us. We take care of these people. If any further argument is needed, we will be very happy to provide it. If there is a need for explanations, judicial judgments, facts that led us to this relationship with the Kostunica government procedure, which we do not agree to and will not be reconciled with. So, put on the vote, in accordance with Article 98, our request to terminate this session, so if the ruling coalition stands behind Mr Balinovac here, as she stood in the government when she voted for him, naming him as director of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, then we will know that the ruling coalition holds more to the former JUL personnel than we did as former partners and, I believe, future partners in all situations where it is really working to solve problems that are a hindrance to the democratisation of our society, modernization, the acceleration of reforms and European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1911	Thank you. Dr Paja Momcilov, MP of the people, Natasa Micic, MP of the people, Bajatovic, MP Tomislav Nikolic and MP Vladan Batic, advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In that order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1912	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I point to an injury, of course, it's a little absurd, but in these late hours, Article 104, Article 1 and Article 105, point one again: "All right at the meetings of the National Assembly is the president of the National Assembly." The viewers following us, who were following today's session, could see that there was a complete collapse of assembly management here today. I think we're all witnesses to that and that's quite clear. It began by breaking the Constitution, imposing a debate on laws that cannot be discussed today if the Constitution is to be respected. What happened after that? Even in the middle of the session, the president checked the quorum, for reasons we don't know, and then the session continued without rechecking the quorum, if it was necessary to verify it at all, and the president simply disappeared. What happened next? With a lot of enthusiasm, counterpart Albianic joined the session and showed quite incompetence in all this and non-compliance. We simply came to a dead end, when the session was interrupted and it was said that for 15 minutes we would wait for some order to be established and, after an hour of waiting, here we are now continuing as if nothing was happening. However, I think it's interesting from all this, that one thing here is for the citizens to shed light on us. Now, citizens can see in action how the so-called democratic bloc works and how it works. At the beginning of the session, we had the tyranny of the majority, who wanted to be proudly forced to counter the Constitution and constitutional views here to discuss something that should not be debated. In the follow-up to the session, we were once again witnessing that a minority wants to obstruct again, I will not say tyranny, prevent the work of this session from continuing. This is exactly the topic, the distinguished lady you're throwing out of the bench, I'm talking about what's going on and how you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, and how you're demeaning the Assembly. What is very interesting, Mr Batic here says that his party, LDP or who, on the political scene, does not want her to be a market participant. Perhaps the word fair or city market is more appropriate, because what DOS 2001 was also the government, which he is proud of, is such a market, with those characters, that we do not speak to the police minister, that I do not speak to General Perisic and the others, Obradovic, that such markets were not and almost will not, hopefully, be on our close stage and be. Now, it's interesting how this group, which calls itself a democratic option, and last night clearly told you Montgomery that this option no longer exists in this country. Listen to the mentor, there's division into patriotics, he says national forces, and there's division into pro-Europeans. But the split was second, I said in the morning, it was divided into patriotic forces and corrupt politicians. The government, by force, Kostunica is corrupt, it is well known to everyone and now one question is raised. I'm going to finish, I'm too far gone, I apologize to the chairman, but for the intrusion, because I have to conduct a dialogue with certain ladies, who here won't come out to say what they have, and then I'm wasting my time. What's all this about? It seems for the simple reason why I should leave and the dissatisfaction of the people to the parliament, to us here, and then here to make sure that those criminals in peace can do the dirty jobs they still have to do, and surely the most important reason for all this is happening and what we are all involved in is the issue of Kosovo. Please, the SRS has made it clear that this could not have been the subject of the debate, which we will discuss below. But we don't use and we don't live on one government official. You show your tolerance, your humanity and what you are: you are an intolerant group of hotheads.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1913	Thanks, buddy. The People's Messenger Natasa Micic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word. After her, MP Dusan Bajatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to respond to all MPs who honor the LDP parliamentary group to make it harder to work today. I appeal to Article 1, the rights and duties of the MP, Article 221, which says it is the duty of the MP to participate in the work of the Assembly. Therefore, today we use our right and authority to prevent the violations of the Rules of Procedure, but also to prevent the violation of the Constitution, which you gentlemen have just brought, even though we were against it and said it was bad. I'm glad to see you back in the O.R., Mr. President, is truly the most well-intentioned, so I have a chance to tell you that you are in one danger, which is being looked at in that you have violated not only Article 27, which speaks of your responsibilities, but also Article 83. The Rules of Procedure, which states that only the President of the Assembly is obliged, or competent, to include in the agenda proposals for acts which are in accordance with the Constitution. So these proposals for acts, the first three, are not in agreement with the Constitutional Law, which has the same legal fact as the Constitution. It is not in accordance with Article 5, which says the newly elected National Assembly will comply with laws concerning the protection of citizens, governors and state auditors during the first session after the government's election. Then a member of the 9th was injured. The constitution, which says the election and appointment of members of the Constitutional Court must be carried out by the end of the first session of the National Assembly at the latest. Mr. President, it's true that we don't have a Constitutional Court, but from personal experience, I am telling you, so, while I was chairman for three years, I had the opportunity to question the legality, or constitutionality of only one decision. It was a decision to introduce a state of emergency. And nowhere was the parliamentary majority, it remained fortunate for the minorities who protected me. So I warn you that you can come to the risk of being responsible only for you and the Director of the Republic Secretariat of Law, Balinovac, who is not here by accident, because another Kostunica's massive government, of 25 members, has not granted us the privilege of attending the adoption of such a law, which is brought against the constitution, but has just sent to us a man who is a symbol of not only the wrong and the destructive policies, but also today a symbol of a policy of dizziness, delay, and, ladies and gentlemen, unscrupulousness. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1915	Thank you very much. National MP Dusan Bajatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1916	Dear fellow Members, I have come to the attention of Article 104(1), which says MPs should address each other with respect. I just want to ask the LDP gentlemen if there's been enough use of Mr. Balinov as a lightninghead in a given situation, as a man who needs to take all the anger. Mr. Jovanovic, a government official, even if he was an aide to the minister, who conducted someone's policy, even if it was the government of Mirko Marjanovic, all along with Aleksandra Vukic, to be a symbol of any regime. If you already want to use the hate speech, which you should fight, because you have united with the Civil League, then we could tell you that you are also a symbol of a regime created in October 5th, which also came into power, ruled and functioned in a radical way. Many projects that harm the Republic of Serbia, the interests of the Serbian state and Serbian citizens, began at a time when you were the Deputy Prime Minister. Also, your participation, mentioned in certain court proceedings, remains unclear. Now let's not talk any further, because it's not about whether you're involved in some things or not. Therefore, the topic is what should be under the Rules of Procedure, the debate on amendments and additions to the Government Act. It is not clear to me that the ruling majority has not realized, at least my impression is that the opposition in this House does not want to be a puppet of the executive government, that we want to impose that the main authority in this country, the main joke and the main face in this country is not the executive authority but that this Parliament, that we want to restore dignity to this parliament. We mentioned here, Mr. President, you had to react, to violate the constitutional law, not to repeat all colleagues, was from the LDP, the SRS, the SPS, a practically complete opposition, including Mr. Chanka's party. You had to react to that. We want representatives of the government to come here and explain why Kosovo and Metohija are still not being discussed here. Obviously, there is no debate on amendments to the Government Act as long as there is a law on the Assembly and many other matters to be discussed. Therefore, you, the chairman or president, have the following problem here: you are unable to dismiss the opposition's objections, for the simple reason that there are no 126 MPs present in the ruling majority. Gentlemen, with these obligations that you have towards so much beloved Europe that you like to go to, so probably your parliamentarians are absent from you, you are unable to rule this majority. You need a lot more than 137 MPs. In order for this work of Parliament to be effective and good, it is little to you. You have to respect the procedure, you have to respect the Constitution and constitutional law and you have to be good with the opposition. Having allowed you to form a government was a matter of good will of opposition parties in this assembly, otherwise we could have obstructed it. We respect that you have 126 and more MPs here, if you have so many, but you respect that we, our voters, promises in the election campaign, after all, for the integrity of us as MPs, want to stick to the Constitution, the law, above all, the constitutional law and the procedure that exists in this assembly. Please note that today's obstruction by the opposition was both legal and legitimate, because we do not want to allow, at the beginning of this parliament's work in the new composition, the executive power to kick us out of the game and this parliament to be, thanks to the partial way of government today in Serbia, thrown into a seal. Please pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1917	Thank you very much. MP Tomislav Nikolic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1918	I only want to make one more statement of the SRS parliamentary group's position. Of course you don't need to hold this session. The agenda is not in accordance with constitutional law. We will also point to you when you injure the Rules of Procedure and in the debates on the bill, if that debate comes at all. But we are not taking part in the lustration of the government's representatives, which is being conducted today by one parliamentary group. We're not so profiled to deal with one man. A team before the Rules of Procedure is completely clear, or Zoran Balinovac will be in the Assembly Hall as a representative of the government or a session will not be. But since we have accepted that the Government has the right to send us its representative, who is acting as Head of the Legislative Secretariat, one who is not satisfied can leave the session. It happened to us to leave the session when we weren't satisfied, and there was no other cure. It was the DS that left 15, 20 sessions, when she was not satisfied with the way it was done in the Assembly. I call upon you once again that we do not humiliate anyone in this congregation and that we do not lute anyone. We're not authorized to do that, not even the law doesn't say, that you brought in and you never had to apply it, that we'll wait here in the Assembly of whoever comes to us, whom we invite to explain something to us, so that we can lute it here. I met Mr Balinovec in the first government of Vojislav Kostunica when he first appeared here. I have now heard that it is a symbol of all the evil and all the terror that has taken place in Serbia in the last 15-20 years. Let's build him a monument outside Albania's palace, if he really is a symbol, but he isn't. The symbols will come, you'll have opportunities. The symbols are ahead of us as soon as the real laws arrive. Mr. Canak and I can't wait for some symbols to appear here in the assembly. It's not compatible with my own morale, nor with the morale of the SRS that we spit and put one man on a pole here today just because we have another plan. Indeed, it is our plan that this session should not be held and we will fight this session because it does not comply with the Constitution, not because Zoran Balinovac or anyone else is present. So I ask the citizens of Serbia, this because of them, there are different us here, to know why we are doing this, when some others are obstructing this session, they have other goals. Our goal is to put the laws provided for by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution on the agenda of the First Extraordinary Session. We will fight for that goal with discussions. I think even now I'm ready to fight for Mr. Balinovec, because I feel so uncomfortable about what you're doing with that man today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1919	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1920	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I speak first of all to you, Mr. President. At the beginning of today's session, I pointed out the violations of the Constitutional Law, as well as many MPs who asked for this session to be interrupted, because its appointment is contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Law. You haven't responded to that at all. By trying to secure the parliamentary majority, you gave the first break of two minutes, then of 15 minutes, and then you interrupted the session, so you found that there was no quorum, so there was no united debate, but there was an individual debate on each of these four laws that were put on the agenda. It's already defeat and it's already completely irrational. So he inherited you in that place, i.e. continued the presidency of Mr Albianic. So, past the usual procedure, he set a break of an hour in an hour. So then we convinced him for three hours to consult the heads of parliament clubs, so he finally accepted it. Then he set a 15-minute break. That break lasted an hour. Then you came back again, and you didn't notify parliament at all what was agreed on at those consultations. The agenda continues. Then we suggested that the government represent either the prime minister, but since he is probably not informed of the holding of a session at which the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Government Act should be, at least the Deputy Prime Minister or at least the Minister of State Administration and the Local Self-Government, who is the Resolute Minister for these topics, Mr. Milan Markovic. None of that happened. We have stated the principle of why we believe that the Government cannot represent Mr. Zoran Balinovac, because it represents one government, one regime we fought against and we cannot accept, the dots don't apply, it doesn't matter, either. No, it wasn't. The one who shut down the media, the one who advocated the anti-terrorism law, cannot be the representative of any government that claims to be democratic in this parliament. One more thing, Mr. Zoran Balinovec's request to be entered in the lawyer's register at the time was rejected. As we find out off the record, law offices have rejected a request for the entry of Zoran Balinovac, a former assistant minister of justice for the SPS government, in the directory of attorneys of the Bar Association. The initiator of the procedure is Zoran Balinovac, a former assistant minister of justice, who has been working in the ministry for years. He cited it in the initiative, etc. For the bar, Mr. Zoran Balinovac wasn't the kind of man to sign up for the lawyer's register. For the new government and, above all, for our friends from the DS, it has become suddenly likened to being the Republic's secretary for legislation or, as it is today called, the Head of the Secretariat for Law. And worse still, to be a representative of the government in parliament, in the National Assembly. And there isn't even your representative, Mr. Milan Markovic, who is obviously a well-octrossed minister, and you agree to all this. Mr. President of the Assembly, again pointing out that this session is scheduled under the Constitutional Law, once again we insist that our proposal be put to a vote to end this constitutionally scheduled session. So if you have a parliamentary majority who will vote that no constitutional law has been violated and if you want to impose terror on the majority of the minority, at least do it officially and let all citizens of Serbia see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1921	Thank you very much. The next MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure, is Prime Minister Vlad Sekulic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 240. Rules of Procedure. If you take a closer look, there's no such thing as a member. Of course there isn't, it's the letter "l" as a lustration. Of course she's not here. If there were lustrations in this Rules of Procedure, Mr. Balinovac, like many others, we wouldn't be able to sit here today, to present us with the government's proposal. We all know very well why Mr. Balinovec should be lustrated. Let's take a look at what Mr. Batic just said, about Mr. Balinovac being rejected when he applied for an entry in the lawyer's register. Let's see what cases the Bar Association refuses to sign up for a lawyer's register. Therefore, pursuant to Article 77(1) and (2). The Statute of the Serbian Bar Association, which stipulates that the Management Board can refuse to enrol in the lawyer's directory if it considers that the candidate is not worthy of trust in the exercise of legal action. Unworthy confidence, according to the Statute, is seen as a candidate whose previous work, other public activities and private life, when this is available to the public, do not provide grounds for believing that law, the Statute of the Bar Association and the Code of Professional Ethics will be respected in the exercise of legal activity. So, who's the person that DS, DSS and G17 plus are sending to explain to us and proposes a government law, which we need to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1923	Thank you. National MP Vlado Sekulić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1924	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have advertised Article 225, and I am also motivated by the joyous skill that Mr. Vukic said at this pay phone, that two young boys were released from custody, and related to the street name and posters that were glued to New Belgrade "Bulevar Ratko Mladic", I have an obligation to direct you to the truth of the whole event. At a session of the city municipality on 28.11.2006, DS was under cover or cloak or their name, they submitted a list for the change of street - Bulevar AVNOJ in Bulevar, Dr Zoran Djindjic. They filed an initiative in front of a group of citizens, they currently had 1,700 signatures, they were talking to the City, and you know that by law they can't, only three years after the death of the deceased can they enter the procedure. They called it - the initiative of a group of citizens who handed over the list to vote, that the municipality of Novi Belgrade gave a proposal to change the name of Bulevar AVNOJ in Bulevar Dr Zoran Djindjic, which was not a little funny, but rather an ugly and abuse of citizens, because it is known to have been collected at checkpoints, under the name DS. According to this logic, the way they presented to us at the time, it turns out that the citizens organized themselves to benefit from the DS to collect signatures, which was a notorious lie. For everything to be true, as it went, it was proposed by Mr. Milenkovic, who is head of the council group in New Belgrade. And when we asked to assign a name and launch an initiative in front of the New Belgrade for the late Milica Rakic, the proposal was unanimously rejected by the G 17 and DS, with the abstention of the DSS, not even entered the procedure, but rather a discrimination against a small child, who died in NATO aggression, escapes from mentioning that she died in NATO aggression. To support all of this, to tell you that the vote is over. The vote was 35, it was DS and G 17, they voted in favour of that initiative in front of a group of citizens, the SRS voted against, the SPS voted against, and your current coalition partners were abstentioned, since they did not even give you support for the renaming of that street. I just wanted to point out that, you know, to break a little bit of that face. As far as I know, that procedure wasn't adopted, nor did it come to the City Hall that was tasked with changing the name. I don't know why the activists rebelled, and here's Mr. Ceda Jovanovic of the LDP. Someone who could have rebelled, it was the one who supported Bulevar AVNOJ Street, but to come to protect the name of Bulevar Zoran Djindjic Street, the boulevard does not even exist in New Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1925	Thank you. MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1926	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the attention of Mr. Nikolic, who, unfortunately, is not in the hall, although I am sure he knows very well what I think of him, both his party and his policy, just as the citizens of Serbia know it. What is important is to clarify our relationship with the Director of the Republic Secretariat of Law, Mr. Balinovac. He is not a lone individual, he is not a victim in this parliament, he is here today in this parliament, demonstrating his triumphant return, seven years after October 5th and a democratic revolution carried out in this country. As a result, our relationship with Mr. Balinovac cannot be interpreted as a relationship with a lonely individual, an unprotected person, a man exposed to criticism by a party that does not care about elementary respect and mutual political relations. That's not true. At no point are we talking about Mr. Balinovec's private life, we're not interested in that. We view him here as a representative of the ruling coalition, which expects us to discuss the government law. If in 2007, the government law defends a man whose policy we had to bring down on October 5th, in order to be in a position today at all to form a government or discuss it, then it's absurd and it's unacceptable for us. We have said so many times in this debate - why do we expect the ruling majority to plead by voting or withdraw their representative. If you had no problem voting in the Government for Mr Balinovec, for Dejana Mihajlov, then show it here in this House, and we will respect the decision of the majority and participate in the debate, and in this debate we will say everything we want to say and we have not been able to say about what we have been discussing for hours, trying to achieve our parliamentary right. Mr. President, I asked you to apply Article 98 to interrupt this session, to put it to a vote, you didn't do it. That's how you hurt Article 3's attitude 100's. Rules of Procedure. You have to give me an answer why you don't. If you're not doing this because there aren't 126 MPs in the O.R., let me know. If you expect us to cooperate with you, as we have cooperated during the previous sessions, then you must open up a space for this cooperation. With Mr. Balinovac, ignoring what he represents, you will certainly not succeed. We're a parliamentary group where people who are arrested for their opposition action sit in their seats. We are a parliamentary group representing the interests of journalists and media who were destroyed during the period of power of Mr Balinovac. You can't expect us to keep our mouths shut about it and to withdraw from it. If today we need to discuss whether we have the right to speak the truth about Mr. Balinovac or not, then we do not agree. We will not keep silent about what he represents, for that is what all the sufferings in which we have often shared the same fate bind us to. This is what the fate of the Europeans, the fate of the Daily Telegraph, the fate of Radio Index, Radio TV B 92, of all independent media in Serbia, which are sanctioned under the law written by Mr Balinovac. That's what we're bound by the fate of 40,000 arrested... (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... Young people, 40,000 students in the 2000 period, who faced the threat of terrorism law that Mr. Balinovac was trying to protect the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. Thank you for understanding, for not interrupting me. If you give us an explanation, we'll accept that argument. If you continue to ignore it, we will continue to do our job, to represent the policy we are in parliament for. Explain why you do not put our request to the vote and why you refuse to plead on the violations of the Rules of Procedure that we point to. We do not want this parliament to turn into a circus, but we do not want this parliament to turn into a place where it will be freed from all responsibilities by Vojislav Kostunica and his government, which do not give a single answer to the country's life problems and face it, among other things, today as well as during previous discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1927	You're the one who called for article 98. The Rules of Procedure and I will read it. The president of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when he determines the lack of quorum at the National Assembly session until the quorum is secured. The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly in order to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. That's what we did. The President of the National Assembly shall terminate the work in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the continuation of the National Assembly session. I don't see any reason to interrupt the work of the National Assembly and move on. According to the Rules of Procedure of Free Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1928	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have reported for breach of Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure. Mr Tomislav Nikolic said earlier that he was ready to fight over Mr Balinovac, because of everything he said about him. I assume the threat was addressed to the LDP parliamentary group. We are not afraid and will not stop fighting for the right to act in harmony with the Rules of Procedure in this congregation. I'm really sorry Mr. Nikolic isn't here. It is simply amazing that Mr Nikolic performed as the ruling majority's lawyer and accused the LDP of obstructing the assembly's work. He forgot that the LDP reaction occurred the moment Mr. Balinovac came out for this assembly pay phone, when he dropped the fire on the LDP and denied us the right to plead on it. No one protected us at that time, or anyone took his right, and no one said that they could not treat our MP group that way. There is only one thing I would like to say to the ruling majority MPs, and above all to the MPs of the Democratic Party, who have the opportunity to behave differently in this assembly than members of their party in the government. During the year 98th and 99th, the government dealt with the media in the most brutal way, countless rulings with millions of amounts were brought against the media. Do you know who was present at these trials as a supervisor, or as someone who kept an eye on the fact that there was no coincidence that the judge would not condemn the media. That was Mr. Balinovac. Out of countless of these judgments I will read to you only one, which was brought against the Daily Telegraph and which was worth a million and 200,000 dinars. She applied against the Daily Telegraph, on behalf of the Yugoslav Women's Union, Bratislava Morina, the Serbian refugee commissioner. She said in the report that the list called for the violation of the constitutional order of Serbia and the SRJ and endangered all citizens, women and children, by publishing on the other hand an ad by the student organisation "Resist". That's Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1929	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Milena Stankovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by the MP Vjerica Radet and the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the LDP expert team has done a research on the verdicts made. Article 225, the MP shall have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. We did this little research and the results were very impressive. In fact, it turns out that between March and April 2000, the authors of one text we downloaded from the NUNS site, Dragan Banjac, said only three penalties under the Information Act fell in March, as the authorities focused on transmitters and on the closure of stations due to the lack of a frequency permit. But that's why he was repaired in April when six sentences were imposed, etc. What we want to mention on this occasion is that Mr. Balinovac was very often present at these trials and made it impossible for judges to do their job in a safe way, because in fear of possible retribution, which could later occur, they cut off such drastic punishments as you know very well. Here is, for example, the "Kikindska novine", on 31 March 2000, at the request of Rajko Popovic, the editor-in-chief of the local list of RTS "Comun", a misdemeanor against the "Kikindski novine" was initiated on the previous day of March. Judge Nada Petrov heard Duško Francski, director of the House of Youth from Kikinda, as a responsible person, and Željko Bodrožić, editor-in-chief, who sued Popovic for photography - photo montage in 79. "Kiking newspapers", since 17 March and the text titled "Balancero". On the basis of the Public Information Act, bear in mind that in 2000, Judge Petrov punished the "Kiking News" with 280 thousand dinars, and most of the fine, 150 thousand dinars, belongs to the founder, the Public Enterprise of the Youth House. Dusko France's director is fined $60,000, and editor-in-chief Zeljko Bodrožic with 70,000 dinars. So much for that. How serious is the gentleman to present today's draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act. Not to touch the law itself now, which we will talk about when the time comes, which in the whole series of provisions violates the Constitution, which you, ladies and gentlemen, all together except us, the League of Social Democrats and the minority, have brought in such a shameful way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1931	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1932	Mr. Maras, you said that when Mr. Balinovac, and as you said, attacked your parliamentary group, it was still in the morning, at the beginning of today's working day, for the sake of the public, I must remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dragan Todorovic and I and Ms. Natasa Jovanovic reacted very sharply. All three of us drew attention to Mr Balinovac that he could not address the MPs in the way it was in the afternoon, but only to be able to represent the Government when it comes to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Government Act. Also, in fact, Tomislav Nikolic said he was ready to fight for Mr Balinovac. Of course everyone in their right mind understood it figuratively, that Toma Nikolic didn't mean physically to fight anyone in this House. We, and Tomislav Nikolic, and our entire parliamentary group, and the SRS in general, have always fought for our own and for other rights in a democratic way, we gentlemen have never burned the Assembly, we have not stolen images from the Assembly and we have not lynched people, we have, I repeat, fought for this assembly talk, at public meetings, in the media, when and how much we were allowed, fought in a democratic way for fundamental human rights. You today have been breaking the Constitution in an act guaranteeing fundamental human rights and I have turned my attention to it during the day of one of your MPs. And when you talk about closing, of course, I have no intention of being Mr. Balinovac's lawyer. Someone here said he couldn't have been entered into the bar. I don't want to talk about the way people signed up for the Bar and the way they were at the time. It'll be a subject of another day. I would just remind myself that in 2003 Branislav Lecic, then the minister of information, closed the TV "Mars" in Tristenik because Tomislav Nikolic hosted the show. That he closed the "Identity" list, because for the horoscope sign, I end in 10 seconds, and for the horoscope sign that was the sign of Zoran Djindjic said something bad would happen to the born in that sign, which was the week before Zoran Djindjic died. So that's why the media is closed, and worst of all, at the time Branislav Lecic's doing it, Serbia had no information law at all. So, absolutely, without any legal basis, without any legal act, and in this way you gentlemen are experiencing democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1933	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Ivica Dacic, then MP of the people Nebojsa Rangelovic, and then by MP Slobodan Maras and MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1934	I have already said that the SPS generally believes that the adoption of amendments to the Government Act should not be on the agenda today. Article 161 The Rules of Procedure speak of an emergency procedure. Only laws governing issues and relations can be adopted following an urgent procedure due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws under urgent procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. I don't believe that non-adjustment of the Government Act can cause any adverse consequences. In addition, the previous Government Act was passed in 2005. Also, I think Mr. Balinovac was present in this room at the time or was one of those who participated in the preparation of all this. There's a very strange thing out there today. Who's in the debate on this? The debate includes members of opposition political parties. I haven't heard a single nice word from the ruling majority's representative for the man representing the government in this case. Do you expect us to praise and defend your government representative, whom you have chosen? The first corner and the first difficulty in the work of the Assembly you welcomed and you fled as mice from the battlefield. You escaped because you must not answer your word, to say one good word to the man chosen by your government, when, Mr. Balinovac, how many days ago you were elected, was there anyone against your appointment as director? Go out and say, "We stand behind Mr. Balinovec, because he's the director of the Legislative Secretariat, or you don't stand behind Mr. Balinovec, so change him." What the opposition is looking for, and us, as part of the opposition. You know, Mr. Ristic, the SPS is always power, if anything, at least you can learn from us, because you're taking personnel from us and you can learn from us, because that would never happen to us like you. After all, you didn't just have Mr. Balinovac, wait, whose name was Perisic, was he Chief of General Staff Slobodan Milosevic? After all, who was Nebojsa Covic, was he an SPS official, did Bane Ivkovic beat the students of "Resistance"? Did Bane Ivkovic beat the students of the Resistance, so you held him like a little bit of water on his palm to protect your previous government? Dusan Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic. Dusan Mihajlovic was probably a bigger man than Balinovac. Therefore, the reasons for challenging this session, as far as the SPS is concerned, are not in Mr Balinovac, but in having agenda points that do not deserve to be held today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You're the ruling majority, you're the government, so act like a government. What do you care what a party with 16 MPs or 10 MPs is looking for? You're asking the opposition to give up the dialogue? We won't give up, we'll use every right. It is ideal time, 18.50 hours, of course, I am grateful to Mr. Albianic and I am grateful to Mr. Dulic, and I suggest that he extends the debate every day during this assembly, because you ladies and gentlemen have taken everything you have in the media space of Serbia. Therefore, there are 150 euros on Pink and RTS for one second. You are present at Dnevnik, there are no other parties, and you want the opposition with the ovations to support every proposal you make. You can amend the Rules of Procedure, you can abolish the opposition, you can say that the opposition should not attend the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sessions, it would probably be the most appropriate thing for you, but I told Mr Dulic, and I remind you from the DS -- every government is just a future former government, don't do to others what you wouldn't want them to do to you or what you allegedly fought against. Please, will someone from this power step out and defend the government and the man representing the government. Don't expect us to defend your government. We only defend Balinian because he used to be ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1935	Mr. Dacic, you're talking five minutes and 40 seconds about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, but remember that we've given you all the time to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1936	But I think I'm the only one who really talked about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, I'll be in touch after an hour again, but we haven't moved on to a discussion about all this. Please, where are the DSS representatives whose candidate this is, who was elected? Where are the DS representatives who voted for him at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Where are you? Come out and tell me -- how could Mr. Balinovac be good enough to appoint him at the government session, and here you are ashamed to defend him? Therefore, I hope someone will say a good word, and Mr. Balinovac, since we will soon come to power, you and then you will be the head of some secretariat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1937	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic and MP Vladan Batic, and the replica was sought by MP Slobodan Maras and MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1938	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for breach of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and again point to a violation of article 98 and a violation of article 100, and I ask the President of the National Assembly not to interpret the article on an arbitrary basis. The complex process of interpreting the right shall be approached when the legal act is not clear enough, and the position of Article 3 of this Rules of Procedure is quite clear and shall be explicitly stated in it - the President of the National Assembly shall interrupt the work of the National Assembly and, in other cases, if the National Assembly so concludes. So, not if it is concluded by the President of the National Assembly, but if it is concluded by the National Assembly. And of course, since it is a session interruption, it cannot be voted on when voting is due, but immediately after the proposal has been tabled, so I would therefore ask that the LDP proposal be followed, that is, we insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1939	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1940	Mr. President, we've advertised the injuries of the Rules of Procedure countless times. You have an obligation to give us an explanation. We're saying there's no quorum in this room again. You can now say there is one, if you'll give me an explanation of my claim that he's not here. Then I ask that parliament declare it, and then you will see if there is a quorum or no quorum, that we do not play hide and seek. For an explanation, Mr. President, I am now addressing the citizens of Serbia, those who have not had the opportunity to attend the session of parliament from 10.00 hours. So, respected citizens of Serbia, today are on the agenda of the Law on Government, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Civil Servants and the Law on the Budgetary System. It's all about changing and supplementing those laws. These laws are on the agenda because they need to comply with the new constitution. The deadline for their alignment with the new constitution is by 31 December 2008, not by post-poo today. Two days ago, the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly was completed. By the end of the first regular session, according to the constitutional law, a constitutional court was to be established, to elect a state prosecutor, to be elected ombudsman, governor of the National Bank, a media commissioner. You didn't remember, you should remember something. I know you heard, but you don't remember anything, and you should be ashamed that your ministers voted for Zoran Balinovac, Dejan Mihajlova, should be ashamed, because that way you kill Zoran Djindjic again. You can't do that. So that's one of the reasons why it takes all day for the controversy to take place on this subject. The second reason is that the Prime Minister was appointed director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Mr. Zoran Balinovac, a man who before 5 October was a member of JUL, adviser, assistant and deputy minister Arandel Markicevic and Dragoljub Jankovic. And it's no big deal, but it's terrible that the same man was a supervisor in the public information law proceedings, when they were rigorously, drastically punished and shut down by certain media. You elected this man Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, and this man today represents the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our MP club just doesn't want it and can't accept it. Any of the people who advocated democratic change in Serbia, if there is little morality, honor and conscience, should not accept it. No chair is worth all those wishes, hopes, aspirations, ten years in the streets of Belgrade in the winter, ice, snow, in front of the cordons, pendejos, tear gas. Because of people like Zoran Balinovac, it's time to be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1941	Just to give an explanation to MP Vladan Batic. So at this point in the O.R., there's a quorum to work with. The People's MP, Maras Slobodan, called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1942	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Radeta, it seems we're not getting along very well. I reported first of all for the violation of Article 113 during today's debate, and I had to point out that the MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party, after the attack by Mr Balinec, where he tried to take away our right to tell us what we wanted about him, did not try to protect or react in accordance with Article 27 of the National Assembly. That's what you did, and I thank you for that, but it's none of your business. I'd like to say one more thing. Dr. Rangelovic, who spoke before me, from the Liberal Democratic Party, Mr. President, you owe him an explanation in accordance with Rule 100 of this Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3. Earlier, he quoted Article 98(3) as saying that the president of the National Assembly would interrupt the work of the National Assembly and in other cases if the National Assembly concluded it. He asked you for an explanation, you disobeyed it, so please answer him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1943	The word is Mr. Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1944	Finally, a real man in the right place. Welcome, Mr. Grouchy. It looks good on you. Several members of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, are violating the permanent. Mr. Balinovac came out, but let me say, I don't question his honor. He resigned a few days ago to this same place, the director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, to which the government appointed him three days ago and announced it in its Official Messenger. As announced, Ministers Milan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Dusan Petrovic, most warmly congratulated him, so it would be nice to say here - leave the man alone, he works here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure's work. If you think he is not recommended for any serious job by being a co-worker of Ministers Jankovic and Markicevic or what was happening at the time of the government of Mirko Marjanovic, it is a matter of historical and political assessment. We'll see. It seems to you today that this is how different tomorrow is going to be. Do not boast that some people, the Law Chamber of Serbia, which she was very embarrassed about, did not allow her to register and thus denied them the right to work. You want me to mention some names: Rodoljub Jamic, Dražimir Marusic, Gorica Gajević. Let me tell you something else, I'm very pleased that I've been very helpful in helping these people start doing their job as lawyers. It doesn't matter, what some of them have checked, it's a matter of their own decision, but it doesn't make any sense that the Serbian Bar Association, as a Czech association, prevents people from living off their work, in line with the qualifications they have and the judicial exam they passed. I would never brag about that. Let's go back to 10.00 hours, and now it's 1900 hours. So you haven't moved away from the beginning. You have no courage and no strength to direct this session into the desired course, because, and they are right colleagues, you do not have enough number of MPs to function. Why did you set a voting day yesterday when we were able to vote all those amendments and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure and others? Because you didn't have 126 MPs. We are here, except for Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who is officially absent at the moment, all SPS MPs and other opposition parties are mostly there. You need 126; whoever gets in the wheel gets in the legs, trusts. You don't have enough people to make decisions about the state. You can't borrow MPs, there's no backup players. You are used to, when there is not enough, shutting down a few of them from parliament, and introducing citizens, and then invent Banet Ivkovic. From what I hear, some of them are now playing over his fate. And let me tell you, when you had a hard time and when you needed it, it was good for you, and then you stepped on it like a last cigarette. The other day, your favorite arrived, made a statement in a newspaper about men wearing thongs. That's where you brought Branislav Ivkovic. And he didn't deserve any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1945	Thank you, according to the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Verica Radeta, and then the replica of Ms. Stankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1946	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, relating to the discussion, or replica of Mr Maraš. It was obviously a misunderstanding. I understand that Mr. Marash said that no one stepped in to protect the rights of the MPs. I intervened and said we did it, a few MPs from the SRS, which he later agreed to. That's not a problem, but I'm quite certain that the underlying problem is the irregularity of the appointment of this session, which concerns Article 5. Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's what MPs should be discussing. This is what the congregation majority would have to take into account and it is truly surprising and just amazing that today, when this way and this much debate is being debated, and we fail to begin the agenda, that out of the congregation majority here, so to speak, and there are no MPs, especially those belonging to the party of Vojislav Kostunica, around whom the government of Javier Solana is gathered. That's why, in fact, we're in this situation today. I remind the public, first of all, that someone here today was wondering why no one explained to us why it was the first break, a long time ago it was, at 10 or 10:30, when we were just beginning to work, when the president of the DS parliamentary group, what was not said here, submitted a request for the merger of three points of the agenda. It is necessary to make such a decision, 126 MPs who would vote in favour of the proposal. What is the problem with the ruling majority? Why were they unable to provide 126 MPs? Does this mean that the government of Vojislav Kostunica no longer has support in this House today? I don't know, we'll know when it's going to be voted on by some next law in the voting day. In any case, it is the responsibility of the congregation's majority which is why this debate is going in this direction today and which is why we are discussing something that the congregation majority must have in mind, and that today we are discussing, I am finishing, I am looking at the clock, otherwise thank you, therefore, what we were bound by the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. Just one more sentence, I just did a lapus when I said which media Branislav Lecic was shutting down. True, TV Marsh is from Valjev, it has been shut down and paid a fine of 500,000 dinars because they did not transfer the funeral of Zoran Djindjic, TV Tristenik has been shut down because Tomislav Nikolic was there, now working again under the name TV Logos. And the National Journal has been shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1947	Thank you very much. Replica, Ms Milena Stankovic, then according to the Business, MP Ivica Dacic, and by the Rules of Procedure, National MP Nenad Canak and MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, I am taking this replica to several presentations of the MPs, I simply could not come to the opportunity to speak on the basis of a replica because many MPs appeared in the Rules of Procedure. So, to be clear, when we're talking about Mr. Balinovac here, we're not talking about Mr. Balinovac as a citizen, a God-fearing intellectual, as a man who is attached to the ideas of Vojislav Kostunica, but as a politician. So every politician for his work bears responsibility. All of us citizens are being tried on the basis of our work and based on the results of this work. The results of your work, Mr. Balinovac, are devastating and I really don't want to talk about it anymore so I don't repeat myself. It is our right and our duty now, here, in this House, to ask this question of responsibility. When we ask that question of responsibility, we do not only speak for ourselves, but also for those people who stand behind us. As you know, it's 220 thousand people, but a lot more, who must have found themselves in what we're saying right now, and they're very pleased that we're doing it; they're responding, they're sending us messages, so you know. What's very important is that you have to admit responsibility, but not just for yourself, but for those who sent you here, and for those who put up with you here, and not to defend you all day. What I also want is what I insist on, Mr. Dulic, to respond to the advertising of Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic, LDP MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1949	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1950	I'm sorry, it hasn't been an hour, but there's something I have to say in front of the journal, because the citizens in the journal are going to watch you, let them watch us. I'm kidding, of course. In this whole debate, I forgot to point out one principled reason why the SPS is against unilateral adoption and separate adoption of the law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because in the past term we had great differences between parties, but we had a unique request from all political parties that there was no law on government before the law was passed on to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That was said by Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic at the time. We all forgot about the law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we need a government law. That's why we can't vote, we didn't vote then, because we didn't think it was possible to separate the passing of these two so important laws. Once again, I ask you, no one has answered my request and cry out, indeed, from the representatives of DS, DSS, G17 and New Serbia, to really have someone come out here and say something and to challenge the views of Cedomir Jovanovic and LDP, who challenge the man the government has appointed as its representative. It's the biggest insult and humiliation for one government or for one party to come out and tell you - that yours can't speak, and I'll continue the session only if that one changes. And you keep your mouth shut. Why don't you shut up? I'd remind you of the next thing. This is "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". When did he get out? He came out on May 25th, on Youth Day, and that's what Mr Meho Omerovic remembers. So there is a written solution to the appointment of the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives. Zoran M. Balinovac is hereby appointed Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. This solution to be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia 24 No. 119-2691/2007-1, in Belgrade, 24 May 2007, Vice-President Mr Bozidar Djelic. So this really is an entirely unnatural situation. You choose a man, you're ashamed to choose him, you won't pull him back. This is the people of the parliamentary crisis that you've entered, and you're not even aware that you've entered. You no longer have a parliamentary majority on whether Balinovac should sit here or not. That's why we said you didn't need any opposition. You're enough for yourself. If you think this was your beginning, this was the beginning of your end. The longer we do, the faster that end may be.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1951	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Nenad Canak and then by MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Because look, what's happening in the National Assembly absolutely destroys the integrity of this institution, destroys the integrity in a very simple way. A few weeks ago, I spoke to this same speaker about how happy I was that the parliamentary majority, made up of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party, were elected by Mr Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament Speaker. The reason was very simple. We then got a type of majority that had a basic ideological cohesion and some kind of ideological basis on which to build some kind of unity of the executive government. Now we've come to the point that there is no such unity and cohesion. Now look, this parliament has the opposition of the ruling Social Democrats Vojvodina League, the Liberal Democratic Party, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, which are on the one hand, and on the other hand are the Democratic Party, G 17 plus, the Democratic Party of Serbia and of course the JUL. So, when we have such a set of relationships in society, how one can expect to create any constructive atmosphere in which anything constructive will be solved, it will draw any conclusions, which will be translated into legal regulation, and thus the Assembly will carry out the work that is intended for it. Are we gathered here to spend taxpayers' money or are we gathered to pass laws, to bring budgets, ladies and gentlemen? Jun's on the threshold, July's on our ass, and we don't have a budget. I'm asking you, if this tendency, let me put it that way, continues, where it will all take this congregation and this country. Or is it something else entirely? Or is it the fact that you need to have a government that won't show up here? In this chair, I asked Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica if he could look anyone in the eye. Apparently none of the ministers can look anyone in the eye anymore, so now they're sending state secretaries. What's gonna happen next? Who will be the next one to look us in the eye, or will they not look us in the eye? So we came simply to the parliamentary crisis, which is the highlight of the paradox, to agree with Mr. Dacic. Serbia really didn't deserve that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1953	Thank you very much. National MP Ivan Andric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1954	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226, as today has begun. We're back to square one. The LDP's intention today was to point out the inadmissibility of the solution for the government's proposal to be a man whose biography we talked about today. I'll take the opportunity to repeat some basics and repeat another request. So, the LDP said that Mr. Zoran Balinovac was a member of the DSS, then moved to JUL, then served as adviser to Justice Minister Arangel Markic, to become assistant Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic from there. As assistant Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic, he was in charge of implementing the Information Law. He had a direct impact, and for that we got confirmation in today's debate, he was directly helping to enforce that law. To what extent, it doesn't matter. We've read a lot of statements here today, and we've had enough of the MPs, who his contemporaries were then, to get confirmation. Then, as a promoter at the Faculty of Law, as a lecturer in the Civil-Process Law class, instead of one of the professors who got fired for adopting a new Law on the University of 98, Mr. Balinovac replaced the professor with circumstances. We're so sure of that because this professor is Goran Svilanovic. Then Mr. Balinovac was one of the creators of the famous anti-terrorism law or terrorism. The law was intended for political opponents in 2000. The law envisioned great penalties for all who are engaged in opposition action, even to life sentences. So the only question we asked, please listen to me, is whether most in this assembly knew about this biography of Mr. Zoran Balinovac. To this day, here we are after 8 to 9 hours of debate, we have not received an answer. When it became clear to us that we would not even get a deal from any of the parliamentary majority, we, Mr Dulic, asked that Article 98 be fulfilled. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You're right, the first two attitudes don't apply, or the second position on the consultation was used, but he didn't give the result. Those consultations didn't score. It's unacceptable for us to be here, as a proponent of the government, who claims to be democratic, to be the man we've been talking about all day, and in doing so, no one has denied us in the slightest of things. The only one who volunteered to defend was himself and then accused us of lying, and so we came to the point that we were forced to quote statements, to chase witnesses and to talk all day. Today, eight hours later, none of the things we said were denied. The ruling majority decided to sit down and wait for something to happen. I don't understand what's supposed to happen. Our intention was to warn, to ask a question. That question is not answered. The president of the National Assembly, or chairman who replaced him, did not want to hold a vote. If the consultations do not result, Article 98 provides for the Assembly to declare this. You didn't even let that happen. I urge you, Mr. Dulic, once again to allow the National Assembly to plead and that the majority who did not want to, or did not dare, or had no reason to defend the arguments that we pointed out, then the Assembly decided how we would get out of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1955	Thank you very much. Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go. So, in the order of the announcements -- MP Cedomir Jovanovic, then Dusan Bajatovic, then Aleksandar Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1956	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 100. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and that of its work, in which the President is obliged to offer a clear explanation of the remarks of the MPs on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Dulic, unlike you, even though you are Parliament Speaker, we are only MPs, the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups have none here in the O.R. and most of the MPs who make up the ruling coalition. We've been in this debate since 10.00 hours. We have done so with the hope that our suggestions will be accepted because they are extremely well-intentioned and that in such a way the normal work of parliament will be possible, after the completely unacceptable beginning of today's session, because the essence of the message that we have faced through the agenda that you have suggested that in Serbia there is actually and should be exclusively the government of Vojislav Kostunica and no other institution, because the government, or this Vojislav Kostunica, is actually capable of doing the work of everyone else. We don't get hours from you and from the person you've authorized to chair the session to respond to our parliamentary demands. That answer is not given not because you do not know how to do this job but because you knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure and thus deny yourself and everything you said by running for president of the Serbian Parliament. We did not vote for you at the time because it was an expression of our opposition to the way the ruling coalition was formed and according to the role of the ruling coalition, because of the way it was formed, intended for the Serbian Parliament. You have, in fact, presented yourself as another official of the government of Vojislav Kostunica in your relationship with the office of Parliament president today. You decided that, protecting Zoran Balinovac, JUL and DSS, a man who dealt with the media and prepared a deal with the Serbian opposition in 2000, you decided to protect him and sacrifice a normal relationship with the LDP parliamentary group. If you do not put, in accordance with Article 98(4), at this moment, to vote in front of the Assembly, our request for the session to be terminated, because the government as its representative has appointed someone who cannot be our talker, unless you put that request to the vote, you will violate who knows which time today's Rules of Procedure, but we will leave the session as a protest, not according to JUL's staff, not according to the DSS, but according to you who are giving them the legitimacy to do so to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1957	Thank you very much. I will inform Mr Jovanovic of Article 4, which is that the president of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases if the National Assembly concludes it. I do not believe that there is a reason for the interruption of the work of the Assembly, and this is why the Assembly will continue to work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1958	My former president of the Federal Parliament, who would probably do this job perfectly, Mr. Shami, says, "Come on, for nothing, let's get this over with." But, I'm sorry, Mr President, I've come forward on official duty, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 161, Article 103, Article 103(1), Article 104(1). He does not want the ruling coalition to respect the opposition's real intention in this parliament. They're champions, the ruling majority. They managed to unite at the same job, though with different motives, Ivica Dacic, Tom Nikolic, Cedo Jovanovic and Nenad Canka. Nobody believed it until yesterday. It is not clear to the gentleman that we do not want, pursuant to Article 161, to pass an emergency procedure law which, by its consequences, does not cause any riots, no damage, no problems in the Republic of Serbia. The fact that the gentlemen consider power as an exclusive division of prey, which they want to see executive power as the only authority in the Republic of Serbia, so it is not important to the Constitutional Court, and the second item of the agenda is the law on state administration, which, for example, requires a debate on the status of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. That's right, Mr. Chanak, right? And similar projects that follow us. So, we don't want, the motives are different, that already at the first next session, after the constitution of the National Assembly and the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as it was chosen, and we all know well how it was chosen, we don't want the executive authority to authorize us. We insist on respecting the constitutional law. Well, please, this constitution was brought to the widest consensus by all political parties seemingly with barely 52-53%. Mr. President of the Assembly, today I read it in the Courier, already talking about changes to the Constitution. I'm not accusing him. He's part of the ruling majority. Will Mr. Kostunica agree to change the constitution because there is no solution, because we haven't been able to agree for days on what laws we should first pass. Please, it says nicely in the Constitutional Law that should be the order in the legislative activity of this Parliament, in its next sessions or at the next session, if we can bring it all together. So, as far as the SPS is concerned, and just one more thing before I figure it out. The truth is, gentlemen, there's a lot of media control today. The media isn't shutting down, but they're effectively, lobbyistly and financially controlled. Let's try to cause an affair in our printed or central electronic media. That is not possible unless you have the consent of the ruling majority, no matter what your arguments may be. Therefore, the former government, which was run by the SPS and which I belong to myself, was a small kitten, very clumsy in the way it shut down the media in relation to the control that was established today, gentlemen. That should also be the theme of this House. Is there media freedom in Serbia today or is media space very controlled, when you want to talk about it. To return to the SPS position, please, we want to stick to the Constitutional Law and the Constitution, and all the laws we voted for in the previous period, and above all, the Constitution. Please understand, every good authority has the opposition. I warn you again, with 130 votes, as far as you have here, since you will travel a lot, and we together with you, because democracy and the journey to Europe are not monopolised things, you must be very good with the opposition in this House, so that this power of yours, so much wanted and loved executive power, will function properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1959	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1960	Mr. President, I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. As a MP today, like everyone else, I heard a lot of information about Zoran Balinovac, and I would like to get more information, as Zoran Balinovac is definitely the name of Zoran Balinovac and numerous Belgrade judges for violations, when the proceedings against the media started under the so-called Seselj Law, adopted on 20 October 1998. As a member of the IT team, Balinovac was also part of the informal headquarters, headed by former Minister of Information Aleksandr Vukic of the SRS and Uroš Šuvaković of the SPS, as well as members of the DB, police and editors of state media. According to numerous judges, Balinovac was regularly brought to Masarikov Street on a fellow judge. Even though he had to put pressure on judges who didn't have to judge the Information Law, the task of Zoran Balinovac was also to make the final decision that the media and at what cost would be punished. According to the Law on Informing Papers "Today" he was fined seven times between March 1999 and August 2000, to a total of 5.6 million dinars, or about 200,000 German marks. The law did not bypass almost any Belgrade independent media, meaning "Dnevni Telegraph", "Plas Public", "Blic", as well as "Monitor", "World", "The Weekly News", "The Real Man", "Pancevac", "The Sombor newspaper", "Kikindski novine novine", "The National Journal", "The Vranjska novine", "Independent Light", "Nin", Agency "Beta". I want an explanation. Mr. Balinovac, I am a believer, but I don't think it's appropriate to get baptized in this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1961	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1962	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not understand what is the rationality of our session, the multi-hour, the whole day, and that neither the purpose nor the ultimate goal is seen, and that in doing so the ruling coalition contributes by its behaviour and attitude, I think the chairman himself, or the President of the Assembly. I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 83, which was done this morning, where it is said that the draft agenda of the National Assembly can include those points that have been prepared in advance under the law, as will the Constitutional Law. When it comes to this, we had the first session of the newly elected National Assembly, which finished the work of establishing the Assembly, electing the Government and adopting the Law on Ministries, i.e. the adoption of the Law on Ministries until the Government was elected. After that, Article 5. Constitutional law tells us exactly what's coming on the agenda. I think the students of the champions would understand that, not those who run this congregation and who are in charge of proposing the agenda. Not to read what the laws are, in Article 5, it says that in the first part. The next thing you know is that it's a priority thing that needs to be done in order to end things, and it's in Article 9. Constitutional law: the election or appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court will be carried out no later than the end of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. We didn't respect that. We were obliged to respect that, with all the laws that we have passed, including this government law that is now on the agenda, the requirement and application of the Constitutional Court, and in certain members, there is a need to launch a procedure of assessment of constitutionality and legality, for example in the Government Act. We are passing a law on government, which is a dead letter on paper because the Constitutional Court cannot assess its constitutionality, or legality at a given time, in terms of what is the application of the laws or general acts of territorial local units etc. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, is Article 98(3), where you say you did not consider that the work of the National Assembly should be terminated, and here it says: The National Assembly President interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases if the National Assembly concludes it. Allow me, the National Assembly first concludes whether you should stop or not. I don't think you're wondering about it, but the National Assembly, and you're acting on the conclusion of the National Assembly whether the session should be interrupted or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1963	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1964	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to advertise the violation of Article 100(3). The president of the assembly is obliged to give an explanation to the MP who asked the question afterwards. At least 15 times during the day, the representatives of the LDP signalled Article 98 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3, that the President of the Assembly should interrupt the work of the National Assembly and, in other cases, if the National Assembly concludes so. On several occasions, you took the right to act as a National Assembly and to conclude what we should have done as MPs of the National Assembly. Once again, I ask you to speak for one more time, to give an explanation. Since I expect it will not happen, I and the other LDP MPs will leave this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1965	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1966	Mr. President, you're just a spokesman for this assembly, and you've given yourself the right to be the National Assembly. No individual can do that, however, you have clearly usurped the powers given to you by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We remain resilient in the request that this session be terminated and we ask you to, as usual, check that there is a quorum for working in the National Assembly. We're saying it doesn't exist. We remain resilient and will do so in the future, even when the work on certain laws begins, that the government's representative on these agenda points cannot be Mr. Zoran Balinovac. I remind you once again of the reasons we've mentioned over and over again during the day. This is Milena Arežina's book "The Night of Cheating, the Day of Betrayal." Milena Arežina was the president of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade at the time of Slobodan Milosevic's regime. Milena Arežina was replaced after October 5th. What is written in this book by Milena Arežina has to do with this session and our insistence that Mr. Zoran Balinovac not be the government's authority over the current agenda points. Says Milena Arežina, page 250: The main organisers of my cabinet's burglary on October 6th are now at Glavonjic's on October 9th, where they were produced together at the first crisis headquarters to figure out how to kick me out. Just as Mile Lukovic-Kum told me, just before the cabinet was held, they were joined in Glavonjic's nest by Cedomir Prosper, then the president of the Supreme Court of Commerce, and Zoran Balinovac, then deputy minister of justice, otherwise when the JUL's most radical financial core, a man who took over the role of the activist for Kljajevic's promotion, based on the balance sheet of all the crimes since 6 October committed with the help of the Surcinac. Balinovac was more zealous than Minister Jankovic himself in implementing JUL's directives in the judiciary, especially in punishing the media. He says on page 252: suddenly the jagged Balinovac comes in, he kneels, he closes his hands, and, almost squats, says - resign, please, it's for your own safety. Is that what you think, Balinovich? Over my head, you're courting a new government. You're not gonna make it... '"(President: Time, Mr. Batic. I'm done. '"... This is not about me today. This is about you. We're gonna put it all on you. I've already joined Kostunica. If you don't resign, I can kill you. The nuts can't wait. Gentlemen, such a man and friends from the DS today represent the government. That's what his contemporary and his associate, Mrs. Milena Aregina, wrote about him. You obviously don't mind, as you obviously don't mind, and that the other day, along with Zoran Balinovac, as head of the government's press relations office, was appointed Mr. Milivove Mihajlović. He was, by the way, a spokesman for the SPS for Kosovo and Metohija. So much for the lustration, which Zoran Djindjic stood for, which we all stood for. You're making a revolution. You bring back the Balinovac, you bring back Milivom Mihajlovic, and you insist that we participate in that relustration. Well, we won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1967	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by the National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1968	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina believes that the presence of Mr Balinovac at this session, as a representative of the government, by the government's authorised deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, offends the dignity of this assembly, but above all also you, Mr President, and now I will explain why. It's not just that Mr. Balinovac was a member of the JUL, and then, in October 2000, he moved into the DSS, because the DSS is full of such personnel that came from JUL and SPS, it's no surprise for us. However, there is a small problem for us, and for you, Mr. President, to represent the problem and what he participated in on the team for the creation of a famous terrorism law that requires legal experts in the SRJ legislation, even a life sentence for non-experiencers should be imposed. Based on the bill's proposal, which just arrived from the Yugoslav Left, whose Mr. Balinovac was then a representative on the team, and in addition to this fact, the fact that he was even leader of the Radicals Vojislav Seselj against his adoption. The ruling coalition, the SPS, the SRS, the JUL and the entire state summit were declared a terrorist organisation in 1999, and this organisation, which we heard in your biography, Mr. President, that you participated in their establishment, and that is something that you should be proud of, and it should insult you too if the person who was inclined to declare you a terrorist today represents a ruling coalition. In early 2000, the lawyers assessed that this law on terrorism should include everything that was in any way appropriate to the regime and was planned to serve as the basis for the attempt to criminalise then opposition parties that disagreed with the regime, but the creation of an alibi for the regime under the "fighting against terrorism" company, in such a way as to deal with political indifferences. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is not prepared to present this man as the government's author, who claims to be democratic, and we will fight hard against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1969	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and then by MP Aleksandar Vukic and then by Parliament of People Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1970	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, many members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated today, no longer known which are not, but I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been reduced to a minimum today. All the time since the government was formed, since the current assembly majority formed, they have been trying to tell Serbian citizens that we have a rule of law, how we're going to start working, how we're going to make progress, etc. He who says that today, after this session, we have a rule of law, he seriously deceives Serbian citizens into the legality and legality of this country. How we have a legal state and how we can pass laws, these proposed today, when the Constitution and constitutional law clearly state what laws must be passed in the first session of the regular session of the National Assembly, and even if we ignore it, and we must not ignore that fact, how to pass laws if we do not have a Constitutional Court, which is the basis of a single rule of law. It is clear to us today that both the current parliamentary majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia just want to continue their political games, want to continue to share their political feuds. They've barely divided them into globally, and now they need to be further shared in detail. There's now the biggest problem, how who's going to set up their own man, in which resistor, how to control the resistor, which is the size of the resistor. That's what they're interested in, and whether it's going to happen as a division of the portfolio by some laws or by free political agreements behind the scenes, it's up to you Serbian citizens to decide, and to us that we will certainly not support what is being done here. Just today, these laws, the government of the Republic of Serbia wants an active assembly majority to share its resources, that is another proof, that the government continues to deal with itself, that the assembly majority continues to deal with itself rather than with interests that are of general importance. To them, unfortunately, it doesn't matter that there is no Constitutional Court, so for example The AP Vojvodina can pass the statute of whatever it will, it can pass any other general act of its will, what is the government's mechanism to react to, only through the Constitutional Court, but it does not worry about it, but it is concerned about what kind of authority in the new government will have, and what authority in the new government will have a vice president, because political power is very important, that is, the division of political power. Every law of this nature that is passed is not just a hunt in a dim... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... but also usurp the authorities. But since it's the usurpation of power, I'll say it in half an hour, because now time limits me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1971	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I went out for a pay phone for responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, because I think it's important that people know what's going on in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, here in our cabinets, where we have the opportunity to follow the news, different television programs. I couldn't figure out what was going on in the congregation today. Of course, when you look at B92, Pink and RTS, then you see mostly what Cedomir Jovanovic and Boris Tadic are doing, there is no place for others, so that man could not understand what's on the agenda today, no one can know from the citizens of Serbia what this is about, and it is something that, respected friends, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, I really don't understand. So, this morning, we should have talked about everything that was provided for by the Constitutional Law, to see who would be governor of the National Bank of Serbia, before we could see what we would do about Kosovo and Metohija. To remind you, everyone today was engaged in Kosovo and Metohija, except for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and our state bodies, even the Albanian authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, a meeting of the "G8" in Podzam, every place talked about Kosovo and Metohija, only with us a single word. We were supposed to talk about all this, and the debate turned into a debate about Zoran Balinovac. I understand, everyone has a right to it, it's legal and legitimate, but it's pretty stupid. It's particularly stupid that the debate is being led by those who had become their ally, I'll remind you, no one thought of it today, they had the one they said they had ordered, I know the names of those people who were serious mobsters or whatever you want from New Belgrade, that they were ordered by a colleague of the late Mita, etc. And some of them are still alive today, so that He has commanded them to beat them in the Sorcery when they are glued to the posters. It was Branislav Ivkovic. That's not what I said, no one beat me and I didn't even see it, but I heard from you that Branislav Ivkovic found Bata Trlai, and found Nasha, and found this one, found the one who beat these mice from DOS, where they arrived and where they put the posters. That's what you people said, but you didn't mind going into the coalition after that with Branislav Ivkovic and doing miracles in the National Assembly, and voting whatever you want and whoever you want, and having Micunovic elected thanks to Branislav Ivkovic's voice. Now it's scary because that's where Mr. Balinovac sits. Okay, and you're right about that, and I get it. I don't understand that today's lessons are held by those who are here every time we report to the Rules of Procedure twice, if there's anything wrong with saying it by the Rules of Procedure, we'll be in touch. He'd go out hysterically and start talking quietly, and then he'd start running around, if no one alive knew what happened to him in the meantime. He starts talking, he says, you can't, this is democracy, and this is an obstruction of parliament, and then the other two come up, and they call on the phone RTS, Pink, B92, they don't even have to call, they know, ex-officio, so what do they do and what they need to do against Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1973	It's been three minutes, please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1974	I'm sorry, Mr. Albian, and thank you for your understanding. Then they buzz and say, it's the scariest obstruction, how much money the Serbian citizens spent. We ask you this question, gentlemen, not from most of you, not from these Hague circles that like to arrest, and what they like to illustrate, and harass, and I don't know what else, we won't mind. Otherwise, the argument of how much money is and how effective it is when it comes to parliament autocratic, dictatorial argument. That's Hitler's argument, by the way, which you most often used while you were in power, so far this moment. I don't mind, you can continue, just remember that there's been a lot worse than what you guys are doing tonight, I don't know why you insist. I insist, not because of us, not because we need political points, but what Mr. Albianic is, five to twelve, not five to eight, as it says on this watch, but metaphorically, it's five to twelve. It's five to twelve for the state of Serbia, five to twelve for Kosovo and Metohija, because every day it's part of our territory beyond Serbia. We keep quiet, pretend like nothing's going on alive, is our only hope of what Vladimir Putin will say. Serbia doesn't know what it will or doesn't know what it won't do, or what it will do if it comes to unilateral recognition or not. We don't have our policy, we don't know anything about what to do, there's no one from the ministers. The ministers were scattered. And I found out because it's very important for the citizens to hear, they reported that those from the Committee of Conflict of Interest made a decision. I'm not going to reevaluate, but if they happen to have made a decision, they've falsified it by inserting data.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1975	Please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1976	Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1977	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure by extending time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1978	Thank you, Mr. Albianic, for your understanding, I'm done. So, those of the Committee on Conflict of Interests have happened to work and make such decisions against the law and under pressure, they will show only, and I hope not, but it will only show that there are no institutions in this country and that only the people should ask what they think of who they are. Is it possible that someone who has 10 or 11m euros, that's great, so it's "Real Madrid", I work so successfully. How many thousands of citizens together can't get that together. Somewhere you can find 20, 50,000 people who can't get that expensive, and where they play -- in the lower Prcilovica, and only he plays for Real Madrid. And it's all right and it's all normal, everyone's stupid, only he's smart.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1979	I don't understand anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1980	Thank you for your understanding so far, Mr. Albianic. Once again, I would like to thank you, and I would like to thank all the people in Serbia, and I end up with this -- who have supported the idea of freedom for those young people who have been arrested for nothing. We found out today why, you won't believe. It's not because they glued posters and violated public order and peace, it's because of the public's alarm. They were behind bars because of this, but as you saw, after a broad international action, in which Serbian radicals participated, these young men were released, because the idea of freedom neither the DOS could defeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1981	National MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1982	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I report to the 104 - nation MPs to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In addition to the MPs, there is a commitment by the president of this parliament, which is only the first among the equals, and that is because the political majority has decided so. However, what is happening here today and what we have persistently reacted to is the avoidance of the President of Parliament to declare Article 98(3) and to enable the Assembly to declare whether it has confidence in Mr Balinovac and whether he can and should be the rapporteur on the amendment and addition of the Government Act or not. The LDP has insisted on it all day. What happened was that the President of Parliament did not react to this, and he practically insulted not only us LDP MPs, but all those citizens behind us. When the president of this parliament was elected, the LDP did not give him support for principled reasons. In fact, because there was a political majority behind it that we simply cannot cooperate with in principle, we primarily thought of the DSS. But we also made it very clear that this does not mean that we have anything personal against Mr. Dulic, or even looked kindly at that Serbia finally has a young speaker. That's true for all respect and respect. However, the young president of parliament did not behave the way we expected him to do in view of his age, which means that we expected him to behave democratically, as modern, as civil and as European President of the European Parliament of the European state. Unfortunately, he didn't do it. I now express one of my intimate personal beliefs here, that Mr. Dulic is not the president, my president, is not the president of our LDP MPs, who are working with you in this House. I can certainly say, and quite frankly, he is the JUL-president of parliament. I think it's devastating. It's 2007, just to remind you, and I'm sorry Mr. Dulic isn't here to hear this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1983	The President of Parliament is a member of the Democratic Party and I ask that we do not qualify people in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1984	Just one more. I expected, as someone who had previously been involved in politics in an organization called the Resistance, and I see that he had experience in that organization, that he would act differently and have more understanding. But unfortunately, he's deeply disappointed us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1985	According to Businessman Bojan Milovanovic, Aleksandar Vukic, Rajko Baralic. Any more calls?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1986	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 101 and 104, but mostly 101, and I'm going to explain briefly what this is all about. Today, we are on several occasions, first of all Article 101, and I'm going to introduce him to an insult, and I'm reporting for the simple reason that at any moment, when a part of the last regime needed to be declared guilty of everything that has hit us over the past few years, the SPS has often been mentioned. I must say that I have come forward for a simple reason, the last elections have shown that a large part of Serbia's citizens, precisely around 230, have declared themselves to the SPS policy. What does that mean? We have one obligation to act responsibly as a party, first of all, towards the citizens who gave us the vote, and what does that mean? Some colleagues here have potentiated their strengths by keeping their consistency, dignity, justice, consistency in politics, above all, ahead of their citizens and demonstrating. I have to admit that the SPS, first of all in recent years, no matter what it has carried with it and, as a consequence, has drawn out that some two million votes are down to $230,000, I'm going to say that these are honest and honest people, decent, precise and clean from the ones that we've been potentialing here today, first of all, for ten hours. I know that the parliamentary majority of all its downs in the near past wants to rest, and even in their own ranks, as the legacy of the past regime. The SPS is aware of the fact that most of it, I'm not going to use any ugly words, so that we don't take it under the notion of hate speech, but our own scum, whom we're very well aware of, and how well it's scattered already by the parties that are now called the parliamentary majority. In any case, the SPS is moving into a new aspect, first of all, of politics, and this is the one that has contributed to this definitely in these quasi-democratic changes, to clean ourselves up and now to the citizens to behave the way citizens expect us to. In any case, I reiterate once again that those who voted for the SPS, and above all these MPs who present this policy at this time, will not allow any moment to bear some ballast past for which they are absolutely not to blame. If they are guilty, turn around, they have infiltrated your ranks very nicely, and we are happy that they are no longer among us, and I would like from the heart to contribute to the development of your parties as they have contributed to ours. First of all, Mr. Zoran Balinovac was here today, perhaps more and more broader than he is, and I don't regret him at all, that you don't get me wrong, but in any case, I wouldn't let on behalf of the SPS that his former and current policies connect with the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1987	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to notice that here all the time, but I guess it's become normal in public, from parties of self-proclaimed or false democratic bloc, insults representatives of even those parliamentary groups that are incomparably more numerous than their or any other parliamentary group, just because they've found themselves reversing that they're very modern, that they're very smart, that I don't know what, I guess they're fancy or I don't understand what they're talking about. I heard today for the tenth time, hey, so today in 2007, then I tried, of course I'm not at that level of contemplative abilities as they are that I understand it all to the end, but what I'm trying to understand, as far as I'm trying to understand, to see what they're trying to say, and what that means in 2007. Imagine someone telling Hitler in 1939 or 1938, when he went there with all his anchovies and miracles, look out, this is 1938, it's not 1928 and it can't happen again in 1928. It's worse for us in 2007 than it was in 1997. Much worse is being ruled in 2007 than in 1997. Much more robbers, much more difficult than Serbian citizens, took much more and planned to document Serbia. And not to say that in the end we're going to lose both Kosovo and Metohija, because they don't care, but they don't care. Look, but there's no camera, no what to do, they leave the cameras like this, so they pick up and go home. There is no cameraman that Serbian citizens can see what this hall looks like, but secretly empty, we are not in an OR 70 or 80, I'm sorry if I made a mistake and I'm sorry about that, but 250 of us have been chosen. There's not one of the government's representatives. There's an authorized promoter, an authorized representative, and no one else. There's not a single minister, everyone's working. What are those ministers doing? I know they went to Milan-Liverpool, half of the government went to Milan-Liverpool, was terribly important to protect Serbian national and economic interests at the Milan-Liverpool game. I don't know what they've protected. I don't even know who they were rooting for, but it doesn't matter in the end line. Why did I go this way? It's like they're trying to say to us in some way -- we're much smarter, more advanced, and you're some of the behind. Let's see what, let's see with those most advanced, let's compete in the knowledge of foreign languages, let's see how many foreign languages Cedomir Jovanovic knows? I'm willing to compete with him, not someone smarter than me to take, and there are many in the SRS MP group, here I am going to compete with him, see who knows more or who talks more or how many foreign languages are being used.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1989	Mr. Wolfie, it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1990	It's not over, it's just coming, Mr. Albianic. It's my first time getting to know you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1991	We can't do that, break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1992	Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Albianic, I will soon. So when we start talking about such clear, clean and concrete things, what's modern, so let's see, to compete, there's nothing. And then modernity is seen in what, dear friends, is it to be fancy? It's seen how you're going to love and respect all the least and most retrograde groups in society, that you have to praise that they're great, that they're random social groups, that are supposed to be exactly equal, etc., from half-criminals to not knowing which ones, to the junkies, and I don't know what, and instead of treating them, you need to gluff them. We're not up for it. And of course we're different. Is modernity in it - no matter what I care about Kosovo and Metohija, I look somewhere in the future and I don't think it's modernity. I think that's what's left of the Middle Ages. You want me to tell you what part of the Middle Ages? We've had Serbs and some parts with dark spots in our history, and it's been 100, 200, 300 years and there's no uprising, no rebellion, nothing, there is, living under occupation, nothing. These are the ideas of the Middle Ages, absolutely from the Middle Ages, and they tell us that these are today's most modern ideas. Those in power, they are even worse, they are silent, they are not interested in what they are interested in, nor are they interested in answering us about Kosovo and Metohija, nor are they interested in saying anything to others, they are not interested in anything under God's care. They got their hands on the chair, now there's a budget fight. One wants a little more money over here, the other wants a little bit over there, and the other one won't, because he's got as much money solved and he's made so much promise, he's counting as he's coming into the right and as much as he's in his left pocket. So now we're talking about whether Zoran Balinovac is guilty. No, we want to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, we want to talk about Serbia, we want to talk about the budget, we want to talk about the sale and kidnapping of our businesses to talk about, we want to talk about everything that bothers Serbian citizens. That's what we want to talk about. And about how the richer citizens of Vojvodina lived, of course, because the province government, along with the republican authorities in the previous period, dramatically robbed them, as you know, and I agree with that, of course, it does.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1993	Mr. Wolfie, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1994	I have great respect for Mr. Chank, and what he's been looking for, he's got what to do with it. So we need people more responsible to approach problems. I don't care, and I know most people here don't care what they're gonna tell them, but I'm doing it on purpose to show the people what nonsense they've led to by the Broadcasting Agency, the Broadcasting Agency Council, the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. What nonsense and how it behaves B92 or someone else. That's all I'm talking about, not because I'm particularly worried about it. I hope to God they attack me or anyone from the U.S.S. Who and when they attack someone that rating grows. Here's an example and I'll finish, Mr. Albianic. You remember, Mr. Albianic, I expected you, as a well-known human rights fighter, to stand in the protection of MP Goran Cvetanovic, when B92 so dramatically lied about Goran Cvetanovic cursing something on the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1995	Mr. Wolfie, you'll do it in the next exhibition. It's been too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1996	I don't want 30 seconds. So they called a man, a simple Serb, a host. They say -- this is B92, and he lists them all, as Serbia or 3/4 of Serbia as a whole, as a host. Then because they didn't know what to do, they said -- that's what Goran Cvetanovic told them. That doesn't sound like his voice, they say, "I'm sorry, we made a mistake." Is that your democracy? Is that 2007? Is that your modernity? Is that how you imagine Serbia? We do not imagine such a Serbia and what is most important, unlike you, we imagine Serbia as it is today and what is the only possible, which is with Kosovo and Metohija, because Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija cannot exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1997	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1998	Articles 101 and 104. Mr. Wolfie, what you've been saying, it's the vases, the legacy of those Middle Ages ideas. Not all of them, but well, some of them are. When you agree to do it at the beginning, when these people fund an election campaign and then you become a government, then you do what they tell you and it's called this -- vasals. It takes as long as it's interesting for those who funded your election campaign. You took part in this on your own, and you have no trouble with us. We are collecting our own money for the campaign, tearing our tails around Serbia, going home to the hosts, not breaking this cake with the salt as you do, and then you won't provide it from the city, but well, the time will come for the cards to be mixed up, some other people will come, and some of you will recognize such behaviour, so there won't be as many votes in your ballot box as it takes for you to exercise power in Serbia. The way you're doing it, we saw it today. You break the Constitution, you break the constitutional law, you break everything you've reached. I hope those who decide to do so in the next election can remember you. As far as the SPS is concerned, I've said an apology here several times, and the gratitude of the SPS is received in the ballot box and it will happen in the time to come. You'd be more interested in doing what the agenda is today, but obviously you can't. You managed to confuse a serious newspaper like Evening News. See today's title - Serbia's Parliament on the budget. Serious journalists and more serious media know that budgeting in a country is a serious media event. Of course, you managed to trick them too, or they weren't well informed that they were amending and supplementing the Budget System Act on the agenda, although by 10.00 hours it'll be almost 12 hours that we're discussing something that's not the agenda. So here you tried to push past the Constitution, past the law, past the Rules of Procedure something that you were prepared to criticise until yesterday. As for us, as far as I'm concerned, when Mr. Dulic was elected president of parliament, and before that he had this famous sentence that some of them were going to dirty up the biographies because they were going to sit next to Milutin Mrkonjic and others, I said that I would charge him in these four years or as long as this is going on, it seems to me that he can stop in the morning, every time I get a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u1999	It's been three minutes, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2000	It's been three minutes, but Mr. Albianic doesn't care. We'll check in with the Rules of Procedure until you're white until you're sick of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2001	It's not a dispute, I'm just suggesting a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2002	No problem, I'll call you a few dozen more times. I came here only to represent the citizens, I have nothing else to do but to piss you off, because you are doing a job in which you do not understand and do it in a way that does not know the Rules of Procedure about the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Next time I'll talk for two minutes, now I've been over the whole minute. I thank you for your patience and understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2003	National MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2004	I am informing the public that I am reporting again on official duty because the ruling coalition is deaf, but of course also in the Rules of Procedure. I appeal to Article 27, which says that the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and about Article 161. Since they do not believe us, to read that the law can be extremely passed by an emergency procedure, so it says - by an urgent procedure only a law governing the issue and dealings with circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations. I'm sorry, no, Mr. Krasic, they weren't sure they were going to form a government. That was the problem. This Article 161st point 2 when you read it turns out that the gentlemen of the so-called The democratic bloc really wasn't sure it would form a government, because how else to interpret it. I have to yell because you won't shut up. You want to make a noise, and if you have anything to say, go out for the pay phone and say it. At least now you can, you're almost ten in here. So it can be concluded from this that the ruling coalition did not predict that it would form a government, which also shows the famous session, until vampire times deep into the night. They didn't believe in themselves. What can I conclude from this? This law was supposed to be, they say, a compliance with the Constitution. Now it's said here - because it's the consequences of life and health. The consequences of life and health were reflected at that famous session when the government was elected to the session before we elected the speaker of the assembly, when there was a famous match between DOS forces or prodosovna forces. The consequences of living citizens can really be serious about what's going on here. Look, Kosovo and Metohija are being debated by Putin and Bush, they're discussing major forces, thank God we don't seem to be asking much, but that's why our ministers were discussing the country's economic future yesterday, with an emphasis on privatisation. What do we conclude from that? We conclude from this that the distribution of social power, with an emphasis on privatisation, or the 50% unprivatised property of Serbia, with an emphasis on EPS, NIS and military assets, is under way. Therefore, as it reflects on the lives of the citizens, and then I conclude that those who passed the Constitutional Law and the Constitution, since they appear to be in rank, apparently, by their own importance, say the lawyers, made sure that we had to have both the Constitutional Court and the Governor of the National Bank and that we had to establish the state properly. Who doesn't care? It doesn't matter to those who distribute prey. Please, when a bankruptcy mafia is tried today, whose existence is important for the lives of Serbian citizens, because companies are destroyed so people have no place to work, there is no answer to the central question of the existence of a bankruptcy mafia, and that is, is it possible to have a bankruptcy mafia without a grip with the state? (President: Time.) ) Thank you, Mr. Albianic, I'll use Mr. Vukic's vocabulary, thank you for understanding. I apologize for using plagiarism, Mr. Wolf. Next, he says, the country's security. Please, those who asked not to start or establish a session until a report on what was in Vienna is received, are today inclined to discuss privatisation, distribute powers, what state secretaries will do, how state officials will behave, and do not care whether at this point the public of Serbia, who is also excited by the simple fact that every information is important, not the culinary one, whether and how many phones George Bush and Putin spoke, and I am sure that Russia will play its game until the end, as the United States, who do not like to lose, will play their game until the end. I am interested in whether after the fall of Vuk Draskovic, a random fall, because he was a minister and when he was not elected, the new Minister Vuk Jeremic launched anything to resolve nepotism in the foreign ministry, did we perhaps appoint ambassadors to the Security Council member states to correct our country's external political influence? Have we submitted a report on why Romano Prodi continues to support Mr. Martti Ahtisaari's plan in the conversation with Mr. Tadic, and we do not know what our country is planning if individual bilateral recognitions occur, except that we may, perhaps, threaten, so little, that we will break diplomatic relations with those countries, which are included in the story. Please, the security of the Serbian state is still at stake with the appearance of the Wahhabi... (President: You are breaking the Rules of Procedure. I can answer again, but Mr. Albianic, if you allow one or two more thesis, and since it's free EPP time, and we don't have any other media, I'll use it and I won't answer again, so we can finally start with this story. Here's the air-conditioning Mr. Balinovac and says, "No one said anything nice about me today." Let me tell you something, you've been told very nice things today, except you haven't figured it out. First of all, no one has challenged your expertise. Yes, you were also good with Slobodan Milosevic's regime, and with Zoran Djindjic's regime, and with Vojislav Kostunica's regime, and you will probably be good to the next regime, because you are expert. The most beautiful thing that has been said today about you and what I want to praise is that you have driven Goran Svilanovic away and it is a great honor for you. If you're not, then I resent you, so you choose, he wants to resent you, Chad Jovanovic or me. Next... (President: Mr. Bajatovic, indeed... Another thesis, please. I still have a problem with the security of this country today, because there are no millions of people working in this country, because we're post-industrial society, because we have huge social tensions. All that, gentlemen, is endangering the safety of this country. You know when a country is strong? That's what the Dayton Agreement predicted. Serbia was meant to be the political, economic and military strongest country in the Balkans, and this was guaranteed by the former Dayton Agreement, which is that Serbia was meant to be a factor of peace and stability in the Balkans, as it was said in 96. Unfortunately, after 5 October, many mechanisms, many facts, including economic strength and military potential, and political unity built at the will of the people of Serbia, have lost. That and how it puts this country's safety at risk. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Albianic, I sincerely apologize to you for knowing that you have not signed a request for this item of the agenda and for this session, as others have not signed it. I find you very correct, and you have a good presidency. Only this other member... (President: There's no more time, really. I can do it without a microphone. Second paragraph of Article 161... (President: Mr. Bajatovic, you are really in violation of the Rules of Procedure, without respecting the time, you do not respect the time drastically. )......................................................................................................... in a brief interpretation, it also speaks of the security of citizens, and that this government, whose dozen representatives sit here, does not want to listen to the opposition, even though it knows that this is what Serbian citizens are watching... (President: I thank you. )......................................................................................................... What do you trust? (Arranged microphone)
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2005	Mr. Bajatovic, please, please, you have dramatically broken your time, allow your MP from your parliamentary group to move on to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2006	Mr. Albian, get me out of here. Mr. Albianic, we will not allow only one government in Serbia, executive power. The opposition MPs will have the dignity...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2007	National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2008	fellow Members, I would just like to continue to consider Article 104, which has been violated on several occasions, and in several views, and above all in a position that says that MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Long time ago, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I heard that someone, one MP, spoke with respect, especially if we are from different parliamentary groups. Since the beginning of the first constitutive session, which will enter the historical annals of our parliamentaryism, and in its course and in its contents, from the moment the current parliamentary majority was formed, until the moment the government was formed, it continued only with the usurpation of political power and nothing else. What the SPS wants to present to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is to explain how the political usurpation of authorities is being carried out. We all know that the current political majority in parliament has barely forced the government into its misery. The government began its work and everything was clear to us when it began with the first law, with amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was not important to pass all these laws provided for by the Constitutional Law, but it was very important to extend detention, even to 40 years. Unfortunately, it has moved on in attempts to political usurp power, which is normal. The government is proposing a law and knows that it will have a majority to consider in the Assembly and that any law will pass. It is normal for opposition MPs to see this political upheaval of authorities and want to react. What's the possibility of a response? MPs representing the political minority are in the minority, but in a significant number they can, for example, initiate the issue of the constitutionality of a law. Who will decide whether one law is constitutional or not, whether or not it respects the Constitution. There is no Constitutional Court at this time to decide, but there is always a parliamentary majority that has formed the government and will decide and make a political solution. Unfortunately, both the parliamentary majority and that government are not free will, I want to repeat once again, not the MPs in the Assembly, nor the free will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We know perfectly well that it is the will of political powers on the side and that it is an excuse to fit into some EU law. It is wanted to achieve nothing, to create chaos in the country, that nothing productive is happening in the country, nothing constructive, and that Parliament and citizens of the Republic are standing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2009	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to you under Articles 27, 101, 103 and 104. Mr. Albianic, thank you in advance for understanding. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if you really think, Mr. Balinovac, there's a debate tonight at 11 or 12 about the government law? Is there a deadline again? Is it necessary to have someone elected by midnight again or don't I know what's supposed to happen? Or does the government do much, so there is no time to wait for the trom and the slow congregation? Maybe that's it. It must be again, they must go, you will see Mr. Albianic, Finland-Serbia probably going back to developing economic relations with Finland and having Olli Rehn repeat to them again that he is pushing for an independent Kosovo. But I'd like to say seriously, since I don't consider many ministers in the government to be serious, regardless of the function they perform. I'm only interested in what we talked about here tonight, was this arrested a Democratic Party candidate for the head of the Tax Administration at Serbia's level? Is it possible that all criminals have to be in DOS? I'm talking about these big criminals. I'm not talking about little criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2011	Please, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2012	What are you asking me, Mr. Albian, for not asking Jocic not to arrest that criminal but now you're begging me, when I say who's a criminal and now it's my fault? I have a few questions about Kosovo and Metohija, so I hope that you, Mr Balinovac, will answer me or anyone. What are we doing as a state? I don't know if you know, dear friends, that we don't have an ambassador to the Russian Federation. I see it's funny to some people, because now I'm going to say something that some people are going to try to turn on, but something that represents the essence of truth. I've heard that from some friends of Serbia, from people abroad, and I see it more and more myself, and I couldn't believe it. While an ordinary citizen, every Serb in Kosovo and Metohija, should hope and trust in the Russian veto in the Security Council, until we have a political elite who prays that Russia does not veto, which Russian veto is causing problems because they have just come up with -- don't let the Russians veto. See what the news looks like?- I'm sorry. And the wonderful, idyllic relations in Potsdam have been corrupted by a Russian delegation that cannot quite agree with the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija. They'd like everyone to agree. This is what the top and political elite of the system in Serbia would like, if the Russians agreed to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, so that they would tell us -- it's a terrible decision against Serbia, but we have to respect the UN Security Council decisions, and that's how we got rid of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2013	We have to respect the Rules of Procedure. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2014	Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Albianic. This was a very inconclusive and inappropriate remark at the moment I was talking about very serious things. I wanted you to hear something, Mr. Albianic, and I thank you in advance for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2015	Don't do that anymore. Report to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2016	I'll be very soon, Mr. Albianic. You interrupted me for three minutes. Wait a minute. So these people are in no way responsible for us to preserve our territory. They do not support this because then they will have to guide Serbia very carefully. Then there's no rampage, then there's no harassment of political opponents, then there's no child arrest for alarming the public. Look what's going on in the world today. Americans and Western services what they do in Ukraine! In any way and at all costs, just to cause any conflict, not to say civil war. Similarly, they try through some political parties in Serbia. Look only in faraway Venezuela, the same pots you had, the same ones have American servants there. But the same pots, the same whistles as the egg you are. It's the same fate as yours. You serve each other to the Americans. And they shall drive one nation and the other into the place of history. There's no big philosophy, you can see that now. From Georgia, from "The Rose of the Revolution," "The Orange Revolution", "The Revolution of Lalas in Kyrgyzstan," and I don't know where so far, Venezuela, in every place the same thing. You were like the original. You're not original in anything. Everything from the textbook was given to you as you must behave. Well, they weren't originals either, they were painted. In fact, I'm sorry, the Venezuelans were taking your pots and now they're banging into the same pots. Another very important question. So, aside from not having an ambassador to the Russian Federation and doing nothing that would be important to our national interests, do you think that we end up with a state-run setup, how today's daily newspaper "Justice" writes -- Svilanovic for BIA, Svilanovic or Dragisic, anyway. Whoever you set up, Svilanovic or Dragisic, Serbia goes completely to ruin. There is nothing more than the security of this country, there is no more of its future, neither of Kosovo nor Metohija nor of anything else. Is this Carla del Ponte deciding in Serbia who will be the minister? I'm just afraid the citizens of Serbia didn't want it, and they didn't know it. At the same time, thanks to you for understanding, Mr. Albianic, I just want to remind you that from the great affairs and the mafia we have not yet learned of any mafia how punished they are, what they are punished for, from there cement affair, suitcase affair, there's the one who became advisor in the People's Bank, now has a salary greater than what was found in his case until I know what. So our question is how is it, everyone was carrying money to someone big, and who's the big one if it's said by some government official, so-called. The road mob? Who's the big guy if a customs officer tells him? Who's the big guy if he's told by an officer in the oil mob, the bankruptcy mob or anyone else? Those are some ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Not all ministers can be fair, richer and richer, and the people are getting poorer, and you're just arresting the mob after the mob. The mafia is, by definition, bound to the state. It's tied to the state's organs, but the fish from the head stinks. Let the ministers answer, not those who brought them money. That's our request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2017	I ask whether the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to talk about the agenda point: the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act? The word is by MP Vjerica Radeta, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2018	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we started work this morning at 10 o'clock. The proposal for a representative of the Democratic Party was to bring together a debate on the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, the Law on Civil Servants and the Law on State Administration. Something incredible happened that those who support the government as a promoter did not have enough MPs to vote on the proposal and without any explanation, Parliament Speaker Mr Oliver Dulic interrupted the session and began talking again about the agenda as if there had been no proposal. He was obliged to present to the MPs the proposal of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, i.e. the head of the parliamentary group. He had to put the proposal, in line with the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda, and then we would know this morning at 10:15 that Vojislav Kostunica does not have a majority in this parliament for his government's proposals. Now, what's going to happen in the meantime and what's been going on all day today about something else, we're going to see it when we pass these laws. Members of the SRS have repeatedly intervened according to the Rules of Procedure today, and this is solely because of the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. because of the disrespect of Article 5. The constitutional law and the obligations of this Parliament to lay down certain regulations to which we are bound by the Constitution, i.e. the Constitutional Law. It is truly amazing that the congregation's majority thus behaves literally to rape the right, that you do not care at all what the Constitution obliges us to do as the highest legal act. It is also very interesting that today, and I would like the cameras of the state, or public service, to take a little walk on this side where MPs of the parliamentary majority sit, that the election of all 12 MPs who, not 12 of them are now in the hall, no one has reported today that in any way defends the proposal of the government, to explain in any way what has forced the Government of the Republic of Serbia to force the Assembly, or the assembly majority to violate the Constitution in the most harsh way possible. Oliver Dulic, when presenting himself here as a candidate for the MP, said he would break up with practice, or for the president of parliament, that he would break up with the practice of the Assembly as a government service. I mean, and so far, for seven years, the assembly majority in this parliament has been the service of the government, from Zoran Djindjic to this new Kostunica, or solan's government. So, never, though those congregational majority were in government service, did they do it as harshly as what the congregation majority is today called. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government certainly wasn't a priority, even if we didn't have these obligations under the Constitution we had, we had a lot of more pressing jobs to discuss. You know, that you suggested we discuss a report by the negotiating team on Kosovo and Metohija or possibly about the Republic of Serbia's budget, so maybe we understand that you were delaying what you had to do with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But no, you, because of completely some minor laws, and you will see in the course of the debate even unnecessary ones, in this way you are violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and showing how irresponsible and irresponsible you are. You show that you don't care about the state or citizens living in Serbia, because if we did, we would already have to get a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by adopting it, the citizens would feel like they have a new government, to get a little better. Unfortunately, it's not a new government, it's a government of continuity, and from 2001 to 2007, it's all the DOS government, nothing has changed, except from time to time some groups from that DOS group change their minds, such as Boris Tadic, I'll talk about it a little later. It is very interesting that today, when one of the SRS MPs mentioned today arrested Slavko Pavlovic, deputy director of the Administration of Revenue, who was supposed to be director, as a DS candidate, only then did the head of the DS parliamentary group intervene to say that Slavko Pavlovic was not a member of the DS. I also remember when Bozidar Djelic was elected minister and then you said he was not a member of the DS, in the meantime he became a member of the DS, and in the meantime he was a minister who, I assume the Commission for Conflict of Interest found that in the most harsh way, came into conflict of interest, with eleven million euros in shares in Meridian Bank. Of course, Djelic is not the only one. This later revealed membership in the DS and Aleksandar Vlahovic, and Pitic and other tycoons, today's richest people in Serbia. So, all those who have gone through these so-called democratic governments, from Djindjic to today, are today absolutely the richest people in Serbia. Today we have, for example, the defence minister Vuk Jeremic. Yesterday I read, says Vuk Jeremic that he approves of the conversation between Putin and Bush, and I fall from my heart, Putin and Bush no longer have any problems, Vuk Jeremic approved their meeting and their conversation. It's just amazing how important they give themselves such minor and insignificant people and how important they think they are. Instead of doing what government representatives really should do, they play some great people, and they won't say, and certainly this Mr. Vuk Jeremic knows, let's say today's military faces, active military persons who have families in Kosovo and Metohija, say in Kosovo Mitrovica, when they go there to visit the family, they have to fill out a form that is normally filled out when they go abroad, say, to America. So, such patterns, our officers are actively filling in to visit the family in Kosovo and Metohija, and when they return, of course, they have to report to the security service about their stay in visitation with Mom and Dad. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, there is indeed one big problem here that, and when you pass this law, you will pass an inapplicable law because we do not have a Constitutional Court. That's one of the reasons, so besides being our constitutional obligation, if you want a law like this, you have to have a Constitutional Court. We are, our SRS parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments to this bill. We tried to put what you suggested a little amendment into order. Of course, we'll talk about the amendments, we'll talk about the fellow MPs who have submitted these amendments, but I'll have a few members of the bill to comment on. For example, Article 3 relating to Article 11 of the basic law says: "A member of the government cannot be in another public office in a state body, an authority of an autonomous province, a municipality, a city, a city of Belgrade, or perform an act that is incompatible with the duties of a member of the government by law, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest." I don't know if this applies to Bozidar Djelic, Mr. Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't know if you've been informed about how he reacted to this board of conflict of interest since they're discussing the conflict of interest of Bozidar Djelic today. In article 4, you envisioned an oath, which should be made before the National Assembly of Government members. You have suggested that the oath is: I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and, by my honor, I pledge to respect the Constitution, the law, etc. It seemed to us very brave to leave the current government swearing its honor to keep the constitution guaranteed, above all, the borders of the Republic of Serbia. There is no one in this government to honor or face, no one in this government has a sense of patriotism, but even if the patriots and the honorable men were to exercise power and to form a government, and when they are, then it is also necessary to law according to the text of the oath proposed by the SRS parliamentary group. The oath should read: I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and I undertake to unconditionally protect its sovereignty and overall territory, including Kosovo and Metohija, as an integral part of Serbia, respect the Constitution and the law, and I will carry out my duties as a member of the Government in a safe and responsible manner. This is what a serious oath, a serious member of the government who cares about his country, should look like. In the same Article 4 relating to Article 16 of the Basic Law, you predicted that the new Government was elected, it was in this previous procedure, according to the same procedure as the Government is chosen after the establishment of the National Assembly. It is completely unclear why you deleted this attitude. We insist through the amendment that this position remains within this article, because there is no logical explanation why you deleted this article. When it comes to Article 5. The bill of law, which refers to a member of the 17th basic law, and here we have an objection. You were here to change that she, thought of the government, couldn't set up officials, you crossed that off, so instead of officials, you put state officials in a position. I know it's in line with the Civil Service Act, but we've added here an amendment that can't hire civil servants and tenants either. I see you're responding, Mr. Balinian. I know exactly that your answer will be that the government doesn't do it. Of course, that's what the ministries do, the ministries do the government. And, of course, you've been doing it for the last months of this government and you plan to do it again. When you see that the government is about to disband, that there are new elections at hand, then you hire all possible party activists, so that some new government that comes to keep them at work, because imagine, God forbid, that you should happen to receive without any basis a hundred people in one ministry and some other power comes and fire them. I think you'd split that power on the cross. Why did you avoid it, I don't believe you'll accept our amendment, although it would be very serious and responsible, Mr. Balinovac, to do it on behalf of the government and thus protect yourself from any possible abuse. Without this provision, you will continue to have roadside, bankruptcy, education, oil and whatever you want the mafia. You will have these men brought by ministers, who are instrumentalizing, who are working, then later stealing, and then you arrest not knowing how many people who deal with this crime, and no minister is missing hair from his head. It is simply impossible that in every ministry, and mostly these ministers today, such affairs, such crime, such thieving, and that not one of the ministers has even thought of making a joke, to say, here, I am resigning because such miracles are happening within my ministry. We've got a few more amendments, I'm not going to comment on them right now because I've only got three minutes left. I don't want to overstep time. I will only remind the National Assembly of the letter to the respected Mr Markovic, so it is addressed, and it was sent by Boris Tadic, president of the Republic, on 30 May 2005. He then informed parliament's then president that he would not sign the Law on Government, which states that the government oversees the constitutionality and legality of general acts of autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities, cities of Belgrade, public enterprises, public authorities, and that the government could suspend the exercise of their general acts, etc. because they are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Boris Tadic speaks in this letter to which members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia refer to his remarks. Nothing's changed today. You also have a bill that doesn't comply with the Constitution, only now it's the other members, now it's Article 167. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this letter, Tadic was a member of 125. The Constitution, then the Republic of Serbia. I would like, Mr. Balinovac, to answer us if you know what has changed, perhaps this will be answered by the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, what has changed in DS policy, what has changed in Boris Tadic's head, what is the difference, was he in his opinion on 30 May 2005, or was he in his opinion on 25 May 2007? It is now also his government, because DS representatives are in the government, and I am quite sure they are working on the orders of Boris Tadic, because he, you remember, has shown that he does not know what the president of the Republic is responsible for, so he publicly said on one television that he will replace ministers who are not doing what he expects them to do. Of course, we know the answer to this question. We know Boris Tadic didn't have an opinion either at the time. We know that Vojislav Kostunica didn't have an opinion at the time. We know that they go to Solana, to Ollie Reno, or they come here and serve their opinion. Mr. Dulic, 20 minutes and two seconds were when you knocked me out, and you know very well that I am very careful and that I look at the clock when I speak, either by the Rules of Procedure, or by this way. Keep an eye on it, don't play by accident to extend time to someone on this side for half a second. You'll have the Rules of Procedure again by morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-30-0.u2019	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given Article 98(2), the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. Since there have been many things in the debate that the MPs have said today, I have a need to consult with the Government on all of what you have said today. I'm taking a break. You'll be notified of the follow-up later. I'm asking the heads of parliament to have a meeting tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. to discuss it.
