ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10234	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 114 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the People's Messengers to establish the quorum. Since 99 MPs are present in the hall, working conditions have been met. I have no notice that the MPs were prevented from attending the session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Constitutional Court (resumption in principle) The word has a People's MP Bosko Ristic, followed by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10235	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Minister, it is difficult today to be good at exposing Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic, my party colleague, who really explained the reasons for the adoption of this law in an extraordinary way yesterday and the necessity of establishing the Constitutional Court as a very important state body or institution. On the side of the polemics about the character of the Constitutional Court, whether it is part of the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, what its character and essence of action is, I think, most importantly, for the citizens of Serbia, that without the Constitutional Court there is no protection of human and minority rights and freedoms, because the Constitution is a guarantee of human and minority rights and freedoms, and the Constitutional Court is the institution that should provide that protection. What's important in this law, it's the newspaper he's setting up. It is a constitutional appeal, which provides Serbian citizens with the ability to protect themselves from court failures, when courts work ineffectively or when citizens cannot exercise the right to timely justice within a reasonable time. In the situation that has so far been unclear and undefined, when citizens were unable to exercise their rights because of the lack of judicial protection of their rights, the legal gap has now been removed and, with the constitution of the Constitutional Court and the adoption of this law, citizens will be able to protect their constitutional and legal rights in every situation. So far, it has not been possible for citizens to exercise the right to compensation for the failure of state authorities or courts, nor have it been possible to seek in an adequate and efficient manner to speed up procedures in which public authorities or courts are obstructing, abuse of procedural powers or abuse of official office. In our legal practice, there was also no adequate protection against decisions made by congregation authorities and bodies. It was unclear what the authority was to protect the mandate of the MP. In our legal practice, both in congregation practice and in political practice, we had different attitudes, even at the time of the same legal standards. So there were different interpretations on the right of MPs to a parliamentary term, whether that mandate belonged to a MP or to parties, that was now defined by the Constitution, but it also defined the mechanism, by establishing or establishing a Constitutional Court, which will protect constitutional and legal solutions. This will ensure legal certainty, but it will also ensure political stability within the parliament itself because there will be no wandering and there will be no political negotiations on how a concrete legal-political situation should be addressed in relation to parliament's mandate. What is important is that the Constitutional Court will protect the human and minority rights guaranteed by the Constitution, as well as the freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the same constitution. The right of citizens to local self-government, the right of citizens to province autonomy and the restriction of state authorities are among the most significant constitutional powers given to citizens to organise local self-government, but also to gather within autonomous provinces in order to protect interest, in order to lower powers from central government authorities, to bring the authorities closer to citizens, to ensure transparency in handling and better control of public finances. The constitution gave the possibility that the executive power could suspend the execution of the act of the autonomous province. There is also the obligation of the executive authority to carry out, at the same time, a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the acts currently being suspended. It is a major and significant protection of the province's autonomy position within the Republic of Serbia. This prevents the volunteerism of the executive authority, which prevents the possibility that because there is a difference in the political composition of the republican executive authority or the executive authority in the province can lead to disagreements and malicious use of the powers arising from the Constitution. One of the newspapers is also the protection of the parliamentary mandate through appeal to the Constitutional Court. The confirmation of the mandate is now entrusted to the Assembly on the day of the establishment of the new assembly after the elections, at the first constitutional session, but also for the first time it was given the right to the MP, who was given the term of office or who had not received the mandate for some reason, that he could, through a constitutional appeal, protect his position and seek his right to take his place in this parliament. There is, above all, a secure protection of the position of small parties that have barely crossed the censorship, as it is possible to establish the Assembly by confirming two-thirds of the mandates, which would mean that the rest could go unsurpassed, in case the constitutional appeal was not provided, thus guaranteeing entry and small parties, with less support for the citizens in parliament, if they crossed the censorship. It is also important that the Constitutional Court will have the opportunity to resolve issues in electoral disputes as well. You know that our historical, political and legal experience says that in certain situations we had very serious electoral disputes that we had to solve even the pressure of a large number of citizens on the streets because, to remind you, in some local elections, there was a repeat third round, which no law had foreseen. There was a boycott of the election because of the malicious and misapplication of the law to the harm of the citizens. It also provided participation in the electoral disputes of any citizen who believes that stealing an electoral will violates his right to an active and passive electoral right, and can, through a constitutional appeal in an election dispute, address the Constitutional Court, which will guarantee the stability of the political system, as assumptions for the achievement of democracy in an open society, which is sought by civil society in Serbia. What is important, what I want to underline, is to protect the position of prosecutors and judges, which is provided by this law, because for the first time, judges and prosecutors have the right to exercise their right to exercise public judicial office in such a way that they can appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. So far, it has been impossible to protect itself from an irregular, illegal decision by the Great Personal Council, which can volunteer to decide on the resolution of a judge or prosecutor without the prosecutor or judge having the opportunity to conduct any procedure in order to protect his or her legal position and rights. I would not cite specific cases of this happening and that under political pressure some judges are being resolved without constitutional and legal mechanisms to protect the right to exercise judicial office. It is also very important for citizens that there is a possibility of compensation for damages in cases where the damage has arisen from the failure of state authorities or courts or because of the untimely conduct of courts and national authorities. Such examples are, above all, in criminal law where, due to the dispute of the courts on the lawsuit of private prosecutors, there is an obsolescence of the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, and then the applicants of the private suit, the damaged have no possibility of compensation for damages, because the guilt has not been found, and this has occurred because of the excessive delay of proceedings, unfounded delaying of the search and thus the individual loses the right. It's especially visible in those disputes where private prosecutors appear for a crime of defamation or insult. Very often, these private lawsuits are directed at those who can call for immunity. Many MPs called for immunity when they were in a situation of criminality in the courts, so because of the mechanism of establishing immunity, a large number of Serbian citizens were left without satisfaction and without being able to prove that what was said from this pay phone or at another public place, and what could have caused them or damaged them, was a criminal offence, and that these citizens affected by this criminal act, because of this one situation and legal void, had no opportunity to do that damage and compensation. Thus, in this way, the Constitutional Court and this law will ensure the equality of citizens before the law and the possibility of finding a responsible person in each situation who has done damage and that this damage is indeed compensated. Many things in our society are not perfect, there are many problems. There are disputes under the Sucession Agreement, there is inconsistencies and inconsistencies in applying the rules of the international legal order, so many of the procedures are interrupted. The constitution of interstate bodies, which should define the application of the Annex G Agreement, is awaited, in effect, from the judicial system and the judicial authorities, to resolve disputes for which the judicial authority and the judiciary are absolutely competent. I think this situation will no longer be so problematic, because we will have a Constitutional Court before which citizens, who are affected by the non-application of the Annex G Agreement, will be able to seek satisfaction and protection of their rights and decision-making by the Constitutional Court, which would oblige judicial authorities to act more quickly or adequately. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the right to even regional development. The constitution says we are obliged to pass a law that will ensure a balanced regional development. But how will citizens from the south or east of Serbia provide themselves with that constitutional right? How can a citizen from the south and east of Serbia, who lives in ten times more unfavourable economic opportunities and circumstances, from someone in Belgrade, Vojvodina or central Serbia, seek the achievement of his right to live in equal opportunities, with equal potential and equal chances? Unbalanced regional development puts Serbian citizens in an unbalanced position before the law and before the constitution. So far, there have been no constitutional mechanisms to achieve this right. I must say, here we have heard remarks and interpretations of the bill, from language, to logical, to purpose. They sought the hollowness and imperfection of this law, it indicated that the procedure before the Constitutional Court was unclear, that the appeal to the application of the legal rules of different procedures was unclear and that it created the possibility of volunteering in the conduct of the Constitutional Court. However, the character of disputes before the Constitutional Court is such that it is necessary to refer to the provisions of a wide variety of proceedings, depending on the case of the dispute before the Constitutional Court. It is clear from the legal rule that any legal gap will be resolved according to the most similar situation and according to the rules most similar and nearest procedure solved by the neighbouring, conditionally speaking, legal case. I think this law is good, that it's a good basis, that it creates assumptions for the constitution of the Constitutional Court. I believe that the motions of the candidate for the Constitutional Court judges are of real quality, and I expect that we will have a truly good composition of the Constitutional Court, which will provide both legal and political security. The DS will, by the logic of the matter, vote in favour of this law, but we expect support from other MPs in parliament as well. We believe that the adoption of this law is of general social interest and that all MPs who think well of Serbian citizens, who want to establish mechanisms to protect their civil rights and freedoms, who want to provide a mechanism for protecting and guaranteeing minority rights and freedom, should vote for this law. If the objections are meaningful and established, we will consider them. I received assurance from the minister that some amendments would be accepted. We don't want to be rigidly and strictly esteemed by the amendments to the opposition. On the contrary, we want general support, we want all of us to participate in a business that is good for the citizens of Serbia, we want to establish Serbia as an open society, with the rule of law, where the state will be a service of citizens, and citizens at the heart of the attention and political activity of this Parliament, but also executive authorities, whose power is limited and the Constitution, but accordingly, there must be an authority that will limit that power in accordance with constitutional and legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10236	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has been treating the importance of the constitutional court for seven years since the DOS came to power. This morning I heard the information published by some television in the morning program that we're a state that hasn't had a Constitutional Court in a year, which can only be seen so short-term. However, we were in a situation that for a long time, and on several occasions, especially during the anti-constitutional state of emergency in our country, we did not have the Constitutional Court, and that, not only us as a political party, who sent numerous statements and complaints to the non-existent Constitutional Court, but all citizens, state authorities, organisations and all those who had the opportunity and rights, and they had the previous constitution, were prevented from getting authentic interpretation and from deciding according to our complaints. Very often, what was mentioned by my distinguished colleagues and Mr Krasic and Mrs Radet, was that I think about deciding on the constitutional appeal, what the SRS complained about, from some quite parallel, to say, channels, and not from the institution for which everyone in this country's right, I think every responsible MP, anyone who deals with the work of the judiciary in this country, anyone who is at the beginning of the law school, and not talking about the holders of the highest functions in this area, believes that there should be, because the importance of the Constitutional Court for us, in fact, has caused us to seriously approach this bill, which was given by Mr Dusan Petrovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to submit 29 amendments. The amendments to the SRS, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen and seen, and I see that indeed some members of DS and DSS have carefully studied it, are both essential and legal-technical. They're all just not some formal character, because it wasn't our goal, as you know, it was your turn to deal with the Constitutional Court issue, because it was the obligation that came out of the Constitution, and for us it was the most important issue of all these seven years. Remember, you who were in that first term after the five-octobaric coup in power, how many times did the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and told you: and what to say and what to tell you when we don't have a Constitutional Court. And we don't have it today. So we entered into this problem fully aware that this law should not be one of those laws that within a few months or a year with some amendments and supplements to come before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but rather, that was our intention, that Mr Petrovic, the government and the competent ministry would understand that they had failed to agree with the osmack, let's say, some provisions of the Constitutional Law with the new Constitution, that some solutions must be done more precisely and that there should be no dilemma regarding certain solutions. We have begun the treatment of the amendment of the Constitutional Law of Article 13, of what is called the termination of the court's office in the Constitutional Court, which are the judges we have yet to choose. For those basic reasons, such as, God forbid, the death of the judge, through the fact that who can resolve the Constitutional Court judge, we have paid attention to the fact that it cannot be in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court to determine the termination of the judicial office, because he himself does not propose judges, but the competent state authorities do so. Thus, Mr Krasic asked that the draft law in Article 15(2) be deleted, because it is quite clear that "the fulfillment of the conditions for the ruling of the Constitutional Court", as you put Mr Petrovic in the bill, "the Constitutional Court", cannot survive in the bill. I believe that, like all others, you have seriously considered the issue of this amendment, because, as we are going to consider the proposal of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic this afternoon, and then the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Supreme Cassation Court, the Constitutional Court cannot consider whether or not the conditions have been obtained to be resolved from that function. He has the right to propose. It also explained in his amendment, counterpart Krasic, that a constitutional norm must be followed and that only the authorised proposer determines whether the conditions for termination of the judicial post have been met. That's the basic thing that we need to figure out at first, so we can move on. All these amendments treat almost all the chapters of the proposed law, with us insisting on one thing in particular. You will see, if you return to all these assembly discussions, to the announcements by the Rules of Procedure, on the insistence of Mr Dragan Todorovic to be taken seriously into consideration in violation of the Constitution and the law in the election of Zoran Alimpic for someone v.d. Mayor of Belgrade, then you will see that because of all future situations, no matter what the laws on territorial organisation and local self-government, on local elections, this law must have a special chapter, and what we have proposed to you after Article 90, which will deal with the issue of appeal proceedings for preventing the exercise of the authority of the AP and local self-government. They cannot be governed as one general constitutional appeal, because the authorities of the local self-government unit and the AP are in operation, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by the laws now in force and which will come, responsible before the Constitution and the law, and it cannot be an ordinary constitutional appeal. I think that you should separate this and accept this amendment submitted by Mr. Amjad Migati, our colleague, the MP of the SRS, to give importance to the Constitutional Court in resolving disputes, i.e. breaking the law when it comes to local authorities and the AP. Now we can come to one conclusion based on your presentations, and above all on the SRS, which is that the Constitutional Court is practically a fourth degree of judicial authority, we can say this, in a certain way, it comes out of the general framework of constitutional protection, because according to constitutional complaints, citizens and other bodies, or applicants of constitutional appeal, decide, but primarily because of the fact that it decides on the rights and obligations of citizens. We think we should do it that way, and that's why we wrote such fundamentally important amendments, to change the view of the Constitutional Court. In that sense, both expertise and competence, and the impartiality of the Constitutional Court judges must be raised to the highest level, and we will talk about candidates and their choice later. That's what our message to the voters is all about. The Constitutional Court, we say Serbian citizens, is a place where you will be able to protect your rights, if these people are, as we Serbian radicals want, doing objectively, professionally, competently and impartially their work, everywhere and at all times, that you do not have to address other international courts and seek protection before them, because the state of Serbia and the Constitutional Court at all times must guarantee your rights. We believe that the announcement by deciding on a constitutional appeal for the constitutional appeal applicant, Mr Petrovic, is very important. So it has to be eight days earlier because we have a bitter experience, as I said at the beginning, that we have learned from a variety of other sources, in some inappropriate ways, it was our ingenuity and the possibility of someone telling us. Indeed, I don't see why you wouldn't accept it as an amendment to the SRS if that decision were made in the Official Messenger. As someone here said yesterday, every loss of personal documents is being published in the paper, every law is being published in the Official Messenger, and, imagine, not when you are now complaining about a decision under the law and a constitutional appeal is passed. We've had many situations here, here we are as MPs, that we must protect our rights, the MPs of the SRS. You remember what the former president of the Assembly did to us and then the government, how basic rights were violated. So if the Rules of Procedure had survived, Mr. Petrovic, in this assembly meeting, the first after five-octobaric coup, we couldn't stand these amendments at all today. One MP could only speak, not another group of MPs, nor could we report to the Rules of Procedure. There are many other provisions and violations that, in the right way and in the short time, the political Constitutional Court, with Vučetić at the head, did not treat because they were selectively approached. I remember that we filed, say, an appeal to the Constitutional Court against the unconstitutional provisions of the Rules of Procedure which are contrary to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament, and the Court provided us with an answer to our appeal after a year and more, a strictly selective approach. Exactly how much democracy should be played, they gave us, because they say this can't, this can't, and enough of these controversial provisions. Both Mr Konstantinovic and all other colleagues from the DS and DSS must now take into account when proposing a new Rules of Procedure. You must not make the same mistakes that were made during that period, so immediately MPs have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court when they are to be established. As for this, for us very important, questions, we think about the process of resolving the President of the Republic, we believe that elections for the President of the Republic will follow sooner or later and we believe that the future elected president, after Boris Tadic, will certainly be Mr Tomislav Nikolic. We also believe that he will stick to the letters of the Constitution and the law, which should be passed on to the President of the Republic, and he will indeed be so safe and responsible in performing his presidency that he will not have to have the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a situation given to Article 118. The Constitution - to initiate a procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic. We don't write this for one person. The Constitutional Court Act, as well as the Constitution, is written for future generations, for the stability of the state, for our legal order and for the functioning of all state institutions. Since we started from when we participated in the writing of the Constitution, it is unacceptable for us to remain this provision in Article 93(4), where you say, 'If the Constitutional Court finds that the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic has been initiated in accordance with the Constitution and the law... '"That's impossible and it directly coincides with the Constitution. Because, Mr. Petrovic, the National Assembly is the one who has the authority to initiate the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Republic. Whatever he decides, we've been telling you for 17 years, he's told you so many times. Seselj, president of our party, whatever the National Assembly decides, needs a qualified majority in the National Assembly, the National Assembly is right. The Constitutional Court cannot appear now and say, "Yes, you have used the law of the Constitution, and we will now assess whether or not the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution and whether there is any indication that it should be resolved from the position of the President of the Republic." That's completely pointless. At any time, a hypothetically different majority of those who protect the authority of the President of the Republic and who are currently in place can be created. I really need to remind you that I'm doing a little digression, that we've had an incredible situation, remember last year. The rights of employees in Serbia have been reduced in the most rigorous way by Lalovic's laws. First, by the law when the one from Thessaloniki voted with a card, Novakovic from Novi Sad, then after the amendment and addition of the Labour Act. At one point in time, it was in March 1995, the assembly majority was created to vote on individual amendments to the SRS and the SPS and to return to workers the rights that existed under the former law, and as regards annual holidays, overtime, regressions and all non-social givings, but are very important from the field of labour law and the possibility of people using it in the country where they work, those who work at all. These millions and something that's left in your possession without a job, they can't hope for anything. In March 2005, we voted, even you who were the idea makers of the first law, so you forged it with the non-existent voice of this Thessaloniki-based Novakovic, even your DS MPs voted in favour of these amendments along with Serbian radicals and SPS. What happened? You remember, Mr Petrovic, he appeared after two months of Slobodan Lalovic. They were grasping the head, Kostunica, Lalovic, Dinkic, who were then in power, I think Kostunica's government, whose continuity you are now continuing and saying -- yes, at that moment the National Assembly crossed us, created one majority that night, after we voted late at night, let me now through the amendment and addition of the Labour Act all to go back to the past. You now see how bold it was and how someone is playing with the will of the MPs. It can really happen in the future, but it will cost every future government that acts like that. As if you now, and you have not ruled out the possibility of not accepting the SRS amendments, come out as a resolution minister and say - I do not accept any amendments to Serbian radicals. But I was informed and you said yourself that you were considering, I urge you to accept all the amendments, because they were really professionally written, with the intention of correcting the law, that it would be great for the citizens and for the state of Serbia at all. These men of yours won't listen to you. Bosko watched the amendments, as did Mr Konstantinovic. Mrs. Kolundzija recommends to the parliamentary group and says - but radical amendments are good, as they are. You accept all the amendments and you show up after a few months as a resolute minister, ask for changes and additions and return to this old one. That's pointless, Mr. Minister. I wanted to use this example to tell you how crazy it is, I have to use that term, that anyone is thinking about destroying the will of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which is clearly confirmed at a certain point. And if the MPs have launched an initiative to resolve the President of the Republic, then the Constitutional Court cannot decide as a predecessor whether it was this or that reason, which is why we were motivated. We're motivated by the fact that we looked and he didn't stick to the letter of the Constitution. What I'm about to finish, so other colleagues from the SRS who need to speak would take advantage of their time, so that each of us can talk about this for at least an hour, that's organ jurisdiction. Don't take that as some kind of comment from the pay phone right now, because you don't have an SRS amendment in that sense, so now I'm asking you to come out and say, "We're going to change that by some government amendment." I think it can create a major problem in the functioning of the authority, because you only predicted the situation when two authorities come forward unauthorized and then the Constitutional Court comes into a situation to decide which one of these two authorities is in charge. You didn't predict the situation, Mr. Minister, when they declare that they're in charge, so they keep working. Who's going to decide that then, you understand? They will probably find the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court judges some method for those in that given situation to decide on, but we in the SRS believe that you had to treat this issue much more seriously, so that the Constitutional Court would not, in the nature of its responsible job of the future, some of the situations that the Constitution allows them to be like this or like this and not always interpret it in the same way. Because later and the consequences of the decision on jurisdiction of the two authorities to be declared or not declared competent can be far-reaching. We as responsible people and MPs who really care that Serbia by letter of the Constitution has a Constitutional Court that everyone will be proud of, as I said, that is the fourth degree of judicial protection - that every citizen of Serbia knows at all times that he can constitutionally appeal to protect his constitutional and legal rights. I believe that at the end of the discussion in this principle debate you will be able to give us some clues about it and based on these additional arguments of what you are prepared to accept. I call once again on you to accept all amendments to the SRS, because they are fundamentally very important and are exclusively in line with what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and for a law that will certainly be for the benefit of the entire state and of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10238	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Slobodan Maras, and then by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10239	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 200. Yesterday I did a commercial on that Rules of Procedure when I was coming down from a congregation pay phone. You, Mr. Petrovic, told me - if the chairman, Mr. Albianic, would then allow you to answer that question, of course with a smile. You didn't do it. There's no need to quote that article now, because I quoted it yesterday. So I didn't get an answer to the question I asked on October 9th from this congregation pay phone. I hope that the answer to this question will also raise the question -- how it is possible that the first indictee for the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic can give interviews that have been coming out for months, 400 answers to 400 questions, etc. I'm glad to hear from you right now, from where I am, that the answer to that question will come. We'll be here today, so I hope we can talk about it if we're not satisfied or if we're satisfied, we'll thank you. I also wanted a little bit about this Constitutional Law, since unfortunately LDP has spent what little time it has, and we would like to say a lot about this constitutional court law and the other laws proposed at this session. The essence of what our remark is is that this looks very political to us and we really tried to fix this law with a large number of amendments, over 30, as much as possible. I'd just like to make some basic remarks. We all know that the Constitutional Court counts 15 judges. We will now have 10, if we pass a proposal that will soon be in front of us, we will be missing another five to choose from the Supreme Court of Cassation and therefore we are going to start to do some work without enough constitutional judges, so we will have a problem, we will be missing five judges of the Constitutional Court, and that is something that, if we start with that, won't end well. Of course we shouldn't wait and, of course, it's important that we have the Constitutional Court as soon as possible, but I think in all this time that's been a couple of months we could try to make that mistake right, too, or we could just try to get there. What would I mention as something that bothered me a lot? I wrote one amendment on the subject, which is one inaccuracies in the law itself. It is a matter of Article 45(1) of point 4 which provides that the Constitutional Court hereby states that the statute of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government or other general act is not in accordance with the law, or that at the time of validity it was not in accordance with the law. ''I think the term consent, i.e. the essence of the term consent, is completely wrong. It may occur that some law, which does not apply at all to the issues of the autonomous province, does not, for example, agree with the statute of the autonomous province and thus, that the statute of the autonomous province, i.e. that provision, falls. I think it's much better to take advantage of the words "if it's the opposite," but I think there's going to be a chance, that you've certainly read all the amendments carefully, including those that the LDP has submitted, and that you'll pay attention to that and correct that mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10240	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10241	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 201. I asked some questions, I didn't get an answer. The questions are about what's on the agenda. Here, let me ask you another question. Mr. Minister, is it true that the former President of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Slobodan Vučetic, who retired 13 months ago, is today receiving the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court in the amount of about 230 thousand dinars? If true, how is that possible, how is that possible in a situation where employees in the judiciary have 15-16 thousand dinars a month's salary? Please give us an explanation of that. Furthermore, here it has been discussed, with a lot of enthusiasm, about what the future Constitutional Court will do, among other things, and what the accent has been put on, which is a decision by constitutional appeal. Mr. Minister, the question is logical, do you think that the judges of the Constitutional Court could only have been elected by candidates who have passed a judicial exam? Out of these 20 more than 10 candidates, there are no legal exams. They weren't in court, they weren't in court, and they weren't in court on the water and garbage info suit, and now they're going to decide on other people's fates. No court case was ever held in their hands. Are we going back to the time of the Joint Labour and lay trial or at a time when, say, the late Mr. Butulija, as an economist, was the President of the Constitutional Court? So, an expert co-worker in court, I'm not belittled, in the farthest town in Serbia, in Gajina Han, must have a judicial exam, but not a judge of the Constitutional Court. Article 50 provides for a two-thirds majority to initiate a constitutional procedure initiated by the Constitutional Court itself. Here we have a choice of members of the future octrolic or the back court. If one man is missing, because the two-thirds majority is 10, and one, for whatever reason, can't act and work, means they can't start the procedure and the initiative. Just at the end of something, Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, visiting on a show last night, was surprised, or could not explain what I had said earlier, that in a year or two more candidates would get a condition for retirement. Why are we choosing pensioners for the Constitutional Court, whose deadline will be set by law for nine years? I know G17 doesn't deal with small numbers, but it can be read in biographies when people get a condition to retire.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10242	Members of the Rules of Procedure from 198 to 202 are scheduled for parliamentary matters, which is the sixth item of the agenda of this sitting. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I request a few notices from Mr Dusan Petrovic, so that I can carry out my role as MP. It's about Article 86. The draft law on the Constitutional Court, the Members of the Democratic Party, is something very funny, the constitutional appeal does not, as a rule, prevent the application of an individual act or action against which it has been declared. I remind Minister Dusan Petrovic that the basic rule in all procedural laws is that every complaint has so-called. the suspension fact and that the lodging of the complaint delays the enforcement of the act against which the appeal has been made. I do not understand why this procedural rule, which also applies in the Law on Criminal Procedure, Criminal Procedure and General Administrative Procedure, etc., has not been incorporated into the Constitutional Court law, since the Constitutional Court has also appealed to any other appeal, and such as the Constitutional Court. When a citizen declares a constitutional appeal, Mr. Minister, then we can assume that it is an extremely delicate legal situation and that and that there is a need for an appeal against an act, a constitutional complaint, to have a suspended fact. I have a few more questions. As regards Article 106, when the Constitutional Court finds that the competent authority has not adopted a general act implementing the provisions of the Constitution, law or other general act and has been obliged to adopt such a general act, it shall inform the National Assembly thereof. Now one logical question is asked, and what will happen when the National Assembly does not pass laws, or other acts to which it is bound under the Constitution? People's MPs, Mr. Minister, from the SRS, have in the past few months shown in many cases that the Constitutional Law has been violated and that the National Assembly, or National Assembly President, did not respect the deadlines set by the Constitutional Law and did not put on the agenda of the National Assembly draft laws to which it was bound under the Constitutional Law. Then the logical question arises - what will happen when the National Assembly is the body that violates the Constitution, or constitutional law, and when it does not adopt those acts that are necessary to be adopted under the Constitutional Law. You, Mr. Minister, did not foresee such a provision in the Constitutional Court Bill, and you had to predict, because you have the President of the National Assembly, or the Assembly majority, who is obviously irresponsible and does not care about the deadlines of the Constitutional Law. I'm sorry, just one more sentence. Reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure: the law is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure on the basis of deadlines provided for in Article 9. Constitutional law; the adoption of the law by emergency procedure will create all necessary conditions for the constitutional court's constitution and start of work. The National Assembly, Mr. Minister, had to pass this law much earlier. If I am not mistaken, this is the Third Session of the Second Regular Session, and this was to be adopted in the course of the Second Session after the Government's election, and this provision is in the statement that it is necessary to adopt the law by an urgent procedure, which is ridiculous, because the National Assembly, the blame of the National Assembly president and the assembly majority, has violated, or overrun, all reasonable deadlines for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10244	Mr Martinović, as for you, as well as all, that 225, 226 and the members of 198 to 202 belong to the 6th item of the agenda – parliamentary issues. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: May I answer? You can't answer that, thank you. National MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225 of Section 1, and I'm asking the chairman, if he doesn't know what it says in the Rules of Procedure, to read and explain to us a little bit of the Rules of Procedure, but not from the chair, but to take the floor, so he can come out and tell us something. Namely, dear fellow MPs, today is November 9th, World Fascism Day. Since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted amendments and additions to the State Holidays Act several days ago and once again found that on May 9, the Day of Victory over Fascism, the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia, we at the SPS wanted to remind you, and you were present and the public of the Republic of Serbia, that today is November 9th, World Day against Fascism. Why November 9th? November 9th because it is a day marked on a day of memory of Nazi rampage on the streets of German cities in 1938, of an event known as "cristal night". That day, systematically supported violence against the Jews reached culmination, making it a decisive step forward, as the Nazis then said, towards a final solution to the Jewish issue. A key step, of course, towards Auschwitz, Mathausen, Bergen Belzen, Jasenovac and other fascist slaughterhouses. That's why November 9th, the day that stands as a clear warning to all mankind, that "cristal night" and everything that preceded that night and followed after that night should simply not be repeated. I mention this fully aware of the reality in the world, unfortunately in Serbia as well. We must conclude that, unfortunately, in Serbia after 21 December 2004, when the Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on the Rights of Military Disabilities Fighters and members of their families, which equalised the rights of NoB members and holders of the Ravnogorska Monument, means those who fought against Fascism and those who were with them, and after the adoption of the Rehabilitation Act, it must be said that Serbia has silenced the marking of all those events from World War II that were marked by the fight against fascism. I'm not saying this by accident, so don't think that what happened in New Sad is something that's isolated and that's going to go unnoticed. For those who do not know, I would like to warn them that the Council of Europe has appeared on what happened in Novi Sad and that the Monitoring Committee of this organisation will visit Serbia in early November, with a special emphasis on Vojvodina, to examine, among other things, the rise of neo-Nazi incidents. After all, it becomes obvious that, unfortunately, our authority will have to deal with this issue. What happened in Novi Sad, repeatedly commented here, I won't repeat it, but I am fully convinced that these misapplications will end up in the judges' drawers, that they will be covered by dust and that the whole event will be followed in the way that it was sent to the media, so, with a lot of stories and no substance. We Socialists think that this should not and that the state of Serbia should mark both this and other days against fascism, and absolutely stand in the way of such phenomena, so that history does not repeat itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10246	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. I guess I hurt your dignity when I said you couldn't answer. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10247	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, last time I checked in, I'm reporting from an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Albianic, I didn't ask a parliamentary question. I used the right of the Rules of Procedure to be informed by Minister Dusan Petrovic about the issues necessary for the exercise of the post of MP. The role of the MP includes, among other things, the vote on the bill. I asked Mr. Minister to inform me of some of my concerns about the bill, so if he convinces me, I might vote in favour of the Constitutional Court bill. Therefore, I did not obstruct the work of the National Assembly. I simply tried to use my right to get a notice from Mr. Secretary so I could make the right decision in the voting day. As for what Mr. Zarko Obradovic said, I must say, Mr. Obradovic, you are wrong. If yesterday, as the whole of Serbia watched Dr Vojislav Seselj's opening statement in the process before The Hague tribunal, you could hear, the Serbian people had two anti-fascist movements in World War II, Partizan, or communist and Montenegrin. And the Partisan movement only won because Western allies betrayed Serbian nationalists and supported the Partisans for trading with Stalin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10248	Replica, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10249	Thank you, fellow People's Parliament, for mentioning that. Unfortunately, I must tell you, with all due respect to Mr. Seselj's political views, that what he said history did not confirm and that it remains an individual attempt to revise history that failed. It is not a matter of the SPS, nor of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, history has shown something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10250	National MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the sixth section of the Constitution deals with the Constitutional Court and the significant number of provisions contained in the sixth section are according to their legal nature and, normally, refer to the law. Analyzing the law and the constitution, I noticed some legal inconsistencies. Namely, in Article 171. The constitution says - the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is governed by law, and the law does not say anything concrete about it, but says that the execution of the Constitutional Court's decision will be provided by the government, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Article 172. The Constitution shall be governed by the composition of the Constitutional Court, the selection and appointment of Judges of the Constitutional Court. It's logical that now it's the law that will arrange the procedure for selecting judges. However, the law deals with this problem only in one article, that is Article 11 and that is, in paragraph 1, in which it points to the Constitution, which is scandalous, you will agree, you are a colleague, a lawyer and you know that a lower legal act cannot refer to a higher legal act. I wanted to draw your attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10252	National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Nikola Žutic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10253	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, apparently there are some who, based on some earlier divisions that have brought misfortune to the Serbian people, and today to try to eventually win a part of the electoral body, so they re-emerge, that is, some of the things history has already solved, whether you want it or not, even solved this assembly. Under the law, the rights of both Partisans and Chetniks, namely the Montenegrin fighters, are equal. Whether it's someone's sad or not, it's... (President: Please don't throw it away. )......................................................................................................... Now another thing. Never in one single thing does everyone think the same thing. That's a fact. At least one thing should be accepted, it was an accident for the Serbian people, a division that really brought us a lot of evil, a lot of suffering. That division wasn't just with us, there were more states and there were other peoples where there were such divisions, even much earlier than what happened to us, but they realize it caused irreparable damage to both the state and the people, and they're trying to overcome it. Don't accuse one side or the other now, claim that one side is better or worse. The facts are what they are. Someone wants to accept them, and someone won't. The fact is that there were two anti-fascist movements in Serbia, ideologically completely different. One was Partisan, the other was Chetnic. Only because of the betrayal of Western allies and, among other things, you should remember Dedier, as this book called him, "The Contributions to the Biography of Josip Broz Tito", when in 1943 a declaration came to the fighters of Draža Mihailovic, there are some who still remember how it was possible to suddenly accept those who were in the Montenegrin movement, if they were fascist fighters, to move to the Partisans. It was the policy of the West, which divides us day and day and tries to bring this people to ruin. I think we should put these things aside, they won't bring us any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10254	I understand that the 104th member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. The word is by MP Nikola Žutic, according to the Business, and then by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10255	Ladies and gentlemen, the stereotype of Chetnik fascism has been historically broken for ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10256	You must say a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10257	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10258	It can't be a replica. Why are you throwing, Miss Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10259	In the 1970s, a stereotype of Chetnik fascism was broken by professor Dr. Jovan Marjanovic, a regular professor of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade. He was part of the Partisan ranks, which means left-handed. The next person to break the stereotype of Chetnik fascism was my mentor professor, Dr Branko Petrovic. Also, left-handed. So the Serbian people had two anti-fascist movements -- Chetniks and partisans. The Chetnik antifascism doesn't need much talking. As a historian, I would only point out that their headquarters during World War II was in London, the refugee government and the king, that the Chetniks participated in the 27th March actions, that they celebrated the holiday of March 27th on Serbian free mountains, as they said. So it's historically long ago determined by the partisan leftist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10260	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't understand fellow radicals. I came out to warn Serbia of a significant date in world history. There's no need for you to explain to me what happened in World War II and to appeal to the Parliament's decision. History solved it. No congregation in the world can make any decision that can change the course of history. The two anti-fascist movements existed in the first months of 1941, and then the thing turned around, some fought from London, and some fought on the territory of then-Yugoslavia fighting Fascism. I really don't need to discuss it with you. After all, as much memory serves me, and it still serves me, when there was a debate about that law, you didn't participate in the debate to tell us what you're telling us now, and it lasted four or five days. So, don't use your later wisdom to contact us and tell us what happened. You have your political confidence, and I respect that. But history cannot be a matter of one political belief. History has solved it in itself, and it is up to us to accept it or not to accept it. Let everyone experience it and mark it as they wish. That's the freedom of an individual. I'm just saying, and I'm absolutely convinced that unfortunately, in Serbia, there is one major revision of everything that happened during World War II. Why did only the SPS and the Social Democratic Party vote against the law? For the simple reason they appreciate that what happened during World War II cannot change and change a congregation decision, let alone end it. The whole world celebrates days of fighting fascism, and as very important dates not only in the history of world civilization, but also as a contribution to the development of democracy in the world. It is up to us in Serbia to join or not to join. Let each judge properly. We Socialists want to tell Serbia that today is one date of such character, of world importance, to be marked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10262	National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I hope we've contributed enough to these historical facts. We could keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10263	It's very short. Article 225. I'd like to give you one piece of information, and it seems to me that this debate on the acquisition, I don't know, patriotism and the struggle for the freedom of the Serb people by the Partisans and Chetniks has gone a little wrong. I have to tell you, now that we're fighting to prove that the Chetniks were anti-fascists a long time ago. On September 12, 1944, the king of London invited all units under his command to join the Partisan squad. All those who joined the partisan units by September 12, 1944, who were then considered the only one in the fight for the freedom of the Serb people and, let's say, the official international community, that is, recognised by the then great forces as fighters in the anti-fascist struggle, were equally and freed from all responsibilities, provided they did not commit crimes. We are talking here about a number of people who have not accepted and disobeyed the orders of their commander-in-chief, the king, to join the Partizan units and to leave the battle in Chetnik units. Those who did so after 12 September 1944 are considered terrorists, and we cannot talk about them as freedom fighters. I'm just telling you, as far as the Chetniks are concerned by September 12, 1944, they're even with the Partisans long ago. So let's not deepen the debate. Let us not today, in 2007, share this poor and divided Serbia on many issues on one issue that we have long closed down and should have put into history long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10264	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please go to the scene, I said constructive discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has spoken its word on who the anti-fascists were in Serbia. The National Assembly confirmed that antifascists were also partisans, but that they were also Chetniks, or members of the Montenegrin movement. I don't know, Mr. Obradic, what history you're talking about, if history is Velko Bulajic's films, then I don't think you're right. History confirmed, Mr. Obradovic, that the Chetnik rifle against the Germans in Serbia had been fired before Partizanska and that Colonel Draža Mihailovic came to Ravna Gora in May 1941, when communist movement leader Josip Broz Tito sat in Pavelic's Zagreb. In 1943, French Resistance leader Charl de Gaulle decorated General Draž Mihailovic with the Order of the "War Cross", and in July 1943, when the Chetniks already sided with the Germans, the German commander of Serbia announced a warrant for General Draža Mihailovic's head. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10266	National MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't spread the subject, I guess it's clear that there are different discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10267	I must tell you, fellow chairman, and other respected fellow Members of the People, that this story really isn't hard for me. I don't find this story difficult, but it's really interesting to me, I won't say surprising, since that process already exists. I find it interesting to see the perseverance I want, to say, one party policy translated into a state policy. For nothing, Mr. Martinovic. It's very incorrect that story about Veljak Bulajic, because it seems to me in those 7-8 days, when that law was here on the agenda, I was very actively involved and quoted all possible sources, or at least a part, because there are very many of them, to prove some of my thesis. I didn't hear it then, from those who voted in favour of the law, and from those who had a different opinion, that they had proven a different attitude. You're free. I really can't understand you. The occasion was... My colleague Jovanovic, if you have anything, come out here. Do not abuse the office of the chairman. Get out of the habit of throwing aside, come out here and tell me what you've got. You can't increase the strength of the arguments by your numbers. That's what you do here and the facts. If someone gets upset that today is November 9th, World Fascism Day, what do I do to them? It's his personal matter, but history can't change. This is where one fundamental mistake is made, the decision of the Serbian Parliament, however much we respect it, cannot change history. So, it's not Zarko Obradovic, they're not Socialists, not even the people of Serbia set the place for Yugoslavia in the People's Liberation War and in the events that occurred during World War II, history has set. And what anyone likes or doesn't like, what we do, that's life. We don't like many things, but history has its own judgment on it. So history has given its assessment and I only tried today, and this is interesting that I have caused these reactions, to warn the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it is worth respecting what happened during World War II in these areas and to appreciate the people who participated in the fight against fascism, as the greatest evil of the 20th century, and who have made their contribution and the development of civilization and democratic values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10268	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Zarko Obradovic, from the scene: Who answered first? Wait a minute, Miss Jovanovic. Mr. Baralic, I've been waiting to see if you'll pick up or maybe you've given up? I have the order - Misa Petronijevic, Svetlana Kitic, Rajko Baralić, Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Todorovic, Aleksandar Martinovic and other MPs. Is there any more in the Rules of Procedure? Please, I'm taking a five-minute break to calm down, so we'll keep working. Thank you. [[After break – 11.25.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I hope we've given up reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10270	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope we've now brought the ball down to the ground and we will return to the topic, the first item of the agenda of this session, and that is the draft law on the Constitutional Court. It is clear to us that this law must be adopted, that the legal system in the Republic of Serbia should be rounded up after the adoption of the Constitution and after the previous independence of the Serbian state, to obtain the highest judicial authority in the state, which will appreciate the constitutionality and legality of certain acts, individual, general, state bodies, autonomous province, local authorities, public enterprises, entrepreneurs, etc. I hope that very soon after the adoption of this law, the judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected and will begin to make decisions, solving many cases, which are certainly in front of the Constitutional Court at the moment. Everyone in this country, who thinks well of this country, certainly wasn't easy and was not for this country to have no Constitutional Court and not to solve many of the cases found in the Constitutional Court. In my presentation, I will not stick to some questions that have already been elaborated by many fellow MPs. I will simply try to draw attention to a few things that are interesting in this bill, and it is certainly important that this law has taken over many provisions of the already existing Constitutional Court Act. There is this newspaper that has been discussed, such as the constitutional appeal, the right to a constitutional appeal, the right to resolve complaints by prosecutors and court officials, when one of their rights has been violated. What I would point to is a minister when it comes to amendments, which there are many, to eventually adopt some amendments that do not change the essence of the law but improve the text, so that the law is better and more reasonable and that we do not come into a situation to change it very quickly. In Article 16 of this Law, a provision was taken from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which may be the holder of the functions of the Constitutional Court judge. It has been said that no one but the professors, or those who have a profession in law school, can. I agree with that, but I think it should be an exception, so that we don't get most of the Constitutional Court judges made up of law professors, who are already engaged in their work, whether as regular or as extraordinary professors. Normally, the possibility is that those who can devote themselves to both work and other work have the right to at least be candidates and be elected judges of the Constitutional Court. Article 34 of this Act lays down the time limit for the holder of the contested act to deliver that act and other documents to the Constitutional Court and cannot be shorter than 15 days. But the deadline is expendable, because beyond that, it says that the Constitutional Court will oblige the holder of the act, individually or in general, to deliver the act. I think that, in my opinion, I say well-intentionedly, I said in the beginning that we in the Unique Serbia would support this law, but it was still meant to give some deadline over which the Constitutional Court could not cross, whether it would be 60, 90 or not, that it would not be quite a stretching deadline and not be resolved from case to case. Purely well-intentioned suggestion. I would stick to the provisions of this draft law concerning the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court for a little longer. Before that, I would refer to the practice so far, because I spent many years in the economy, I was also a participant in many requests for the assessment of the constitutionality of certain general acts before the Constitutional Court. It happened that, despite the Constitutional Court’s decision, the decision, the decision, and order the act maker to comply with the Constitution’s provisions, which do not comply with the provisions of the Constitution and with the positive regulations, it is very often kept on paper and certain legal acts and certain persons have suffered certain damages because the provisions of certain acts which do not comply with the Constitution and the law have been applied. Therefore, I think that in Article 62, at the end, where it is said that the Constitutional Court can determine that these consequences are removed by vomiting in the previous state of damages, or by other means, that there is a sentence that the Constitutional Court must determine, that we do not leave the possibility of resolving this issue from case to case, but rather that the court must determine, if the adverse consequences have arisen, or the consequences may arise, that the solution should be ordered to remove them. I wouldn't talk about the constitutional appeal, because there's already been a lot of speeches about the right to a constitutional appeal. What makes me a dilemma is known that in Serbia we like to sue and judge over many things, and we regret to the higher authorities, that with regard to individual acts, when many are not satisfied with the act adopted by a lower authority, they will very often reach out for speaking to the Constitutional Court, using the law, and especially since the bill proposed and the right not to, when a court case is brought in one or more of these cases within a reasonable period of time, for some reason, the dissatisfied party may ask the Constitutional Court to assess whether it is right or not. To conclude, since we have spent a lot of time on other things and also on the proposal of this law, which is certainly very important, to conclude once again that the Members of the Single Serbia, who are at the DSS-NS Parliament Club, will support this law for the reason that we want this state to finally get a Constitutional Court and to round up its legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10271	The word is made by MP Petar Jojic, and then by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw attention to some questions and my observations regarding the work of the Constitutional Court and the procedure before the Constitutional Court. The political climate for large legislative ventures today is not favourable. Serbia has not had a Constitutional Court for a long time, because it does not work, the authorities of the judicial authority envisioned by the new constitution, such as the Supreme Cassation Court, the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors, have not yet been formed, and the old Supreme Court of Serbia and the High Council are working without sufficient capacity. In addition to the public prosecutor's law, other new judicial laws should be passed, and, above all, the law on courts, on judges, on the Constitutional Court, on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, on the State Council of Prosecutors and other judicial laws should be brought into line with the new Constitution. The constitutional law implementing this constitution provides for the resolution of the current and election of new presidents of all Serbia's courts, as well as public prosecutors, as well as the selection of all judges and deputy public prosecutors, i.e. the resolution of the existing and the selection of new ones. In the atmosphere of uncertainty, which is caused by this in the ranks of the judicial staff, the change of regulations creates additional confusion. Before applying, new regulations must be studied in detail. Who can study them? Judges and prosecutors leaving or those who need to come. It particularly concerns the situation in the Serbian Constitutional Court. Since the end of 2000, the Constitutional Court of Serbia has long failed to function at all, not just once, but several times. The first time from February 2001 to August 2002, then from October 2006 to the election of new judges that should not be expected, as seen, before the end of 2007. The constitutional court has been blocked for various reasons, and in recent times the Constitutional Court has practically stopped working after his president retired. Since October 2006, although there are enough judges to continue working and deciding, according to the Constitutional Court Procedure Act and the legal action of its decisions, a session of the Constitutional Court shall be scheduled by the President or the Judge who replaces it, as provided for in Article 43. But the Court has interpreted that a deputy president can only exist when there is a President of the Constitutional Court, and not when he is not there, so that the court cannot work until a new president is elected, because there is no person authorised to appoint a sitting. Meanwhile, the new constitution, which provides for the President of the Constitutional Court to be elected by judges of its composition, as provided for in Article 172, paragraph 7, but nothing has changed in the Court. The Constitutional Court has not amended its decision on the organisation of the Constitutional Court, as provided for in Official Messenger 56/02, which it makes, so it can change it itself, and whose article 11 allegedly was the basis for forward interpretation, and the judges did not take advantage of the possibility to choose their own president by means of a direct application of the Constitution and to continue their work. For such a policy and for the above reasons, Serbia today doesn't have a Constitutional Court in fact for a year. The Constitutional Court of Serbia was established on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as an independent body that must be the institution of constitutional protection, whose primary function should be the security and respect of the Constitution and the law, which are in accordance with the Constitution, which norms to protect constitutionality to be entrusted to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court should ensure the smooth exercise of the Constitution of established rights and duties of all legal and natural persons. Among these rights and duties, it is particularly important to have the power to adopt normative and individual acts by the competent authorities. The Constitutional Court should ensure the smooth exercise of these powers and prevent them from being overrun. In fulfilling its function, the Constitutional Court not only agrees with the acts of the lower bodies with the acts of the higher authorities, but provides constitutional rights for all state, social and physical entities and protects the freedoms and rights of citizens. The position of the Constitutional Court: it is the body of the constitutional system. The independence of the Constitutional Court should be examined, first of all, in that no body, nor the Assembly, should have the right to influence the work of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court must act independently and determine its organisation and procedure before the same court, as ordered by the law. The jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is to decide both on the consent of the law with the Constitution and on the consent of other regulations and general acts with the Constitution and the laws. The Constitutional Court also resolves conflicts of jurisdiction if they arise in the case where a regular court and some other state authorities simultaneously accept jurisdiction in the same case, which is a positive conflict of jurisdiction, i.e. if a court and another state body are simultaneously declared competent, which is so-called. a negative conflict of jurisdiction. The Serbian Constitutional Court should monitor phenomena of interest in achieving constitutionality and legality and inform the National Assembly of the conditions and problems of achieving constitutionality and legality, and give the Assembly an opinion and proposals for the adoption and amendment of laws and other measures to ensure constitutionality and legality. The Constitutional Court shall decide, as is known, in the form of decisions and solutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer a little bit to the fact and historical circumstances of the origin of constitutionality and legality, from which the countries of the European Community, countries with developed democracy, are encouraging just a certain constitutional and democratic principle of the creation of constitutionality and legality. The social background of judges and proposals for change; most now English judges are men, although there are several judges of the High Court's wives; an alarming fact makes out of a total of 1,629 professional judges from a few years ago of all levels only 71 women and four blacks. Lately, however, the number of barista women has increased and currently has 696, so women are more often placed in the highest court positions, and can soon be expected even greater. School education is a good indicator of the social and economic class of origin, so data has been reported that, since 1820, there has been a constant high percentage of judges who attended private schools – 68%, with also a steady high percentage of members of the profession that once graduated from Oxford or Cambridge – 74%. Dale, four out of five judges are the product of this elite education, after which, as a legal obligation, is followed by the career of a barista, which is also a privileged profession, so organized that in the beginning it excludes anyone who in any way does not fit the profession. Barrier call, these are younger lawyers who are taught, who are trainees and who gain knowledge. The Barrier's call to England is at least at first financially invaluable, i.e. it does not give the beginner a chance to support the work quite a number of years. This all means that the family from which the judge comes must first be rich enough and influential enough to pay for decades of expensive elite schooling, in order to support the barista until his middle age. So it's about members of a narrow layer of British society, who can give their descendants such a privilege and such a career. In addition to homogeneity, cultural and educational origin, judges are homogeneous by age. Usually the judge, ladies and gentlemen, becomes in England at the age of 52 or 53. The average age of all judges is 60 years and the judge of the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords between 65 and 68 years. England is seven times bigger than Serbia, and now there are approximately 1,900 judges, while our Serbia has, by some estimates, no accurate data, close to 3,000, with judges for violations. It has been recorded, ladies and gentlemen, one opinion since the 17th century, from that time when it is true that the wisest people usually create the right, that it is true and that the strongest interpret and apply the right. The main issue of the constitutional issue of that century was - to whom to fall control of the law, which implies both its aspects - legislative and judicial. However, ladies and gentlemen, the past has not been forgotten, so it remains noted that in the 9th century, during just one year, the Saxon King Alfred sentenced 44 judges to hanging, so three to four a year for the murders committed by the wrong judgments of these judges. The rest, ladies and gentlemen, recorded in the history of justice that Henry the Sixth said the first thing he would do would be to kill all the lawyers and save his kingdom from them. Of course, the threat has not been met, but its existence speaks of the mood that this ruler had for the lawyers and those who advocated the exercise of rights and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few more notes. When you look at 15 candidates for judges, Mr Batic spoke about them, their qualifications, their expertise and their age. If the proposed candidates are elected, the Constitutional Court's work will slow down as early as next year, if people meet the requirements for retirement -- a new choice of judges must be made. It's not clear what the point is now, who's supposed to point here, that we now choose people who in exactly one year won't be able to do the job. Besides, the people who come to the Constitutional Court are people who didn't work in the Constitutional Court, no continuity. Secondly, you have in the first place, if this assembly adopts this bill at this session, the situation that we will have 10 judges of the Constitutional Court, and five judges should choose, so one third, a Cassation Court that we do not have. It's very problematic, ladies and gentlemen, that we have 1,000 pending cases in the Constitutional Court, judges don't do their jobs for years, they receive high wages, they have great privileges. The question arises: whose fault did these people enjoy such privileges, and the drawers contained objects relating to the protection of constitutionality and legality or the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of certain general or individual acts? That's very problematic. On the other hand, the following question arises: what will the 10 judges now do, there are a thousand pending cases, and according to the provisions of this constitution, a constitutional appeal is allowed. Count, according to the efficiency of judicial authorities and regular courts, that we will now have inflation, a large number of constitutional complaints -- that number of people can't solve it. In spite of their best wishes, they can't solve it. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the shortness of time and my colleagues who will talk about this bill, I will speak in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10273	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica, followed by Momir Markovic, an SRS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10274	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a draft law on the Constitutional Court, which should create the necessary conditions for the constitution of the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court, which has not been established so far, should be an independent body, as said by the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia, whose primary task is to ensure the protection of constitutionality and legality, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all within the framework of its Constitution and the law of established rights and duties. But as proposed, it will not be the basis for the choice and conduct of an independent body, but rather be one bad political law and obedient weapon of the ruling structure, which will elect judges of the Constitutional Court as obedient party personnel. In such a situation, the question arises how will such a Constitutional Court be independent in the exercise of the Constitution of established rights and duties, how will it decide on the constitutionality and legality of regulations and other general acts and how will it decide on other issues raised by the Constitution and by law in its jurisdiction? First of all, I mean the constitutional appeal and how it will decide by constitutional appeal. I think there's a possibility of large flat-rate and numerous abuses. A legitimate question arises, how the party court will decide independently and act independently in electoral disputes, which are very important, how it will act in the proceedings of the banning political party and in the conflict of jurisdiction. Instead of the basic objective of promoting the rights of citizens, I have followed you well, Mr. Minister, the Constitutional Court that is established by party personnel can be the source of many abuses and manipulations and will become a powerful and flat-rate tool of the ruling structure, which of course should not be. I'll try to point out the individual members of the Constitutional Court law and make certain objections. I will begin from the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 175(2), explicitly stipulates that the decision to initiate an independent procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality is made by the Constitutional Court by a two-thirds majority. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges the Constitutional Court to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, while the bill, Article 50(2), leaves the initiation of the constitutionality and legality procedure only as a possibility, and this differs in quality. Since Serbia's judicial system is not working, there is no Supreme Court of Cassation, which is in accordance with Article 172. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been authorized to elect five judges of the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court will be incomplete for a long time. If Article 175 is taken into account. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 50 The bill, to decide on its own to initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, the Constitutional Court makes two-thirds of all its members, so all these 10 judges, which you will choose today or tomorrow. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, assess how much evil an irresponsible judge or one judge who does not appear unjustly at the Constitutional Court session. So, that skinny, incomplete court probably won't work. The Constitutional Court would have to monitor the phenomena of interest in achieving constitutionality and legality, as well as to give interpretations in accordance with the tradition of our constitutional judiciary, which you mentioned, but instead almost shyly, in Article 105, you prescribe that the Constitutional Court is giving opinions on amending the law, and this does not say that these opinions are binding. That's how it works. The basic characteristic of this bill is the ambiguity, certain uncertainty and complete inaccuracy of individual members. The language of certain members is inadequate in the matter being processed, often, this is an ugly word, a jargon, which should be specified by legal and correct terms, which are the cases of Articles 46, 54, 17, 63, 37, 46 and 55. Some members, for example, of Article 16 of paragraphs 3 and 5, are in direct contrast with the Constitution, i.e. Article 173, which explicitly predicts that the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public professional function, except for a professorship at the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Serbia. It is incomprehensible, in my opinion, and legally impossible to formulate Article 36, which determines when the Constitutional Court will reject the proposal and initiative, constitutional appeal, request and other act to initiate the procedure, so as to list in point 3 ''when, within the time limit left, the applicant did not remove the shortcomings which make it impossible to act''. Of course, as soon as the court enters the scale, there is no rejection of the proposal, Mr. Minister, but the same proposal can only be rejected, and that is probably the alphabet of procedural decision-making and procedure. Article 84, the 30-day deadline for appeal and is not adequate, given the importance of the violated right and the freedoms that are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The time limit referred to in Article 99(2) shall also be inadequate, which shall specify that the decision-making body of the judge and the prosecutor shall have the right to respond within 15 days of the date of delivery of the appeal. What's gonna happen in practice? We are lawyers, you and I, of course, before you became a minister, in practice that authority can never accept a complaint and that the procedure under the constitutional appeal is never resolved, that is, by appeal for the protection of the rights of prosecutors and judges. Article 15. The bill of law of the grounds for dispensing the judges of the Constitutional Court is unclear, because I do not understand what a criminal act means. In fact, it's clear to me as a culprit, it can be a crime, a crime and a violation, but because of this inaccurate formulation, there is a real possibility of a flat-rate assessment related to the resolution of judges of the Constitutional Court, which can, of course, lead to many abuses. Also, there are no clear criteria for selecting the judges of the Constitutional Court, which I think is inadmissible and inadmissible, given that it is the highest state body in the country, which is mildly inappropriate and inconclusive. From Article 14. The proposal is not clear whether the Constitutional Court judges will be subject to the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act, as several speakers from this pay phone pointed out, especially the pension law, whether these people will be retired under the law. The honourable MPs, instead of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court and constitutional right occupying the fundamental place in the system of rights and serving as the basis for the development of the other branches of law, are unfortunately severely injured by this government and the ruling majority, and today is in the last place and the last hole on the play, which Kostunica would say, rather than having the Constitutional Court and constitutional right as in any normal country have primate and the greatest possible importance. That is why the ruling majority in the city of Belgrade seduces the unprecedented terror, where it unjustly defeats the right, and what, you will all agree with me, inevitably leads to dictatorship and violence of the worst possible species. If there were an independent and independent Constitutional Court, there would be no terror in Romania and throughout Serbia, which applies the majority, and there would be no beatings in the uniforms of the police of the Republic of Serbia. I think because of the lack of the Constitutional Court, this authority has approached open terror and self-government of the worst kind, which, be assured, the people of Serbia and the Serb people will punish in the elections, and this DOS regime and its policy will once and for all throw them into the waste of history.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10275	The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a long time ago when we should have both this law and the Constitutional Court judges, that we are a state that we are not, because for a year this state has no Constitutional Court, a year Serbian citizens have no one to complain about violating their constitutional rights. If we had a Constitutional Court and we had this law, it couldn't happen, let's just say, from one segment of public life, from the field of local self-government, that in 11 local self-government, in some over a year, there were no elections, that temporary measures were put in place, and, behold, the authorities of temporary measures were the ones why temporary measures were imposed, because they were in power before the temporary measures were imposed. It is a typical example of Smedereva, Smederjevska Palanka, an example of many other municipalities, and we have municipalities, such as Cicevic, where the deadline of four years has expired. So it doesn't fit when local elections are in all municipalities to be local elections these days. It is precisely because of the disturbances and the imposition of provisional measures that the deadline has been moved, so in Cicevic, for example, the mandates of those elected have expired for four months and the elections are not being debated. If we were a state which we are not, if we had a Constitutional Court as we do not have, it could not have been possible for many laws, which are in direct collegiate with the Constitution, to continue to live in the legal traffic of this state, because if the Constitutional Court were not a party Constitutional Court, if it were not for the Constitutional Court of the ruling party or coalition, would have acted in accordance with its powers and, protecting constitutional principles, many of these laws would have been returned to justice or declared unconstitutional. However, the specificity of this law is that it is one of the few laws that are not prescribed. I remind you, Mr. Minister, that we had laws absolutely nebulous in the previous term, when they boasted that 260 and some law parliament had passed. Let me remind you that we have then passed a seal protection law, and Vuk Bojovic has two seals in the Zoo, that we have passed a law banning piracy on the open sea, and neither has the Adriatic, which we have, so now we do not have, nor the Mediterranean, are the open seas, only the Atlantic Ocean is open sea, and such nebuloses and laws that were laws for the policy and laws for the minister, when it says - I am two laws when I was at ministerial office. That's why perhaps not prescribed, some things are, at the very least, problematic. Because I have no objection to smart and beautiful laws being applied and copied from other legislation, but above all they must be applicable to our country, to our citizens, to our economy, to the state of Serbia. Before I start talking about the law, I'll just point out, say, Article 45, point 8 - prohibits the work of a political party, union organisations, citizens' associations or religious community. If you had copied from the law in the environment, for example from Republika Srpska, Slovenia, Croatia, you could see that the Constitutional Court cannot ban a political party. It may discuss the constitutionality and legality of its programme, its statute, that it underlines this as a question and that it is discussed, and that the political party, whose programme and statutes are not in accordance with the Constitution, will emulate the programme, the statute and other acts it has in accordance with the Constitution. And not to be banned, especially not by a party, or coalition which, at least three-quarters of the parties, bears the term "democratic" in its prefix. If it's democracy, to ban a political party and other social organisations, but above all, I mean political parties, then there's no "d" from democracy. Democracy is allowing citizens to gather, ban the programme, ban the statutes, order the programme and the statutes to change, perhaps discuss the functioning of political parties that are not in line with the constitution. But banning a political party; as much as I disagree with the functioning of some parties, I could never raise my hand to ban some political party. So I suggest you consider redefining this point 8 and I think that the amendments are covered by this point 8). If we had previously had the law and the Constitutional Court, it could not have happened in the new Bill on Military Insurance, as it is already called, that individual officers are recognised as an internship in an increased duration, a retirement internship, and others are not recognised. I think when that law comes on the agenda here in the Assembly, it's going to cause a lot of controversy. If there was a Constitutional Court, things couldn't have happened. However, we do not have it and it is high time for the state of Serbia to get the Constitutional Court. Before I go to law school, a little bit about suggestions. In the proposal, the President of the Republic of each proposed candidate has a particular biography that MPs could read. We can agree or disagree, we can vote or we can not vote, we can criticise, but there's something to read. In this proposal we received from the Assembly there is nothing but names, last name and profession. I see among these ten, and I have seen among those ten, some people with honorable names and biographies, for some people of honor, reputation, expertise, the dignity of the SRS will vote, but I see some who do not belong in the municipal court either, and here they have come to the highest office a lawyer can desire, at the office of the Serbian Constitutional Court. When these lists of candidates come to debate, a lot of things will be said on this matter. To do that, you had to at least, not you, Minister, but whoever suggested the Assembly, at least have some more elemental information with a name, name and interest. We know that their profession is a lawyer, because if they weren't lawyers, they couldn't be proposed here. It cannot happen that the former President of the Constitutional Court is now still signing -- the Constitutional Court Judge, or -- the former Constitutional Court judge, and giving constitutional interpretations. If we had a Constitutional Court, no one would ask him, but he would ask the current president and the current Constitutional Court. A few things, for a short period of time, I will need a lot of things to cut short, say, we have a Article 11 - The Constitutional Court makes 15 judges who are elected and named in the manner prescribed by the Constitution. The constitution stipulates that the President of the Republic propose 10, that the Assembly choose five, that the Assembly propose 10, that the president choose five and five, give the cassation court. We don't have that proposal. What happens if, God forbid, and I see some here, and at a certain age, people are alive, people are mortal, what happens if one gets sick, if one dies, anything happens to him, out of these ten chosen ones. Again, we don't have a Constitutional Court and we're still putting the state in a position so it can't be debated. I remind you that over a thousand, or nearly a thousand constitutional appeals, are already waiting for these judges, as soon as they begin to debate. The Constitutional Court judge is resolved when he becomes a member of the political party. How will you determine, except to enter the political party's documentation, that anyone on this list is not a member of some political party. And how did you propose them, knowing that he wasn't a member of a political party, and how do you know he might not be a member of another political party? How will you determine his membership in the political party by being a member of the political party to stop his mandate? What if he's hiding? Besides, what's wrong with that, Mr. Minister, which might be a member of the political party? We're all members of the political party. He must not make his political views known through the Constitutional Court's action. After all, to remind you, Mr Vučetic was a member of the political party, as I recall, so almost all judges of the then constitutional court were members of political parties. Find someone... I think you're wrong now that you've pressed. (President: I didn't. ) Find a judge of name and expertise who has not already been involved in Serbia's political life, because we are a country on thorny soil, where you can only act by political engagement. The Constitutional Court judge cannot perform any other public or professional function, nor a job, except for a professorship at law school. I think this part, no matter what was prescribed from the Constitution, had to be a little bit different in the bill here. As you know, we have other colleges, in my university, which I once studied, in political science, there are exceptional, top-notch lawyers who teach legal classes at that university. On the other hand, in law school, you have people who teach economics and other subjects. This can't be a brake, it can't be the best-quality people, because I think it's me who should choose the best-quality people in these places, just because they teach in political sciences, at FON, and not at law school, it's a brake.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10277	Comrade Markovic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10278	Here, I'm bringing the end, another 15 minutes and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10279	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10280	There's one more thing that causes little and no doubt, the territorial determination of judges. I know this is also prescribed from the Constitution, and I don't think it's the best solution, because if someone who is the judge of the Constitutional Court stops the mandate, and he's from the territory of the province, then he has to choose exactly from the territory of the province. I think the Constitutional Court judge of the Constitutional Court for the entire territory of the Serbian state. So this limits us to have to go by that principle and pick someone who might be less quality, not to say another word than someone who's in another place. And if they should, and if they are the highest quality from the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, why would there be one, why wouldn't there be two, say, or if there were no three, but one, why would these other two have to be from there, if they weren't quality, why couldn't they be from Serbia's territory, etc. You don't have to choose a territorial judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10281	Comrade Markovic, you speak three minutes more than you own. There'll be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10282	Okay, well, when there's an amendment debate, then we'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10283	Thank you very much. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the opening of the principled search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93 want to do so. No, I don't. I thank you. I give my word to Minister Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10284	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, how important this point we debated yesterday and today is, and it's quite obvious to anyone who followed this debate, how much effort you've made to prepare for the debate and to have this debate conducted. I think that the tone, which is really appropriate to one of these issues that we are talking about, and today we are bringing to an end a principle debate, and we are going to talk about it in a few days, hopefully when we talk about amendments, so in the debate in particular, it says that we are approaching decision-making, law-making and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, and that, now we are not going to engage in these geometric forms, whether rounding is certainly a very important moment that will improve the situation of things in our legal system. Now I'm not going to talk about what we're all going to talk about together, of course, and I'm going to talk about when there's a debate in particular. A good part of this principle debate looked back and made remarks, suggestions or consent with different members. I won't even talk about motions for the Constitutional Court judges, it's probably waiting for us by Monday, when we're having a debate about all this. It's very short on a few things that I think are important from this principle debate. Mrs Vesna Pesic has shown her concern, and many other MPs, whether the Constitutional Court will be able in an up-to-date manner to conduct the proceedings that will be brought to him, if the law is passed, in jurisdiction, above all on the constitutional appeal, I think she thought several other MPs. There are indeed a large number of other cases that are currently in the Constitutional Court and this law provides that all these cases will, of course, pass to the jurisdiction of the new Constitutional Court, have about a thousand. It's a matter that will be settled by the Constitutional Court's rules of procedure. Of course, it is very important that only the formation of the court by this special general act, which the independent court adopts, will be arranged. This is, of course, the question and the number of advisors in the Constitutional Court, and the number of judicial assistants, or we will see what they will already call professional associates who will deal with these cases. I also expect a large number of constitutional complaints, which is one remedy, the citizens will certainly use it. When there are this large number of complaints and initial acts referred to the European Court, we can only expect that these initial acts will be sent more to our Constitutional Court, there will certainly be no less. So, the great task awaits the Constitutional Court when it is formed, the great tasks will be opened, and I expect, above all, that the future President of the Constitutional Court and Judges of the Constitutional Court will find an adequate solution. What is the job of the Ministry – I will do this and will propose to the Government, the Government of Parliament, and the Assembly is making a final decision – is to secure the budget and that all that is necessary as the cost of the Constitutional Court will be paid, because it is a public interest. I think we'll find it very easy to find an agreement on the solution to this issue. This debate in parliament and what it will come about when we open the debate in particular is, in fact, the essential conclusion of a process. Now I'm gonna use a few words to say what it all looked like. Immediately after the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I made a decision on the formation of a working group that began to deal with this text, there was no more important issue than this issue. As early as June, we were able to complete a work version. The important thing is that this text has passed various instances, and it was very important for me as Minister of Justice to have an open public debate on this issue. The text, which received very good estimates from the European Organisation for Security and Co-operation, has already been published on 8 August, so from the OSCE on one hand. And also the Council of Europe -- and I think it is indisputable for all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the Council of Europe, as the oldest international organisation in which all the countries that, as Terry Davis said yesterday, are loyal to democracy and the rule of law, and we are -- therefore, the Commission of the Council of Europe, which is called the Commission for Democracy through Law, so the Venice Commission, gave a positive assessment of this legal text. A major public debate has been opened since 8 August. The public debate was attended by professors of law schools in Serbia, judges, current judges of the Constitutional Court, judges of regular courts, both the Supreme and other, prosecutors, lawyers, the professional public, and I think that this law has been searched in the professional public with a very serious attention, with the attention that such text deserves. The big round table we had on September 12th. The round table was attended by prominent representatives of our professional public. The government of the Republic of Serbia has established a proposal for this law on 4 October. It's quite right here that this is a law for which, from the government's point of view, an emergency procedure is required. De facto it's an emergency procedure, but actually as a regular procedure. I think it's even good that we formally had an emergency procedure, because it was possible for MPs to put amendments until the very beginning of the debate, which is one more possibility for everyone to express their views on the individual members of this law and I think we'll have a good debate in particular. So more than a month has passed since the government established the bill and how the proposal arrived here in the Assembly. And when all this is seen, I think we have had a very broad debate and that Parliament, or MPs, has had enough time to deal with this text, and that has just resulted in a large number of amendments, and that, as I said, we have talked about it all, and we will only talk about it when the debate is in particular. Now I'm going to say that some of the amendments will be adopted after the first reading we had at the Justice Department. We have a few days left until the debate begins in particular. We will deal with these amendments all this time. We're really going to prepare an answer to every amendment that's been put here. We'll have, I'm sure, one more time to say, a very, very important and serious debate in particular. I expect we'll pass the law that's the best possible at the moment. It's a dazzling thing to say, some of the remarks I heard yesterday come from the text of the constitution itself. The constitutional law, however much it regulates all issues it deals with, is bound by the Constitution, as all other laws are bound by the Constitution. On the other hand, there is a number of legal dilemmas. There are some dilemmas that are more legal-political than they are legal. We'll talk about it all. We're going to have a serious search, and I'm sure we'll be able to make good decisions. Anyway, this debate is in principle over. I think we have had the opportunity to listen and hear all the views, legally above all, the political and legal-political same, and I am convinced that after this debate we have another argument that will bring us closer to opportunities and lead us to bring the law after all this, to elect judges and to make Serbia a great one, which I am fully convinced, a big and significant step towards an even greater and more significant foundation of the rule of law in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-09-0.u10285	I thank the minister. I hereby conclude the principled search of the Constitutional Court bill. I'm schedulering a session for Monday at 10.00 hours.
