ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes from previous sessions and setting up the agenda, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84, paragraph 12. The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with records of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 24, 26, 28, 29, 30 November and 3 December 2007, and the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11 December 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes. I would like to inform you that, by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Committee, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has been sent to that committee in writing an objection to the minutes of this session. We move to a decision on the records I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 24, 26, 28, 29 and 30 November and 3 December 2007. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, there were no against and abstentions, there was no vote of 15, of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held 24, 26, 28, 29 and 30 November and 3 December 2007. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11 December 2007. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, there were no against and abstentions, there were no 16 votes, of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11 December 2007. The sitting session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure and for bringing the debate together. 1. The government proposed that the draft law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2007, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – one, the abstentions were not, there was no 13 vote, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 2. The government proposed that the draft law on local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2007, be put on the agenda, which was proposed as the second item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – one, there were no abstentions, there were no 12 votes, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 3. The government proposed putting the draft law on local elections on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2007, which was proposed as the third item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – one, there was no abstention, there was no vote 11 out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 4. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the main city law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2007, which was proposed as the fourth item of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 versus – one, the abstention was not, did not vote 10, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. 5. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – 124, there were no abstentions, there were no 13 votes, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Six. A total of 35,870 voters proposed to put on the agenda an amending and supplementing law on free access to information of public importance, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – 115, abstention – one, did not vote 24, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Seven. Also, 35,870 voters proposed to put the draft information classification law on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – 123, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 15, of a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 8. A total of 32,142 voters proposed that the draft decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda for determining the facts of the abuses of Delta from Belgrade, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 12 December 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – 123, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 14, of a total of 144 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. On the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 140(2), the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: - Proposal for a Law on Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia - Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government - Proposal for a Law on Local Elections - Proposal for a Law on the Capital (points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed agenda). Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – five, the abstentions were not, did not vote 10, of a total of 144 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and for bringing the debate together, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am putting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to vote on the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, there were no votes against and abstentions, there were no votes of 15, of a total of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, 3. Proposal for a law on local elections, 4. Proposal for a law on the capital. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda, points 1, 2, 3 and 4, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate in principle, for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that representatives of parliamentary groups on these agenda points are the following MPs: in front of the Vojvodjanski MEPs, Aleksandra Jerkov, in front of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, the authorised representative is Vjerica Radeta, in front of the Democratic Party of Serbia - Novi Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, that is Branislav Nedimovic and in front of the Liberal-Democratic Party Parliament Club – Nebojsa Rangelovic. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move on to a joint principle search on 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for Law on Local Self-Government, Proposal for Law on Local Elections and Proposal for Law on the Capital of Serbia before I give the word to Minister Marković, according to the Rules of Procedure, the National MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. So as not to interpret this date in any way but as a wish to distract you, no matter what some laugh, not to say how they laugh, but I have no flour in my hands, therefore, make sure that you don't qualify in the way our people qualify. In the Municipality of Grock, who knows which way, in a rough way is abuse of power. Obviously, there are some problems. If these problems exist, solve them in a legal way. If some things are not by law, please, those who have broken the law bring justice and punish in an appropriate manner. If you had done so when the Bodrum affair, Thessalonica, we would have solved these problems once and for all, and when it comes to Parliament, and when it comes to the municipalities. You can't legally handle it, but that's why you're using the police. At this moment, police came to the Municipality of Grocka, with someone from the Belgrade City Assembly, with some papers to determine whether the seal is correct, it is not correct, etc. And that the police decide who has the right to act as government in the Municipality of Grock. We're not going to go out on a business basis right now, it's not our wish, we want these laws to be adopted, but we're giving you an appropriate time to let us know that you've put forth an effort and called upon, or called upon the reason of those who can decide, to withdraw the police, and in the normal process to solve this problem. Don't expect us to agree to solve these problems with violence. Try, do your best to work it out. If you fail to do so, we will, of course, have to work through the congregation pay phone to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15177	I assume you referred this as a parliamentary question to Minister Markovic. General. So, since it's not the first time we've had such problems, it's good to discuss these laws today, to bring legal grounds that will no longer allow such problems to arise in local self-governments. The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15178	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry to begin the debate on these very important laws by advertising the Rules of Procedure, or by asking Mr Todorovic to answer certain questions. I sincerely hope that in the Municipality of Grock, the police, if they are really inside, will come out and that this dispute will be settled in another way. I think it is indeed high time that we changed our laws on local self-government, and that the city of Belgrade no longer creates situations that will reflect on the work of the National Assembly. In the hope that this will be resolved in the way Mr. Todorovic said and in the hope that, after the adoption of this set of laws, never again will the National Assembly have to deal with issues of local self-government in the way that it has dealt with itself, I would present to you the basic elements of these four laws and, of course, invite you to end these laws and adopt them. So, before we approached the draft laws, we ran a state of affairs analysis in local self-government. I don't think there's any need to talk too much to you, MPs, about the state of the local self-government units in Serbia, but the fact that we have 11 disbanded local self-government units, that we have what we have tonight in Grocko, that in many local self-government units we have various forms of "an emergency", that we have situations where, despite the fact that everything is fine, in essence, nothing is right, it says that with our local self-government system, or with the existing law on local self-government, there's something wrong, that we need to change something. What was our primary goal when we did these bill proposals, what were the tasks we wanted to accomplish through the new legal texts? First, to ensure stability to local self-government. I sincerely hope that, if the National Assembly accepts these bill proposals, no more units of local self-government will be disbanded, or at least not for the reasons for which it has been disbanded so far. If these laws were in force, I'd like to tell you right now, none of the existing disbanded units of local self-government would be disbanded. So the first and basic task of this set of laws is stability in the units of local self-government in Serbia. Secondly, it is the basis for further decentralisation, to the extent that it is possible and necessary for our society, and we have, above all, done so by separating, conditionally speaking, the municipalities, that is, forming a number of units of local self-government and giving them the property of the city. Thirdly, equally important, it is that we have introduced instruments that will increase the responsibility of local authorities, but we have introduced instruments that should mean depolitisation and professionalisation of the authorities in local self-government units. I think it's very important to say that there is a huge error that a system law such as the Law on Local Self-Government should extend the jurisdiction of local self-government units. That's just not true. The system law sets up a system and in some ways opens the door to extend the competences of local self-government units by sectoral laws. An example is the 2002 Law, which provided for certain units of local self-government in the field of health and education, but it was a 'dead letter on paper'. Certain rights, i.e. competences in the field of health and education of local self-government units, were not granted until 2003 and 2005, by adopting appropriate laws in the field of education and health care. Therefore, only sectoral laws add new powers to local self-government units, and it is the law on local self-government that should leave that space for adding new competences, one year – one year, the second year – the third year – the third year. Imagine if we changed the system law every year! I hope that no one here has this delusion and that this is how it has been removed and among those who have been bringing it up in public lately. As for the first law, the law on territorial organisation, what is most important, instead of the five cities so far, we will now have 24 cities, including Belgrade, more specifically, 19 municipalities, if this is voted, the status of the city. What are these so far municipalities? Zrenjanin, Kraljevo, Kruševac, Leskovac, Pančevo, Smederevo, Subotica, Čačak, Šabac, Valjevo, Vranje, Zaječar, Jagodina, Loznica, Novi Pazar, Požarec, Sombor, Sremska Mitrovica and Užice. What's the reason for this? The reason is that the large municipalities, the municipalities that have the capacity, which have the ability to deal with many jobs, in a way, have become a hostage of small municipalities, so when it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction, you can't observe whether that jurisdiction will be able to accept a large municipality and carry it out, but you always have to look at the weakest one, can it. It's like that principle with the chain – the chain is as strong as its weakest link. We already have municipalities today that are still unable to cope with the jurisdiction of the Health Protection Act, the Law of the Fundamentals of Education. So, the goal is for the future National Assembly, the Republic of Serbia, to be able to pass on to local self-government units so far, because they couldn't bring it out, those of 15 thousand, 20, 25 thousand, can now pass on to those who, realistically, have the capacity and cry for new powers. In this way, we have broken and created, in some ways, three types of local self-government, which are now municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. Another important issue addressed by the Law on Territorial Organisation is the issue of changing the borders of local self-government units. In fact, the current law on local self-government has predicted that a possible change in the borders of local self-government units is possible, but it envisioned citizens' opinion. Unfortunately, the process itself, which is indisputable in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, has not been processed in detail and we, in practice, have never, in this period, been able to change the borders of local self-government units. In objectively, in Serbia, there are a number of municipalities that really need to change their borders, i.e. there are municipalities that at this point, in this geographical sense, have serious problems in their functioning and it would be important to change their borders. Now the Law on Territorial Organization has laid down a very clear procedure, in accordance with Article 188. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the procedure implies that the National Assembly, for all units of local self-government for which there is a legitimate interest and an appropriate proposing, will call local referendums. These referenda are an advisory character, and based on the opinion expressed by citizens in the referendum and on other indicators and justifications, we will approach, in September, or in the autumn.... (Attack from the scene, Dragan Todorovic: Police attack on the Municipality of Grock is under way.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15179	Mr. Todorovic, I'd like to hear from the minister until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15180	Best to chair that break, so after that we try...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15181	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm setting a 15-minute break, so we'll continue our work. [[After break, 17.10]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. I'm sorry, the minister's been interrupted, just to finish his exposure. The word has the government's state minister and local self-government Mr. Milan Markovic, to complete his presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15183	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that we can continue this session, which I am experiencing as very important, given the effort we have made, in collaboration with most of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, to reach a set of laws that will have very broad support in the National Assembly, in order for these laws to last. I am very sorry that there are topics that threaten the regular congregation work and I hope that there will be no such thing in the future. I think I said what are the main features of the territorial organization law. Of course, in the debate in particular, I am willing to talk more about other topics concerning the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, but, if you allow, in the end, however, some résumé regarding the law on territorial organisation. First, we did not want the Republic of Serbia to take the right to change the existing borders of local self-government units without a referendum, i.e. citizens' statements. We are prepared, as Ministry, together with local self-government units' congregations, to launch procedures for changing borders in the course of 2008. I think the list of cities I've read before this break is the one that will give a chance for Serbia's faster and better decentralisation, and that, at the same time, these cities will really take advantage of certain opportunities that they will now get as units of local self-government that are contentious and in their potential stand far better than they stood as municipalities. In the end, I think it was a task of the Law on Territorial Organization and I suppose no one thinks it could and should have done more and different in that law. Local elections. The topic of local elections, first of all, the system of local elections, has been quite present in our public for the past few months, with full right, because the electoral system is a political issue of a couple of excellencies. I have repeatedly voiced my view about the need for a change in the electoral system, in order for people who are running and who have ambition to do some local jobs, however, to have a direct check among their neighbours, whether they are the ones who should do it. On the other hand, the fact is that there are certain problems in our local self-government system, which, among other things, are the result of the vaguely defined and the incentive of a vague political intensification that we want the mandate of the committee, what is the legal nature of that mandate and the decisions of the assembly regarding the fate of those mandates. In a conversation with the presidents of political parties, I realized that the position of the elections is prevailing, however, to remain proportionate, to stick to the current system, but we agreed that it would be a well-established censorship to 5%, in order to make this and some other measures in the proposed law on local self-government and local elections, in a way, serious to the local political scene. Speaking of the need to seriousise the local political scene, I'll say, in my opinion, a few important papers in the laws. So the list must have at least one third of the candidates. I know that there are those who will say: Why can't an individual, or two? Because this alone has significantly complicated the electoral process and because, ultimately, it has led to significant complications of our local self-government in the post-election system. It is not necessary to run away from the fact that the parties are the bearers of political life in Serbia, with all those remarks that I must say, I fully support, and that is that being the bearers of political life does not mean that they should be the bearers of the common state government. Anyway, the list must have one-third of the candidates. I think that this is an optimal solution and that it will lead to those who have a serious ambition to deal with it, not because the three friends were in the pub and decided – let's be politicians from tomorrow, so that they move from party to party and that we have situations like we have in various municipalities throughout Serbia, including tonight in Grocko. What's the paper? The conditions for running have been tightened. Each candidate must be supported by at least 30 citizens with voting rights and that support must be certified according to the general rules on certification of signatures and prescriptions, which means that it can be verified, which is very important, to be absolutely clear, whether in the municipality, whether in court, or in court, is a matter of choice, is a matter of need, although I think it is easier in the municipality than in court, but it has to be certified. Let us not repeat the situation so that, for example, the leader of a political party suddenly finds himself on the list of candidates from another political party, as was the case in the recent elections in Belgrade, if I am not mistaken; it just happened with one MP here. That won't happen anymore. The electoral municipal commission has often been the subject of conflict in local self-government units. Namely, what was going on? One election commission was dominated by members of a political party. It also happened that the electoral commission, although it was an appropriate application of the Law on Electoral MPs, was drawn up in such a way that it did not meet the rules, and then asked the question of the legal nature of the congregation's decision and whether there was any protection from such a congregation decision. We've laid down in the local election law next. No political party or party coalition can have more than half of its members in the permanent composition of the electoral bodies. We now foresee this in the law on local elections, so far there has been a similar application of the Law on the selection of MPs. In Article 14, we have done something else, political parties, coalitions of the political parties of national minorities who propose at least one third, have the right to represent their representatives, and then, to make up the election commission in permanent composition the president and at least six members appointed by the local self-government unit assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary groups in the local self-government units assembly. The composition of local self-government units must be respected when electing a new municipal electoral commission. We also felt that, and this is the decision of the Constitutional Court, that the decision of the Assembly on the selection of the municipal electoral commission is part of the electoral process in a broader sense, and therefore we have provided that such a decision can be brought against the court, and such a procedure is within the jurisdiction of the district court. So, unlike the previous period, this SO decision can be attacked and procedured before the district court, unless it complies with the Article. The 13th and 14th laws on local self-government. The big problem was the matter of mandate. All problems related to local self-government units have stemmed from the poorly defined issue of mandates. You know that so far, in some ways, the Ministry of State Administration, in some ways, is in line with Article 90. The law on state administration was supposed to solve these problems, but that opinion, according to the same law, is not binding. We have predicted that it is the court's jurisdiction to resolve post-election dispute when it comes to mandates and that is in line with the highest standards known to the countries of the Council of Europe, whose member we are. One of the big problems was the issue of establishing the mandate, and it was happening that the president of the assembly came, sat down as chairman, the council members gathered, did not realize there was a quorum, and said he was continuing the end of someone's term; even one, at the same time, left the hall. We have now predicted that there is no establishment of the mandate, but that of the end of the term of office. Let the congregation decide that the term of office has ceased. Therefore, establishing the termination of the term of office implies quorum, the start of the session, and it is determined that, on the basis of resignation, or in other cases, the term of office has ceased. No more finding by the president, because it was one of the biggest problems we had in local self-government units, the abuse of the president to say, well, the mandate has been established. I say again, behind all this, there's always a chance that someone can turn to the court. I really hope that it will no longer be, but in the end, let the court, it is fair and fair, should not be resolved by the executive authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The big problem was the appointment of sessions, you all know, so the president of the assembly won't schedule a session, and then when a number of committee members asks him to schedule a session, he schedules it, so delay it. It was, uh, simple, amazing, but you have it in practice all you want. It's impossible now. When a number of committee members request a session, we have set the time limit within which the session has to be scheduled and we have prescribed that this session cannot be postponed by the decision of the President of the Assembly, but only by the assembly of the municipality, it is possible not to be held only if there is no quorum. So it's impossible to block the work of the municipality. I think these are institutions that are very important to the stability and unity of local self-government, which we need so much. To whom the mandates belong, that is a question we have repeatedly repeated. The councilman is completely free to decide his term of office. So, in order to avoid any complaints, it is important to know that the board is completely free, but the committee has the right to, in accordance with Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, concluded an agreement with its proponent and, irrevocably, made available to its proposer its mandate. I think it's fair and that at this point, at the moment that we are now, it's necessary, because we can no longer allow it to come to what is now coming, that we don't know who is trading and how it trades with mandates. Minorities continue to enjoy all protection regarding the natural threshold. So there are no changes, which is perfectly normal, and the first elections will be held at the earliest 120 days of the election day. This is also true of territorial autonomy, i.e. AP Vojvodina at this time, and unfortunately, this will not apply to the AP Kosovo, but also to Vojvodina and all units of local self-government. Local self-government. The organisation of authorities in local self-government and the selection of executive bodies are, in my deep confidence, resolved by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has made it clear that local municipalities are electing executive bodies in municipalities, but the Constitution also said in Article 180 that the highest body in the units of local self-government is the assembly of local self-government units, and in the autonomous province, the assembly of the autonomous province. We have therefore defined ourselves as the following – executive bodies in the municipality, the municipal council and the president of the municipality, are elected by the assembly, and so far we have done so for the municipalities, and for the cities, and for the city of Belgrade. I think it's important that in our system of local self-government we take all the solutions consistently, from municipality to city. There is no excuse to change that way by just one step, only one kind of unit of local self-government, especially given, I repeat, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the local self-government unit assembly is the highest authority. In public, this was attacked, even heard that this was a step backwards, so someone said it was not in agreement with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I would therefore like to say that the European Charter of Local Self-Government, in its 3rd Article, of Article 2, explicitly foresees that the congregations are elected by the executive bodies and that, even in the framework of the Council of Europe, there is a discussion on whether the direct choice of mayors is in line with the European Charter. Then a solution has been found and it is said that it is not contrary to the European Charter, but no one can say, or as a colleague says, this is much more consistent, so it is not right for our public to be presented to do something which is a step backwards. That's not true, and I'm going to set a second example right now. Most of the members of the Council of Europe in 2004, when the last analysis was carried out, had exactly the kind of executive body we are now planning to be in the Republic of Serbia. So the direct choice of mayors is not the majority way of electing the executive authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, there is a recommendation from the 2004 Congress of Local Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, Recommendation No. 151, which cites the advantages and disadvantages of the direct election of mayors, and, among other things, says that there are states and that there is a possibility that there may happen somewhere: political blockades, excessive concentration of power in the hands of one man and the risk of pulsism. I don't know, but by some chance, all of these flaws hit the Republic of Serbia. So the direct election system of the municipality president in Serbia has produced poor results, which are currently being viewed in these elements listed through the Council of Europe. I especially want to say something about the future property of the local self-government unit. The Congress of Local and Regional Authorities explicitly calls on Member States to pay particular attention to issues related to municipal property management, which should be done under the supervision of the assembly. In this way, I want to respond to those who have told the public that Serbia is going backwards and that the constitutional solution is a step backwards. I would like to say that the constitutional solution is fully in line with what is happening in the Member States of the Council of Europe, in full compliance with the European Charter of European Self-Government, in full compliance with the recommendations of the Congress of the Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe and fully with the needs that we have as a society at this point. As for the number of council members and council members, we haven't changed anything, not because we don't think it should change, but because it would assume a change in the statutes of units of local self-government. On the other hand, the Constitutional Law, for my extremely unknown reasons, predicted that the statutes would be harmonised 90 days after the elections, i.e. that it would be the newly elected assembly of units of local self-government, so that we would come here to a legal dilemma, but also to a practical open question – whether the units of local self-government would make these changes that should be carried out. What have we done with these? We've achieved stability. The executive body is a reflection of the congregation's majority. There are a number of mechanisms that you will see in the law, which predicts that the majority of the congregation exists or does not exist. But it's gone -- maybe it exists, maybe it doesn't exist, so let's guess. No guesses, we have most, or we don't have most, we have stability, or we don't have stability. It can't be. Few are most; few are not most. So we have stability. If we don't have it, it means the congregation doesn't meet and then it's disbanded, but it can't be to meet without having a majority. I said I thought it was a matter of responsibility. You see, being president of the municipality is a great honor and a great responsibility and it's not easy being president of the municipality. But when someone wants to be the president of the municipality, they also have to bear a certain responsibility under the law. It has often happened to us, especially in the previous system, that the executive board, then, and now municipally larger, says - behold, they have made a collective decision. Who's going to prosecute this bigger collectively now because the decision is illegal? Well, if someone wants to be the president of the municipality, they'll have to take some responsibility. We predicted that the municipal council's decisions were solely responsible for the legality of the municipal council's decisions, which is chaired by the municipal council. On the other hand, of course, it must have some instrument, the president of the municipal council can suspend decisions, or delay the execution of the municipal council's decision, and let the congregation of the municipality handle it. But it can't happen that the municipal council is making bigger arrangements and making an illegal decision, especially given that the municipal council decides in the second degree, that the municipal council is, however, made by politicians, and that no one is to blame for it, it's now the president of the municipality's fault. Therefore, future presidents of the municipalities, please choose this honor, but also take responsibility for the legality of the work of municipal councils before the law. We predicted something, and I am very glad that it was accepted by representatives of the parliamentary groups with whom I had the opportunity to speak. It's a solution for the mayors of the municipal administration to be elected in competitions. It's not a matter of municipal policy management. Let's pick them in the contests, make their mandate different from the mandate of political representatives. Come on, if the president of the municipality is a man whose right is not so close, let's say he can't order something against the head of the municipal administration. So the head of the municipal administration is elected in competition, and the whole system and ideas will be developed by law on employees in local self-government bodies, which I hope will be in front of the MPs in the first six months of 2008. This is a big newspaper in our system, and I sincerely hope that you will support it. As far as the cities are concerned, we think it's very important, the cities will have communal police. The municipal police law will be done in the first half of 2008. I think the only disadvantages of our local self-government system are if we exclude these instabilitys regarding jurisdiction, precisely, the lack of property, which will be resolved by the law that is being prepared, and the absence of a municipal police force that would help effectively enforce decisions by local authorities. In the end, the city of Belgrade. It was an obligation in 2002 to pass the law on the capital within six months, and now it is 2007, the law was not passed, but it is an opportunity for this assembly to pass the law on the capital. The organisation of the capital is, as I said, almost identical with the organisation of other units of local self-government. The selection of executives is in the Assembly, there's a council, there's a mayor. The mayor holds the chairmanship of the Council, the mayor has a deputy, and is elected from the council, therefore, absolutely the same as the local self-government units. Although, I say, the principle that the law itself does not determine jurisdiction, we have decided in the law on the capital, however, to establish some responsibilities, and these competences concern Belgrade managing its coasts. I think that Belgrade, with so many inhabitants and so much potential, already has some competences, but we sincerely hope and call for a more significant transfer of competence from the Republic to the city of Belgrade in the future, sectoral laws. In the end, I have to say, that's what all the parliamentary groups were interested in, on the issue of city halls. Unfortunately for me, the city's municipalities are not at all norms in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. City halls aren't defined as local self-government units, you all know that. On the other hand, we have the fact that Belgrade is a very centralized city. We have the truth that city municipalities, which have 150,000 inhabitants, can't decide where the shoe-cleaning box is going to be placed. I don't know if the honourable fellow MPs from the interior know this, but I was the president of the Belgrade City Municipality and my municipality couldn't even tell me where they were going to put the shoe-cleaning box, let's just say, on Rospy, where my colleague Migati was from, but it was from the city of Belgrade. Believe me, there's such an absurdity in the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade needs to be decentralised, and the ministry will provide all necessary assistance to create the statutes of the city of Belgrade that will carry out this decentralisation. The city of Belgrade needs certain issues – issues of urbanism, above all, maintenance of areas, certain elements of line transportation, etc., to be transferred to city municipalities and that is the only way to decentralise the city. It was not possible in the law on the capital to standardise its internal organisational units. It would simply be one kind of political violence over the right if we did. In any case, I believe Belgrade will exercise decentralisation, show little more interest in normative action. There was much to be done in this period, but there was no new constitution and it was a great obstacle. Now we have the Constitution, we have the law on local self-government, we have the law on the city of Belgrade, and I hope that the city of Belgrade will benefit greatly from the adoption of these laws, and in particular it will be able to, in its statute, properly value the existence of city municipalities, which have existed since 50 and some years, the truth, in another system, so on. The communal system, but it is realistic that there are and cannot be ignored the fact that, when we say, the Municipality of Palilula, Vračar, the Sava Venac, indeed, we think of the municipalities and that we can, there is Zemun, there are 17 of them, identifying them with some local communities or something like that. So he stays in Belgrade to solve the part. As far as the Republic is concerned, we are consistent, we did not want to take questions within Belgrade, because we respect people living in Belgrade, politicians working in Belgrade, and we expect them to solve it. We think they're capable of handling it themselves. We don't want to edit their internal relations, and I think it's consistent and correct. Anyway, thanks for your attention. I thank all those who participated, I don't want the Ministry to have the authority of this law, anyone who helped us get to this content of these laws, and I hope that through the amendments we can come up with some solutions that I don't think may be very specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15184	The word is Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating Article 104, and I'm calling, beyond that, to the article. 225 and 226. Mr. Minister, questions will be addressed to you as well. I think 20 minutes ago something happened in this room, which, at the very least, requires that the MPs be told what it is. This is humiliating what is happening to this congregation. Mr. Chairman, MPs, i.e. The National Assembly has already been humiliated enough for these seven months, by not being able to obtain these four laws, in accordance with the Constitutional Law, so that it can conduct the debate properly, they have already done so last night, again some night's, "vampire" sessions, to allow the implementation of the Constitutional Law. That's humiliating enough. This, at the very least, needs clarification. I waited for the minister to finish the speech and I expected him to say, people, it happened, I beg you for a little patience, etc. We're simply witnessing a session interruption, a police raid into one of the municipalities. People, who can approve a police raid anywhere, let alone a municipality? Now, all of a sudden, nothing, let's move on. What's this about? Will those who have fallen into the municipality be arrested, or will those who have withdrawn the police be arrested, be sent away, so that they may withdraw it? How long do you think you're playing with laws in Serbia, how long do you think you can interpret them in accordance with some agreements? What's this about, Mr. Minister? As far as we know, the president of the municipality has been removed, some say – legally and others say – illegally. The situation with Belgrade mayor was similar. We asked the competent ministry to respond, because it is bound by the Constitution and the law, to take a stand and to solve the problem. Did the Ministry do that when it comes to Grock? If so, then you should appeal to the law of the president of the municipality, formerly, or summon ministers, you, in an arrest, if you have given something illegal. What it looks like, here we are, playing, and now it's no longer valid. Never mind, come on, people, let's move on. I'll report back to the Rules of Procedure, until you come out to answer, clearly and precisely, what it looks like to send the police, and then pull it back. Either you should arrest those who went in there, or you who invited them out, otherwise, it's evil, upside down with this Serbia, even though it's used to the laws being implemented depending on who they're referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15186	The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15187	I'm sorry, really, I didn't know you weren't familiar with the situation. Here's what happened. First, the Department of State and Local Self-Government didn't send any police to Grock. You know that the responsibilities of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government extend to units of local self-government, and that we can give opinions on the system of local self-government when it comes to certain issues related to units, or entities that are not units of local self-government. In particular, in Grochny, what happened was that we were trying to apply the law, in a situation where one committeeman, who was on one side, moved to the other side. The Ministry's position, since this law was passed, in 2002, both this and that, is the same, which is that the mandate of the committee belongs to the council. So he can have his mandate. I agree that it's not the smartest solution, but it came from the law so far, so I'm asking you to keep that in mind. That's why we're changing it. On the other hand, the majority, who became a minority in this way, rightly says – wait, but the elections were different. So on one side we have legitimacy, and on the other we have legality. There's been a conflict, and it's not the first time it's happened. They asked for the board's opinion, I don't know who asked for everything, different people asked the Ministry for an opinion. In our opinion, we stated that, according to Article 90. The Law on State Administration, the term of office belongs to the council and, if it says it did not resign, it did not give it and therefore had the right to participate in the work of the assembly of the municipality, and the decisions made by the assembly of the municipality, with it, are important. That's our attitude. That's what we've notified the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has been running public administration tasks since 1992 when it comes to administrative inspection. So, since 1992, and I think you, too, colleague Žarko, know that. Then, unwarrantedly, the city of Belgrade asked the Ministry for us to interfere. We refused any interference, even wrote a memo, which was rather cold, explicit, that since 1992 they have been doing inspection work, and they have asked the question of the seal. I don't see what the seals have to do with this whole story right now. I still don't understand what the seal has to do with the question that the president of the municipality will be sitting in the rooms. But, my God, lawyers are different. We're not saying that we at the Ministry know, they know someone else, but it kind of happened. Anyway, as far as we've been informed, Mr. Todorovic and I have tried to get some information together, and the President of the Assembly, the city of Belgrade, or the newly elected president of the municipality, cannot exactly say, asked the police to assist him in space. It's come to what's happened. To tell you the truth, we've asked to clarify this situation. But again, as Ministry, we didn't send the police. I suppose the newly elected president, who from the point of view of the state is the legal president of the municipality, has asked for that assistance and now I don't know any more details. We may be able to find out the details during the evening or tomorrow, but I just asked Mr. Todorovic, who had a direct relationship with the people in Grocko, as I hear it, the thing calmed down, the police are gone. I don't think this legal president of the municipality has entered the municipality, and the one that's legitimate, probably, but not legal, is currently there. But it's a reality and it's a local self-government in Serbia. So I suggest that we pass these laws as soon as possible, because, believe me, in these six months, as long as I'm the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, I can't believe what's going on in Serbia in the units of local self-government. If it wasn't so sad, that would be funny, you could write a book about what kind of people sit around and what they do in local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15188	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Business, and then the MPs Željko Vasiljevic, Vesna Pesic, Vladan Batic and Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, I've come to you for a word. 225 and 226, and as a member of the initiative committee, which launched a national initiative to adopt a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the abuses of Delta. As you know, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party has already tried once, unsuccessfully, to initiate the formation of this polling committee before this parliament. At that time, we did not receive support from either ruling parties or opposition parties. Then we did what the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative enables us to do, which is to look for support among citizens, which we told you and then we'd do. Indeed, we have fully respected the procedure of the Law, and we have done so in a much shorter time than the time provided for by the Law, and the Law provides for a period of seven days for the collection of a minimum of 30,000 signatures, as long as it takes for such a proposal to be found in the Assembly. So we managed to collect these signatures and what has now happened, and what is devastating, is, firstly, that this initiative has not been re-enacted by either the ruling or the opposition parties. That's what we expected. And that 32,000 citizens supported this initiative is also something that was expected. A colleague's reaction was expected in Parliament. It just made sense that you wouldn't support that initiative now, like you didn't support it before. What is devastating is that this proposal came to the congregation in such an insidious way. We only found out this morning that today we're going to vote on this proposal. As the campaign for the presidential election is now, and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is the presidential candidate of the Liberal Democratic Party, he was unable to come and talk about this proposal. That's exactly why I'm putting on a big protest. I think there must have been more understanding for this initiative, not just because it is being followed by the MPs of a party, but, precisely, by the citizens behind it. What I have to ask as a question, which is somehow being imposed, and in the context of everything that happened yesterday in Parliament, though, at the House of the National Assembly, it is that yesterday, clearly and loudly, we are representatives of the government and representatives of the opposition, we have not told the European Union, not European integration. I'm kind of in the middle of something today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15190	Please, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15191	Have an understanding, I'm talking about something that's got 32,000 people behind it, a few more minutes. What I can see is that today our proposal is obstructing the same majority that said yesterday - not the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15192	I don't know if you understand me. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15193	Wait another minute. I think you have much more tolerance for the MPs of some other parliamentary groups, for example, towards the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15194	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15195	Mr Albianic, since you do not allow me to finish, I am interested in whose interests, as chairman at this time, are you protecting, and whose interests are MPs of this House, not supporting this initiative, protecting? When we suggested that a survey committee be formed, we just wanted to allow citizens to get answers to questions that are somehow being raised in public, and to which answers cannot be obtained in institutions. Because if this Miroslav Miskovic owes 400m euros to the state and citizens of Serbia on the basis of unpaid tax, if that tax is not charged, then it is logical that we have the right, that we have the possibility to at least launch this initiative in Parliament, when institutions are not already doing their job. Unfortunately, this initiative has been obstructed, or disabled by everyone in this House. That's what's devastating and what everyone should be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15196	Thank you. The word is not sufficient for the subject you spoke of in the People's Assembly. I protect the interests of all the MPs in the National Assembly, and that means the citizens of Serbia that these MPs represent. You have abused the Rules of Procedure by reporting to members 225 and 226, because by Article 103. You have to speak to the Rules of Procedure, and I'll quote, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." I don't think that's a good way to do it. We really need to get back to the agenda and get back to work. The word has a folk MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Vesna Pesic, Vladan Batic, Slobodan Maras, Milisav Petronijevic, and you, Mr Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite Mr Albianic's free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, I will report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 225 and Article 226. I have to ask this question, especially in light of yesterday's debate on the Kosovo and Metohija resolution. I am surprised by the fact that one, indeed, unusual event has gone quite undetected and without great pomp in the public of Serbia, especially in the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Today, on behalf of the SPS MPs and the Veterans' Movement of Serbia, I was informed that a major abuse of functions by US General Stephen Schook was taking place in Kosovo during the previous period, which is why he was urgently and inexplicably removed and withdrawn to America. We have the knowledge that he has been removed because of his involvement in pressure against the UN tribunal's witnesses in the war against Ramush Haradinaj. You are probably aware that some of these witnesses have been liquidated, or killed, and most of them are so intimidated that they must not appear, even as protected witnesses in The Hague tribunal, to tell what happened, what crimes were committed by Ramush Haradinaj and his associates against Serbs. Also, according to our findings, Mr. Stephen Schook is involved in drug trafficking, white slavery and weapons with Albanian terrorists. That is why we ask Mr Tadic, Mr Kostunica and Mr Vuk Jeremic to urgently ask UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon for information on the reasons for this urgent and unsettled shift, which will take place at the next session of the UN Security Council, which will take place on 8 and 9 January. We think this is essential and would give one new initiative to diplomatic representation, or diplomatic-national solution to Kosovo's problem. We also ask that the UN raise the question of responsibility and Mr. Riker, who was the head of Mr. Stephen Shuk, because it couldn't have happened, or it shouldn't have happened that he could have done such a serious abuse without being familiar with it. Please forward this initiative to this gentleman to whom the issue has been addressed and to be used in a diplomatic initiative to repair the position of Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15198	Mr Vasiljevic, you have broken the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15199	I want to advertise Article 162. The Rules of Procedure, which says that even for sessions scheduled for emergency proceedings, the material must be delivered no later than 24 hours before the beginning of that session. Gentlemen, you all know that yesterday we had a session at the House of the People's Assembly, that at one point the news was corrupting that a copy of the material, about 20 o'clock in the evening, had arrived somewhere and been seduced. I don't know why, if we couldn't get those laws, we've waited 16 hours to start working, I don't know why this congregation is messing with us. The deadlines for emergency procedures are not respected. Mr. Minister, I can't believe the DSS decided to tear this country apart. We're talking yesterday about saving Kosovo, state interests, sovereignty, territorial integrity, and you're destroying this country every day. Four fundamental laws are to be obtained this morning, on the day of the session, so that no one can live, at all, read those laws. This is extremely offensive. Couldn't you have prepared these laws before and that these laws were considered in the congregation? I don't know if there's any right to strike, which we can organise here, as MPs, and say that we have to strike this government and that we won't act like this anymore, to embarrass the people whose representatives we are here. I guess there's this people looking at us, what we're doing here! Mr. Minister, you lied, too, using a very harsh word that you have consulted the MPs' clubs about these laws. When did you consult at Parliament clubs about this law? As far as I know, I don't know, maybe, in the big Parliament clubs, maybe, a radical party, maybe some other Parliament clubs. You said here you consulted, and you didn't. So there was no consultation, we didn't get the laws in time. I don't know how you're not ashamed to continue this debate at all. Why don't you get into a situation where you don't stick to the Constitution, and you don't have a consensus about the government's work? I think this is a disaster. Mr. Minister, I heard the exposure you gave. What's the concept of decentralisation? Do you know what decentralisation means? Let's hear what powers are decentralisationd. Have we heard anything about what the concept of decentralisation is under this law? You know what that means? The competencies of the Republic move on to units, cities, no concept of decentralisation. What is the concept of Serbia's territorialisation? Have you seen the concept of decentralisation in Croatia? What kind of concept is this? What are the responsibilities of cities, 19 cities, no jurisdiction over what these cities do. What you've given us is a shame. The only thing we can call before the citizens, dear citizens, is for the MPs to strike and say, "I'm sorry, you broke the Constitution and let the government fall."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15200	The president gave an explanation at the beginning of the session. The laws are in line with the parliamentary groups and I, personally, can congratulate the minister on the energy invested. The word is made by Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15201	Mrs. Pesic, I respect too much what you did in the previous years, and your engagement, and your courage, and I certainly won't use the words you used when you spoke to me. I sent a set of laws to your MPs last week, and I asked them, knowing the problems and the lack of procedure, the timing, not to go into all that now, I simply asked, if there's anything you think we could do together, to do, and you didn't even do me the courtesy of telling me -- we're not going to talk to you, Minister. I stopped by yesterday, just in case, to ask if you had any objections, simply to see you, to ask you something. He was a colleague, not present now, we'll get back to you – he says, don't worry, so you can't say that I didn't do what I did. So, I sent a set of laws last week to your MP club. I'm not saying it's the right way, but other parliamentary clubs invited me, so I sat down with everyone individually, talking, talking, talking, some even came to me in Parliament, as MPs from the Fireman, who were members of different parliamentary groups. So, I tried really hard to talk to everyone, but you didn't want to. What's my fault now that you didn't want it? You can't say I lied to you. I didn't say that I talked to everyone, but that I talked to almost every MP group, that is, with most of the parliamentary groups. You don't want to talk to me, what I can do now. As to whether the laws are bad or good, I think they're good, you think they're bad, we'll talk about it, and I'd like you to make an argument as to why they're bad. I would especially like to hear what jurisdiction should be entered, currently about 39 are listed. I'd also ask you how do you mean by system law that it's being introduced, how do you think it's supposed to look nomotechnically? I may not know enough, but this is the best we could offer under the circumstances. I'd like to get from you concrete remarks or concrete proposals, or through amendments, so let's talk about it, maybe we can fix the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15202	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 201. On many occasions, I advertise the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, asking for answers to the same question, but before I say anything that I said yesterday, that the ruling coalition is working as in that bass about cricket and ant. You've had nine months, or 10, or 11 months since Parliament was formed, you've been distracting the citizens of Serbia, the MPs, and then, two days before the Second Regular Session of Parliament, you're proposing a whole set of laws. I don't think that's correct and it was forged when it was written that it was at four o'clock yesterday. We got it at midnight last night. To say that today, finally, after much insistence, we held a session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and that several issues were raised. First, a joint solidarity with Mrs. Petkovic. One of the topics, it's also the cause of my reporting, are abuses and robberies in the metal-chemical combination of Trepcha. It also mentions the responsibility of the civil administrator, indirectly, Mr. Riker, but I would like to address our problem and get an answer to these questions. I promised that in the form of what I do, I would demand an answer, and that I would insist on it, from the Minister of the Interior, from the Minister of Justice, from the Minister of Energy and Mining and from the Minister of Economy and Regional Development. What's this about? How is it possible to sell out "Trepce", a business space in Knez Mikhail Street, 229 square meters, at a price of 2,200 euros, ten times cheaper than the real price? There is a criminal record two years ago of abuses, as it is not only sold in the business space, but also in General Ždanovo, Cubrino in Nis, Sarajevo. Where's the money? Let me just say something else that's much worse. In the past few years, the robbery that was made in Trepci has been moving between 60m and 100m euros. How? By selling the so-called so-called "sales" in that period. lead dust between 60 and 100 thousand tonnes, at a price of 40 to 50 euros per tonne, and tons of processed lead dust, in which lead is the highest – 60%, and then other precious metals, worth 1,000 euros. As the workers of the Tropce receive 30 euros each, someone at the top of this combination has made a robbery, and it is the same company that sold the lead dust and business space on Knez Mihail Street. It is time to stand in the way of stealing and thieving in Kosovo and Metohija. While there, the poor paradise with a chill awaits every morning, to see if it will be in refugee camps, trailers, and constituencies, until some rich people buy apartments all over Europe and Prince Michael's.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15204	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I've reported in connection with Article 225 and Articles 74 and 75. It is a citizens' initiative, 32,000 citizens, to set up a survey board to establish the abuses of the Delta Company. You've already been familiar with this initiative before. I ask you, Mr. President, to remind this person, who is sitting in the other row on my right, not to throw, does not wink or do other uncultural things, which he is used to doing in this assembly. That's what I do for you. So, we've already talked about the Delta Company here, about the polling committee in this assembly. The idea was rejected by the ruling majority for the second time. This is clear evidence that our request, as well as our citizens' request for this polling committee, is entirely justified, for the simple reason that the ruling coalition, or individual ministers, has been confirmed by the company "Delta" and Mr Miskovic, for the sake of direct support of these abuses. I suppose the gentleman from New Serbia, who answered his word, will come out again and say that LDP MPs were not here in full numbers when voting on this polling committee. The reason for that is quite simple. The LDP president is a presidential candidate. Mr Jovanovic is in the campaign and, as he and other LDP officials, including MPs, are in the field with him. Because of this and because of the weather, we haven't been able to get to the beginning of the session and we are attending your proposal to put this on the agenda. There have been many more chances and other opportunities to do such a thing in the last few days, or after this session is over. Because everything you do, you do back-to-back, you deliver resolutions after midnight, at midnight you deliver four laws on local self-government, or laws that can enable you to comply with the constitutional law and call the local elections, so it's completely incorrect what's been said to have been 24 hours. Please let us get a message from you, Mr. President, about what it is that doesn't give you and doesn't allow us to speak openly about the Delta Company and Mr. Miskovic even on the board of inquiry? You must remember the situation when you banned the LDP from holding a press conference in the press room because it was on one of the posters that belonged to the name of the LDP. We entered this assembly as an LDP and it was quite logical that on that poster, which speaks of not wanting to live in Delta State, it stands in the signature of LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15206	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milisav Petronijevic. I hope that Mr Markicevic, perhaps, will discuss this with LDP MPs, so that we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15207	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I'm not going to use the time scheduled to report to the Rules of Procedure, but I want to be very direct, unlike the Minister. The minister talked a lot here, but he didn't say the key thing. I went out to ask him the key thing. One in on you, Mr. President. We started working normally, the session was interrupted and the MPs weren't respected at all, so someone would tell them why it was interrupted. That, Mr. President, is a greater shame than...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15208	You're right, Mr. Petronievich. As far as I'm concerned, the minister gave an explanation afterwards. I apologize for that. It's important that we keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15209	I just called to say he didn't give an explanation. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you one more time. It is unacceptable and unauthorized for the police to solve local problems in any municipality. I'm asking, who sent the police to Grock? If you can't answer the question, I'm asking the government to respond urgently. I'm not giving up the question until I get an answer. On what grounds did he send the police to Grock? Whose call? What do they have to solve? Is it legal or not legal, Mr. Minister, and vice versa? If all this is legal, who ordered her to come back? I don't insist on one thing, but you can't treat the National Assembly like this, turkey dots don't apply. Mr. Minister, you just said, unfortunately, that this is a state of law, because the legal cannot enter, or legitimate won't come out. What do we do now? Who needs to solve this, Mr. Minister? Whose jurisdiction is that? I know the municipalities in Belgrade are a local community, with the competences of local communities. This is also the largest municipality per capita in Serbia, Novi Belgrade, with more than 300,000 inhabitants, with the local community's competences. Is the city of Belgrade responsible for this, or who is responsible and who will solve it? Otherwise, as far as anyone's concerned, we'll make a deal later, and then it's no longer valid, so we'll start over, etc., it can't. I insist on these answers. Either you get them, or you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15210	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Verica Radet, as an authorised representative of the SRS Parliament Club. The next reported MP, Zarko Obradovic, is in front of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15211	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, what happened today in the Municipality of Grock, which happened a few days ago in the municipality of Rum, the fact that we have ten or eleven municipalities in Serbia at the moment where forced administration was introduced, is the consequence of the very bad laws that regulated this matter and that's what SRS MPs were talking about at the time these laws were passed. We were able to predict exactly what kind of situation would happen and everything that could have been the worst that could have happened was in the application of the current, or current Law on Local Self-Government. The set of laws that we are discussing today, or the proposals for a law on local self-government, on the capital, on local elections and on territorial organisation, are the obligations of this Parliament, which are set out in Article 3(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS, our parliamentary group, believes it is good that these laws are passed and that this Assembly should respect the Constitution and constitutional law, because if it is not us who are passing the laws, then I don't know which Serbian citizens might expect such an obligation. It is true that Mr Milan Markovic, a resolute minister, has held consultations, I suppose with other parliamentary groups, with the SRS parliamentary group, and we think that this is a good way of communicating between the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, or parliamentary groups. It is also true that the number of objections we had on that initial text was accepted. Of course, in the course of commentary of all these bill proposals, I will present what is very important for the SRS, and what is contained in these laws. We have submitted 12 amendments in total to all four laws, actually, on three, to the Law on Territorial Organization, we have not had any amendments. Since the MPs of the SRS are very detailed in reading, controlling, I think this is both legal and technical, a group of laws that have been done in a satisfactory manner. It must have been influenced by this fact that Mr Milan Markovic, who I reiterated, which is communication with parliamentary groups, but, I say, the fact that we, who read and what is written and what can be read between the lines, have failed to find more complaints, is about the fact that it is about good laws. I expect, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've received these amendments, given that, indeed, it was a very short period and that we have handed them over, literally, at the last minute, that you will seriously consider the amendments and that I suppose we will have your consent, perhaps, and the Committee to accept them, in order to respect the deadline, i.e. in order for these laws to be passed within the time limit provided for in the Constitutional Law. Not to be misread, we do not make any concessions to the DS when we speak of these laws in this way, nor to Minister Milan Markovic, who is from that party. We simply show that SRS MPs, as well as the SRS, are taking care of state interests, national interests. We also showed that last night, when we discussed the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, when, despite certain objections, despite certain fears we raised, we voted in favour of the resolution. When it comes to these laws, I will now, individually, say a few sentences, what is most important, and because of the MPs and, of course, the public. On the proposal for a law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, I said, we did not have any significant objections. In addition to the names and seats of the settlements, the law has some 15 members, approximately, there contained everything that allows, above all, the residents of a specific territory of Serbia to organise municipalities, cities, etc. I think this law, indeed, can be accepted, precisely, in this form. When it comes to the Law on Local Self-Government, that's the law I was talking about earlier and that caused the problem from the beginning of this session, there are several newspapers in the law we're discussing today and these newspapers are, in fact, the essence of which solves all future, possible, problems. I think we have come to the fact that we have achieved many years of experience in the work and functioning of local self-government, which through amendments, which through remarks, which, of course, through the basic text that we have received from the Ministry, to install and to make, indeed, an acceptable law on local self-government. Here I will first mention Article 15, which says that units of local self-government have their own property, that their property is self-managed by the authorities of the local self-government unit, in accordance with the law. I think all those who say there is no decentralisation in this law can look at, among other things, this member who talks about it. What is particularly important for the SRS, which is absolutely fitting into our party programme, is the fact that this law provides that the president of the municipality chooses the assembly of the council of council members, at a time of four years, by a secret vote, most of the votes of the total number of council members of the municipality. This is contained in Article 43. Why do I say that we care that this is contained in this law? Because this is literally, like it was prescribed from the SRS program. Because you remember that we, the Serbian radicals, and when we adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, advocated that the President of the Republic was also elected in Parliament, but given that when the Constitution was adopted, it was necessary and desirable to reach a certain consensus, all the parliamentary groups and parties that participated in the drafting of the text of the Constitution, in some ways, gave way to their programming and principled views. We then estimated that it could stay in the Constitution, but it's good that this law on local self-government predicts it. We have one principled remark, and we have not submitted the amendment. There are several places, mentioned in Article 56, that the head of the municipal administration, i.e. the administration of certain areas, sets the municipal council higher, based on a public ad, for five years. Our remark is that this can't be five, but four years, but we knew that the amendment wouldn't be accepted, because, I suppose, Minister, that's how you answered me when I asked you, the Law on Civil Service and Peasants predicts that five-year term. So that's something that we Serbian radicals don't like, but when we're in a position, and if God does, we'll be changing that law soon; then it won't be any problem to change the provisions of both this law and these laws that predict those five-year deadlines. When it comes to the law on the capital, the powers of the city of Belgrade are contained in Article 8 and we here have one objection, to which we amendedly intervened, in paragraph 2. We have suggested that point 5 be deleted, which says the city of Belgrade can establish television and radio stations, newspapers and other means of public communication. Our amendment is, on the one hand, a principled attitude and a programming definition of the SRS, and, on the other hand, this is contrary to the Broadcasting Law. I expect, Minister, that you will accept the amendment, not because it is the programming position of the SRS, but because it is contrary to the Broadcasting Law. It's our fundamental objection. Of course, we expect that part of the Belgrade city's jurisdiction, as provided for in Article 8, should be defined according to the city's municipalities. We heard in your opening statement that you expect it too. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. In any case, Article 8 provides for everything that is the jurisdiction of the city, and we will see, not only in Article 8, but also in Article 12, with a view to being a member13. We have a complaint. We have responded to the amendment in paragraph 3, where it is said that the adoption of the city's statutes is decided by the majority of the votes of the total number of committees. We have suggested that the same majority should also apply to the adoption of budgets and urban plans. We think it's serious acts and it's a very involved amendment. In Article 23, the mayor is scheduled to elect the City Assembly from the council, within four years, by a secret vote, most of the total number of council members of the City Assembly. This is also the programming of the SRS, and I guess, based on everything I've said about these three laws, that it's clear to everyone why we're saying this is a pretty good set of laws. Local election law. There, too, we have several objections. In these five or six minutes, I'm going to run over those most important provisions. Since Article 23 provides for the signatures of voters who support the electoral list to be certified in accordance with the law governing the overa of signatures, the last position is to determine, Mr Minister, that the amount of the fee for the overing of the signature is determined by a special act, by the ministry responsible for the affairs of justice. The amendment intervened to be the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and to be right after the election, and here's why. We don't think that local elections need not have these signatures certified in court, but that they can be certified in the municipality, or local offices, so that people don't get bullied if they come from the village to the city. For this practical reason, it is necessary that this ministry also determines the amount of compensation. Article 26 provides for the order of the electoral lists, with the names of all candidates, to be determined in the summary voter's list according to the order of their declaration. It's something that's really normal and that can't be regulated otherwise. Article 28 discusses the responsibility of the electoral commission. The last stance says the electoral commission is closer to determining the content, shape and appearance of ballots, the way and control of their printing and delivery and handling of ballots. As always, we are cautious, so we have amendedly intervened, that here it says that the electoral commission also determines the printing press, or the ballot printer. Now everyone can do it, however, the commission can decide. I think you'll consider that, Minister. Article 34 discusses how to vote. Among other things, paragraph 3 says the vote is said to be voted by rounding up a regular number in front of the name of the electoral list voted for or rounding the voter list. Here we have intervened with the amendment to stand – or in another way, where it can obviously be determined which election list the voter wanted to vote for. Why? Because I'm talking about practice. For example, someone will round up a regular number and a name, or round up a regular number and a name at the same time, or draw up an election list, so that the election committees don't have a problem when they count ballots at the end of the day. We think everything should be precise and clear. We all have many years of experience in this business and it's good to pass our experience on to this law, that we don't have to change every moment. In addition, the SRS' proposal adopted a Law on the selection of MPs in October 2000. It's still, with minor changes, in effect, so I think we should now pass laws that will last a long time. The 40th article provides for the allocation of mandates, to include electoral lists that received at least 5% of the total number of voters' votes, i.e. to make it easy for the people to understandably tell them, the census has been raised to 5%. We think that this is good and that the political scene in Serbia needs to be accumulated and serious, and this is one of the ways that this really happens. Article 41 also provides for a proportionate electoral system, a calculation of the parliamentary mandates per so-called ‘. Dont's system. It's something the SRS advocates, and it's very acceptable for us. Under Article 43, the applicant of the electoral list, no later than 10 days after the date of publication of the total election results, will provide the electoral commission of the local self-government unit with information on which the candidates on the electoral list are assigned their parliamentary mandates. We think this is a good solution and this is also the position of the SRS. This is a good solution, exactly, because of the experiences we had in the previous period. If it is a proportional system, it is the party that will determine which candidates will be the committees. It is, of course, in the interest of every serious party. On the end of the term of office and on the reelection, you, Mr. Minister, spoke about the relationship between the applicants, i.e. the party and the candidates, later the committee. There's really nothing to add, it's a good solution, which the SRS supports, even propagating. We've had problems in this House, and we need to find a way to overcome it. On the confirmation of the committee's mandate, on the basis of the verification committee's report, the assembly decides by public vote. The vote may include candidates for committees to whom the mandates are assigned in accordance with Article 43 of this law and who have the confidence of the electoral commission. This is from Article 56, which you were also talking about, which I find very important, but I don't want to abuse time. I will just comment on Article 60, which stipulates that the first elections for committees of local self-government units in all units of local self-government, following the entry into force of this law, will be announced by the president of the National Assembly, so that they will be held within a deadline that cannot be shorter than 120 days or longer than 180 days from the election day. We did not intervene here, but I just want to remind you, Mr. Dulic, that when you call the election, take care of Article 8(3). Is Mr. Dulic listening to me? I don't think so. Mr. Dulic, article 60 is talking about when the first next election under this law is being discussed. We have not written the amendment, but I warn you of Article 8(3) that you are obliged to determine, when you call the elections, those first next ones, whether they will be after 120 or 150 days, or at the latest 180 days. The law leaves you, when adopted, the opportunity to choose for yourself, but to set an appropriate time limit, from which elections will begin. That appropriate time limit should certainly be the one foreseen for the regular calling of elections under this law, and not only concerning this Article 60. So this would be the shortest SRS position on these draft laws. You have heard, Ministers and fellow MPs, our remarks, which we have made through the amendments. We expect that you will accept the amendments, because I think that this way, I have not seen the amendments of the other colleagues, I suppose other parliamentary groups have submitted amendments, if the amendments are good, we will improve this law, and we are ready for them to vote. Indeed, I expect, and it would be good, because these are not political laws, these are laws on which local self-governments operate, to reach a consensus on these laws, and I count on both MPs and you, Minister, when it comes to objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15212	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I pray to understand what Mrs. Radetti has been given five minutes more, but the SRS has concentrated all of the exposure in Mrs. Radete's presentation as an authorised representative, so I hope you have understanding. Also, we have made one failure, I did not ask if the rapporteur of the Committee on Local Self-Government and MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, who singled out his opinion. I'm asking the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government if he wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15213	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to make it possible for me to present the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today to suggest that today, indeed, we have a debate on laws that define the position of local self-government. The bill itself on local self-government is often called a small constitution. The importance of this law for the functioning of the entire state, and for the citizens themselves, is not particularly important to highlight MPs who have had experience in local self-government. It is clear how important it is for the stability and functioning of the state itself to pass these laws. The Committee on Local Self-Government supported the laws in principle. Tomorrow it is the Committee's session on the agenda of the debate in particular, and I can say, on the basis of the amendments that have come, that there are really quality and good amendments. I call on all parliamentary groups to carefully study the amendments submitted, in order to improve the proposed texts of all four laws to the greatest extent possible. What adorned the previous period, when it comes to the preparation of the law, is precisely what my colleague Verica Radeta said, the constructiveness and express desire among all parliamentary groups to come up with a quality text, which will remove the crucial problem we have as a state since the law was passed since 2002, and, in fact, since the 2004 elections, which is a huge instability in local self-government. As Minister Markovic said, at this point we have 11 units of local self-government that have been disbanded, but since 2004, we have had many local self-governments that were, in order to express themselves, under forced measures, that is, the government has educated temporary authorities, so when they take the total number of these local self-governments, they certainly reach one quarter of the local self-government. This instability, which has proved itself to be the cause of still existing laws, has now been removed to the greatest extent possible. The causes were, primarily, lack of political culture for the functioning of local self-government in the principle of cohabitation, when the president of the municipality is from one political option and the assembly majority from another political option. That dispute, unfortunately, I can say, based on the experiences that I had following the functioning of local self-government, was caused by the president of the municipality, and the council of municipalities paid for it. The government did not have mechanisms for the president of the municipality, but congregations of municipalities were disbanded, because the president of the municipality failed to receive support for his proposals in local self-government units. The way in which the mayors of the municipal administration, the way in which they were elected and resolved, created serious crises in the functioning of local self-government. Also, the way the deputy president of the municipality was elected, where consent was sought between the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality, was the cause of these problems. There's been a lot of cases like this. The law on local self-government, which we are now adopting, removes it in a quality way. What is the fundamental intensity of the law, the minister said in his presentation, is to open up the possibility that, in the coming period, cities and local self-governments will begin to take over those responsibilities that, in fact, already do, and that citizens expect them to, in terms of economy and social policy, because our citizens expect local self-governments, although, formally, do not have those responsibilities, to solve these problems, because this is the level of government that is closest to them. Of course, we also expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to define this impulse, which will be defined by the law on territorial organisation, the formation of cities, to receive and to show courage to transfer certain competences to cities, so that cities are the backbones of even regional development. I understood the intensity of both the Ministry and the Government, precisely, that cities would be the backbone of even regional development, because we are now faced with one drastic and dangerous situation, that the whole parts of the Republic of Serbia, especially its southeast, are suffering from serious demographic, social and all other problems that threaten national security, if there is a more serious analysis of the situation in which certain parts of the Republic of Serbia are located. The very strong cities, as proposed, should aim to create the backbone of regional development and strengthen other local self-government in their environment. An important law, which we all look forward to, is expected for all local self-government to be able to attract investment and lead a serious economic policy, which is a law on the property of local self-government, and it is an appeal to be found in the congregation procedure as soon as possible. In the end, a good, constructive, as someone here said, state atmosphere ruled when the solutions found in the proposed laws were adopted. It would be good for her to go through the discussion, today, in principle debate, and, afterwards, in the discussion in particular, so that, after yesterday's serious message that we are a state that protects our territorial integrity, we now show that we are all serious and mature politicians, which is also the lowest level, on which the functioning of the state depends, but also the life of an ordinary citizen, we know that we recognize and that we are uniquely solving. In this regard, as chairman of the Committee, I suggest that the National Assembly adopt the proposed laws unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15214	Does National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on Local Self-Government on Law Proposals, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15215	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you, Mr. President, my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, before I state my reasons for issuing an opinion on this committee, Mr. President, that is to say that I would like to join my presentation with a metric exposure, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, for the sake of the economics of time. Do I have that license?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15216	Mr. Obradich, do you agree? Here you go, Mr. Obradovic agrees. You have 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15217	At the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, I set out my opinion, but before I state the reasons, I would say what I said in the Committee on Local Self-Government, which is that both colleagues Palalic and Mr. Minister have shown the will to co-operate and I thank them for that. Neither is Mr. Palalic – the ruling coalition, nor is Mr. Markovic – the government. They tried everything that was aimed at the ruling coalition, to ease, mostly unsuccessfully, what is a fact, which is that the government itself, who proposed this set of laws, had a very irresponsible relationship with the whole process of proposing these laws, which, in the end, means that counterpart Vesna Pesic was quite right, giving objections to the procedure, or the way we came to this draft of the law. I would add that in the Committee's session for more than 20 minutes, we have waited for this committee to get a quorum, which is a scandalous relationship between the ruling coalition and this set of laws, and according to many of what is happening in the government and in this Parliament. As far as the adoption process is concerned, I would point out that the law is not only a material law norm, it is a law and procedure. The procedure for adopting this set of laws is, I would say, the ultimate insolence of the government. First of all, it's scandalous that such important laws, therefore, system laws, are summed up in five hours of debate and considered as a unique item of the agenda. We remember very well that we've been going through some laws here, which are far less important, and for a few days, and it's not the first time. It's been happening with a lot of important laws. Let's remember the Constitutional Court Act. Let's think of the so-called. Security laws. If I hadn't gone back to what was already said, I would have moved on to the measure itself, to the commentary of the set of laws. So what I would point out is that this is a principled position, in line with all that is in these laws, that the principle of regionalisation and fundamental decentralisation is not sufficiently respected, that is, in some segments it is completely neglected. All the positive sides of essential decentralisation have been ignored. To point out, 95% of democratically formed states in the world are made up of decentralised units, whose bodies are formed by direct and free will of citizens, drawn up in the elections, which entails political stability, the stability of public service performance, the insistence on citizens' equality and one macroeconomic stability. The proposed set of laws offers an inexhaustible combination of simple and asymmetric decentralisation, according to the nadaladic solutions that stand in the Constitution. Unfortunately, our laws are bad, perhaps not because the legislator wanted it so, but because our constitution is disastrous. The legislator did not take into account the positive experiences of developed countries, as well as countries in the immediate neighbourhood. The existing number of municipalities, which are disproportionately different by population, territory, economic strength and other specificities, are contained. The issue of ownership of local self-government units has not been resolved, and the solution has not been offered in the nearer perspective. For all the claims I made as principled remarks, I'll give a brief explanation. As for the example of free decentralisation, I will point out that Austria, on the surface of 83. 857 km2 has 2. 353 first-degree units, not to mention Estonia, Slovenia, etc., which have similar access to the organisation of local self-government. How many municipalities do we have? I have already noted that both in economic strength and in territory, and in population, they are in a huge disproportionate proportion. I'd also ask a question, what about the two-stage decentralisation proposals that have been applied in countries that count about 10 million people, which are actually similar to our country, not to talk about larger countries that have triple decentralisation? Next, another explanation. The types of decentralisation in the Constitution since 2006, therefore, in the one that has been current, have mainly been repeated solutions to the territorial arrangement of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 1990. That's where I would mention asymmetric territorial autonomy. In part of state territory, the question is whether they are located, the provinces of an unequal status. I would also ask for an explanation for the monotypic local self-government, and based on what I just said, it was supposed to be two degrees. Next, of course, it's a review of the Constitution, according to Article 170. The Constitution – the Assembly is the highest body of AP and units of local self-government. So-called The congregation system of government, according to the letter of the Constitution, could not be avoided in the organisation of the congregations of municipalities, but could have been avoided in the organisation of the congregations of cities, because the Constitution allows such possibility. But I wouldn't be too long on it, because we've proposed it to the amendments. Accordingly, I would take advantage of the time that, as a parliamentary group, belongs to us for amendments to explain the matter mentioned, which concerns the mentioned member of the Constitution. Now I would also refer to some measures that could improve the position of units of local self-government, which the legislator did not take seriously into consideration. The specific question is whether the government will take these measures into account and in what way? First of all, I asked that question in a way, and it concerns the adoption of a law that will regulate the property of local self-government, which there is no word in this set of laws, and the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which, of course, focuses on the question of when we can expect a law on public property, which should regulate these issues. Furthermore, the issue of regulating the distribution of revenue from the compensation for the use of goods of general interest and other concessions, which are not regulated by the Law on the financing of local self-government. Then, the issue of granting the possibility of issuing guarantees, legal processing, borrowing forms, lack of local self-government. I mean classic credit arrangements and broadcasting debt securities of value, etc. All of these examples can also be seen in well-organized states, with strong local self-government. Also, the question, will the appropriate legal and sublegal solutions regulate the procedure for entering local self-government into concession arrangements for building and maintaining municipal infrastructure, when effective valorisation of space will be carried out? Then, the issue of extending the rights of local self-government to enter financial arrangements for building facilities on the territory of the municipality, sports-recreative facilities, Banjski and rural tourism, etc. Of course, and the issue of sublegal acts that should be supporting the said regulation. In the end, I'd like to ask a strategic question. We have also foreseen this question in the amendment that we have proposed. I'd like to get an answer to that question. It is of strategic importance for the development of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, from Zaječar to the Macedonian border, no place has the status of the city and is located near the border with Bulgaria. If we remember that on the subject of the population of these parts, I'm going to use the hard word, they're dying, is it all the same for the government to pay attention to that question, to get the status of the city, because, apart from the number of residents, by all the other attributes that are provided for by the territorial organization law, and by the law of local self-government, it meets all the necessary criteria to get the status of the city? You take that as a principle question, and I'd like to analyse the details when we talk about the amendments submitted by the LDP Parliamentary Group. Mr. President, thank you for your understanding, I would spend the rest of the time belonging to our parliamentary group to give the final word after the principle debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15218	I thank you, too. It's no problem. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy head of the SPS Parliament Club. Let me just give you a heads-up. So today we're working until the end of this agenda, tomorrow we're not working, the debate in particular will be on Saturday, so you're planning your duties. So, Saturday, about 10 o'clock. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15219	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, tonight we are discussing a set of very important laws, however, a little speedy, and the reason is the constitutional law's obligation to pass laws by the end of this year that would create the possibility of calling local elections. Personally, I think, we at the SPS, too, that this speed wasn't needed, because the ruling coalition could have done it months before it could make these laws. Why am I saying this? I think this law is a step forward, Mr. Minister, in relation to a law that is valid, but it's still not what could be covered by content, under the notion of local self-government. I think this law suffers from one fundamental flaw, which is that, objectively, it pushes a citizen, as the holder of the right to local self-government, on the other hand. When you look at the solutions in this law, the way you choose a councilman, then you will see that the proportional electoral system, as a valid one, and the way you choose a councilman, objectively, so to speak, puts a citizen in one special situation – he chooses a councilman, and the committee then does the job, or votes for the party, and the party chooses a councilman, which is the second phase. And when you look at these forms of direct participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, I'll explain it in more detail later, you'll see that these forms, objectively, are modest, that the very high conditions are prescribed and, practically, are brought to the impossible stage. When you look at the essence of local self-government, the rights of citizens to manage public affairs at the level of local self-government, and you already have two limiting moments, then the question arises – what is the essence of local self-government? It means that only elected committees, on behalf of and for the account of citizens, do these public affairs, and that the citizen, as the holder of the right to local self-government, should remain in a different plan. It's a fundamental grudge to this law. Unfortunately, the existing system, which is provided for in the law, speaks in favour of this thesis I put forward on behalf of the SPS. I think that we are better off with some 1999 solutions, when the Socialists, together with the MPs of the SRS, passed the Law on Local Self-Government, because there are several good solutions, including a solution to KIM, which I will talk about later. Otherwise, when I said that this law represents a step forward in relation to the existing law, these late recognitions are the sweetest, because it happened, yesterday when we talked about KIM, some of the assessments, which we Socialists had made in earlier years, were confirmed yesterday by the ruling coalition, first of all, by Mr Tadic and Mr Kostunica, as well as by other MPs. The same applies to this law on local self-government. When you look at the arguments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, essentially, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, you will see that there is an assessment that we made in 2002, when this law was adopted. The legislator himself finds that the existing law has a lot of legal indetermination and—"there are solutions that make it difficult or even impossible to function local self-government". They are making it impossible, and this is an example of the relationship between the president of the municipality and the assembly of the municipality. We socialists differ, for example, in the part of an explanation of this relationship from Mr. Palalic. We do not think that the main cause of this is in the president, but vice versa, because some municipalities had only one job all the time – how to bring down the president of the municipality, especially if he is a Socialist. Take a look at Gornji Milanovac, so you will see what is the problem of blocking the work of the Assembly of the Municipality. They even launched a referendum. They didn't make it. Or, look at the Frogs. The entire coalition has teamed up to bring down the president of the municipality. They organized the plea, failed, and then the municipal court called incompetent. Here we support this solution of yours so that the second-degree court at the county level, the district court, will be someone who will give a final position, because when the municipal court is, then the matter is completely clean, but it's not answered by the authorities. Why? Because it won't interfere with local affairs, because then it's about these local relationships between people, which and how they affect the fate of local self-government. Otherwise, when it comes to the law on local self-government, everyone calls on the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government to speak one way or another, and we heard tonight and about how the mayors choose – in the documents of the Council of Europe, it is qualified to be able to do both in one way and another. What was a fundamental difference, fully responsible, any local self-government and during the 1990s, and when, in 1999, socialists, together with radicals passed the law, and after 2000, our local self-government, regardless of how anyone experiences it in relation to the Charter of Local Self-Government, is only a matter of property. That's the fundamental difference. Under the new constitution, local self-government has been granted the right to dispose of property and can then be said, if we have satisfied this element on the basis of constitutional principles, that our local self-government is now complemented by the content of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. When I mentioned the content of this law and why I think the spirit of the law in the part of the participation of citizens in local self-government, i.e. the exercise of their right to local self-government, is not well solved, first of all, I mean the electoral system. It cannot be denied, regardless of the amount of praise, that local self-government is an insignificant majority way of selecting a councilman. For a small million reasons, it is because this average voter is easier to understand, because a more direct link is being made between citizens and candidates, and later, when that candidate is elected, between citizens and elected committee members. Look at the structure of local self-government in Serbia, look at the huge difference between municipalities, and you'll see a huge number of small municipalities. Then it's logical that in that local self-government, especially where small municipalities, choose, or choose the best, most famous, most capable. Whether or not political party representatives are already another issue, but that is the essence of local self-government – to choose those who would best express the will of the electoral body and represent that environment. The quality of candidates in the majority electoral system is dominant in relation to other criteria and now, objectively, it has been a practice shown, it is not our socialist or anyone in this assembly. It is known that the majority electoral system leads to a stable parliament. Of course, it also has numerous shortcomings, such as that it does not properly respect the fact that even with the relative majority you can get an absolute majority, that is enough vote more, so that the one who lost as if he had lost nothing, or that he does not enjoy the confidence of the citizens. Political life eliminates smaller and medium parties, not respecting political pluralism at the level of local self-government. All of these are some shortcomings, as can be objectively said, that the existing electoral system, which is provided for in the law, has certain shortcomings. I see that the promoter, through election censorship and through the way in which the committee candidates were determined, tried to group the political scene at the local level. It can objectively happen that people, which is their right, form coalitions and the like, coalitions of parties, associations and reach those 5% locally, which will not be impossible somewhere, given the number of voters in certain units of local self-government, but then it has something that we have seen so far – these loose coalition governments at local level, objectively paralysing the work of the local parliament and preventing local self-government from functioning at the benefit of citizens. I mentioned one, in my opinion, the crown argument: citizens vote for the party, so the party elects a councilman, who then represents citizens in the municipality's assembly, which is, objectively, the form of indirect elections, because the citizen chooses a political party, not a councilman. So there's this brightness of advantages and disadvantages, but we can see that the majority's attitude is to be a proportional electoral system, although it can't deny the fact that the majority electoral system is immeasurable to local self-government, that it's one of the forms of local self-government. Nor can it be denied that the right of citizens to choose mayors was progress, from the point of view of the right of citizens to participate in the elections and to choose their own representative, it was then also the authority of local self-government, but the fact that in our political system, in our local self-government, this mini-presidential system at the local level, with a assembly that was different party composition, was objectively leading to a single upgrade, not to work in the function of local self-government, but rather led to an upgrade. I took two examples, Gornji Milanovac and Žabara, where we had, a couple of excellances, that local self-government, in the presence of the municipality, did not do what was necessary, but the main task was to change the president of the municipality as soon as possible. When I mentioned the forms of participation of citizens in local self-government, the law envisioned a assembly of citizens, a citizens' initiative and a referendum. Let me just get back to the election system. We Socialists wanted to be a mixed electoral system, however, we realized that most in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accept a solution with a proportional electoral system and then such an initiative would simply not be justified. When it comes to the forms of participation of citizens in the affairs of local self-government, I will mention the referendum and the people's initiative. Data are two very difficult conditions for a referendum and then the question of their essence is raised. To hold a referendum in the local self-government unit, 10% of signatures are required. Those 10% of signatures may seem small or much, but if you watch Belgrade, with a million and 700 thousand voters, then the 10% of 170, and 30,000 signatures are required for one bill, while 43 or 45 thousand were required for the mayor of Belgrade, and for the president of the state -- 10,000 certified signatures. These are the paradoxes that, objectively, must be changed in some future period, if we want the referendum, as a form of citizen participation in the affairs of local self-government, to make sense. If we don't want to, then that's another thing, then I don't know what the law's for, and if we want to, then we need to create conditions to really be a referendum. In particular, the second condition is very difficult for more than 50% of eligible voters to take part in the decision. It's an abnormally high condition at a time when elections are not held. See statistics related to all additional elections or, even, referendums, when deciding who will be mayor, or whether an initiative to replace mayors will succeed. It's never been more than 30, 40, maybe 45%, it rarely happened, compared to the initiatives, that it was over 50%. When it comes to the People's Initiative, 10% of voters' signatures to launch the People's Initiative are also a very high condition. Why is it a high condition? On the occasion of 10% of the signature, Mr. Minister, for the launch of the National Initiative, the Assembly has an obligation to hold the debate and give an answer. It will turn out that the initiative will require more signatures than the number of votes for some committees selected, and they will decide that this initiative is not valid; it must be in accordance with the law, but it is not good, it has no essence and no obligation for a referendum. Because if the municipal council ignores the attitude of citizens, then it would be logical for it to be the subject of a referendum statement. This is how an entire initiative with a huge number of signatures ends with the decision of the congregation of the municipality. It's one thing that, in our opinion, is very bad. When I said that I think that the 1999 law is better for some solutions, I can't help but mention three attitudes about, for example, Kosovo and Metohija, because I saw, and in the previous law, and in this, that the question, I don't know why, is avoided. I don't see any reason. Yesterday, you saw that the Assembly, with 220 votes, a convincing majority, had given its support to the Negotiating Team and had been traversing something called state policy. I don't understand why the promoter didn't find room to put a member on KIM's provisional international administration in the transitional and finalisation of the provisions and that elections will be held for the authorities of local self-government units after the completion of that temporary international administration. I'm glad he has that amendment. I don't see any reason why it doesn't stand, because the 1999 law envisioned, for example, the work, the composition, the organisation and manner of the work of the authorities in certain units of local self-government, so it also predicted the municipalities of KIM. He predicted a two-degree local self-government. I'm telling you, the law we're discussing, as well as the existing one-stage local self-government, which is, objectively, very difficult to put into the law, with the fact that you have a municipality of 15 thousand inhabitants and a city of millions and seven hundred thousand inhabitants, and they all have the same rights and jurisdiction, which is almost impossible to connect with one law, especially when you take additional elements, the size of territory of some units of local self-government, economic possibilities, which are fantastically diametric, and then you get into a situation to solve the square of the circle. The state must at some point find the strength to take a step forward and try to solve this Gordi knot, in order to have a local self-government that will meet the needs of citizens, which will have clearly specified rights, clearly defined obligations, but in the part where the state can influence local self-government, i.e. to provide the resources needed to function local self-government, then the state finds a mechanism to solve that issue too. I deliberately mentioned this law in 1999 and Kosovo and Metohija, since we discussed the subject yesterday and I think it could have been an integral part of this law. One more thing. Mr. Minister, we've submitted over twenty amendments. I think they make a lot of sense. Please consider them carefully, as well as the amendments of the other colleagues. Because these four laws are important, and there aren't many amendments, which says that MPs went to the essence, in order to find, really, the solution that will help make the law as good as possible. I don't want to individually list what amendments these are, but there are amendments to extend the deadlines for holding elections. We think that 30-60 days is very little, especially when you take into account some of the electoral actions; we will practically get into a situation that cannot be reached. We have submitted an amendment to reduce the number of signatures for smaller municipalities. We have proposed erasing the obligation to verify the signature of voters who support the proposal of candidates for committees, because in many municipalities the situation is such that it is impossible to provide judicial verifyers in the law provided for by the deadline, due to a small number of judicial verifyers. What our colleague Rajko Baralic says, from Cačka to Zlatibor, is the question of how many verifyers there are. Consider that individual parties will want to do the job effectively, so that at some point it may not be possible for others to do so. Mr. Minister, I would like you to explain to us what will be the fate of the Serb people in municipalities where they are minority. Does it apply to them that there is no threshold for entering local self-government? I'm asking consciously. Statistics, demographics, censuses talk about the majority and the minority. I don't mind that minority members don't have a threshold for entering local self-government, but we have a situation that in certain municipalities there will be members of the Serb people. It's not about who the minority is, which is most, but what's the natural threshold, so you'll see that it can happen in certain municipalities, for practical reasons, that can't be entered. Mr. Minister, as the end of my presentation approaches, I expect that after the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government, the question of the fate of municipal councils in local self-government units where the government, more than a year ago and a few days ago, will be resolved by a forced administration. To remind us, in Užica, Smederev, Zrenjanin, the government imposed a forced administration on 16 November 2006, Babišnica and Valjevo – December 2006, Leskovci – April 2007, Bogatic – in April 2007, Kula, also, Velika Gradište – in May 2007 and Smederjevska Palanca – in July 2007. There are probably more municipalities where forced administration was introduced. I have repeatedly, Mr. Minister, criticised the way the government behaves, because it does not apply constitutional standards related to the composition of the council that it forms, which should reflect the party and national membership of the assembly. Since we are now adopting a law on local self-government, and we know, based on the provisions of this law, that the first local elections will be between 30 April and 30 June, means, most likely in May of next year, the government has plenty of time to form a new council, to respect the Constitution, to respect itself, to respect this law and to make this new larger preparations, to do the work of the assembly of municipalities until new local elections are held. It would be disastrous, and objectively, not to use a heavy word unfairly from the government, not to do so, because she had an excuse that she couldn't apply the Constitution, because there's no law, here, now she has a law. You'll have plenty of time to form bigger ones that will respect the SO composition that are disbanded. I'm saying this because of a large number of municipalities, I've mentioned a dozen of them. A huge number of citizens, several hundred thousand, cannot fulfill their right to participate in the affairs of local self-government. That's what some body that the government formed does. This is a transitional step forward, or a transitional period, to come up with the opportunity for citizens to express themselves directly in the election of their will. Mr. Minister, I expect that from you. I said that, for reasons of systemic character, this law is not acceptable to us, we will not vote for it, but we expect, despite that you will show professional understanding of the content of these amendments. There's 20 of them, and I think everyone's guessing the essence of things. I think there are a lot of solutions among them that can be accepted, not only for the content of the law on local self-government, but also for cities, because you've increased the number of cities. We know that some MPs had a conversation at the Ministry and that it produced fruit. He has an initiative, like that of our colleague Dimitrievich, related to Negotin. I think all these amendments need to be seriously considered and, regardless of the short time, see what can be adopted, because I think it can only improve the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15220	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15221	We've had three very high-quality exhibitions and I think it's okay to take a call, so let me say a few things about the attitudes that have been expressed here. I'd like to start with my colleague, Zarko Obradovic. I am sorry that due to the very different views on the electoral system itself, these laws are not acceptable to you, but the issue of the electoral system has two dimensions. One is undeniably political, and that is – what most parties in Serbia want at this point. At the republican level, we have introduced a provision that is contained in Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is undeniable that the issues of the transition of MPs from one camp to another have caused some problems, it is undeniable that this is a key problem when it comes to units of local self-government, it is indisputable that we cannot ask for a clear majority system to have the mandate, i.e. that anyone else has a mandate to the committee itself. I conclude that I am a great supporter that MPs and committees are the owners of mandates and that there is a direct link between them and voters, but I am fully aware of the reality and the need to, above all, have a stable Parliament, local parliaments, and therefore the law is what it is, it is a proportionate electoral system. I hope in five or ten years and we adopt the standards of the majority electoral system. I want to support what you said. It's important to say it again, I've repeated it several times, and I'm glad you said it too. The Republic of Serbia has a system of local self-government that is fully, shoulder to shoulder, with systems of local self-government in developed European Western democracies, which we generally call upon when we want to criticise our local self-government system. Our system of local self-government is much above, say, the systems of France, Spain, and that's what they're telling us; it's not what we say, that's what people tell us when we go to the Council of Europe. Our system of local self-government has a flaw in this instability, which we will now overcome, and systemically, contentically, our system of local self-government has one flaw, it's an asset, which we have overcome by the provisions of a new constitution and law, which will be overcome by the law that prepares it. So thank you for saying the same thing. I want to say - Serbia is a state that has a good system of local self-government and should not be ashamed of what is good. You mentioned the European Charter of Local Self-Government. I will remind you that this House, that we have ratified this charter with ease. So 20 views were asked, we immediately gave 23 in our accompanying act. Indeed, we have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to the local self-government system in Serbia, compared to other countries. As for Kosovo and Metohija, tomorrow we will devote all day to the amendments. We talked to Mr Samardzic, and we'll talk again tomorrow. So, tomorrow, we're gonna spend all day with the amendments, and we're gonna talk about that. I can tell you right now, your 45-day amendment, or 30-to-45-day shift, as far as the government is concerned, will be accepted, as well as the amendment of some other parliamentary groups. You're absolutely right, the 30-day deadline is realistically short, but, on the other hand, I suggest you withdraw this amendment on certification, because it's supposed to be according to the general regulations on copying and signatures, which predict that community administrations are doing the authentication, but also courts, so as anyone wants, can choose. About the question of money, it's arranged by that regulation, so I'm afraid we shouldn't get involved. As for the natural threshold for Serbian parties, Assistant Minister Djokic and I discussed it, we had prepared a solution. We changed it a little, conditionally, because in the professional public it was somewhat disputed from the point of view of the Constitution. Finally, we decided to stick to what was provided for in the Constitution, in Article 180, although we wanted to break that provision in some way. Anyway, it's a very interesting question and we've been thinking a lot about it, but we have that 180. The constitution, which provides for this proportionate representation, which I must say is not a practice in any country except Croatia. So it doesn't exist in other countries at all. Some OSCE people have asked us, and why in Serbia, at local level, there is this proportionate representation. It's not anybody's request at all, because local self-government, asphalt and this has no national mark, but what to do, it's in the Constitution, and we've applied it from the Constitution. As for Mrs. Radete, your position was this congregation system contained in this bill. Tomorrow's the whole day ahead of us for the amendments. I'm glad there's this measure of consent over certain solutions. I hope we can talk about other solutions tomorrow and get to a higher level of consent. Anyway, thanks for the expert discussion. As for Mr. Rangelovic, in principle, I must say that somehow, we have different knowledge of these issues. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I just said what I think of Serbia as a decentralised state. I think we are a state that has a well-developed decentralisation and local self-government system. You think differently, I'm sorry, but in addition to what I'm saying is the European Charter. I'll say something I forgot to say in my first presentation. A permanent conference of cities and municipalities, as the only association of local self-government in Serbia, among other things, on jurisdiction, their expert team has concluded that extending competence at this time is not possible for municipalities of Serbia, as they are unable to absorb even existing competences. We have municipalities with 20,000, 30,000 inhabitants, who can't even carry out an existing level of jurisdiction. I said I didn't think that we should assume the right to make municipalities in Serbia now, it must be preceded by a referendum. As for the size of these municipalities, small municipalities – small responsibilities. When you mention Croatia, why didn't you say so, I spoke to a colleague from Croatia a few months ago, the man literally said that they had a huge problem, because they reduced municipalities, and now, according to the General Administrative Procedure Act, we came from the same way, so they changed a little later, they don't have an authorised face in many of these municipalities to run the administrative process. Most of them are lawyers here, who know it's a major injury, absolutely a major violation of the administrative procedure, if it's run by a person who's not authorized, and it can't be authorized if it's not competent. So, a small municipality - small responsibilities. There's no small municipality, there's no great jurisdiction. A large municipality - great competences. We have large municipalities, but our municipalities have a constitutionally guaranteed jurisdiction, which is also a rare case in European practice, that the Constitution guarantees jurisdiction. The European Charter says – it can possibly be established by the Constitution, but it is not in practice at all. That grade is different to us. My assessment is positive regarding local self-government in Serbia. As far as multi-level local self-government is concerned, I don't know what you mean. If you thought there were regions, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in a work called a territorial organisation, a territorial organisation has been established and it is absolutely unnecessary for us to discuss the law on local self-government, because the Constitution has clearly said which units are territorial organisations. These are autonomous provinces, at this point we have two, and these are municipalities and cities and the city of Belgrade. The region is not mentioned, so it's some topic we can talk about, but it's not a topic for tonight. Monotypic local self-government. Yes, I heard in our discussions, even a few months ago, say one colleague - why do you, some small municipality, and some small jurisdiction? I tell him, my dear friend, the level of jurisdiction is established by the Constitution. Our problem is that the Constitution has already set up a very high scale, and that scale implies that you have at least 20,000 inhabitants. Look at the municipalities below 20,000 inhabitants, difficult to deal with both health care and education. So she's monotypic. In that sense, we haven't made municipalities of different categories, but I think this effort with cities is significant, because we've singled them out realistically, not to be hostages of these small municipalities, so, if they're lucky, today, the day after tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, for a year or two, they'll be able to achieve new competencies because they have a higher capacity. As for the concession, a special law regulates the question of concessions, cannot be regulated by the law on local self-government. As for Pirot and some other cities, you see, Zaječar is the smallest city, the smallest municipality to get the status of the city, according to its geographical position. If we were to go now to those municipalities of 50,000 inhabitants, I would say, "I'm not going to waste this whole business." The point was, the initial idea was that it was, however, those who had power, had capacity, had close to 100,000, more or less, inhabitants. I understand the wish of our colleagues that just some place they're bound to get the status of the city, but then we can give all the municipalities the status of the city, and we haven't done anything, so I'd ask you to understand the intensity that only those who can really keep that status of the city. It is, in a way, a small cut, with respect to everything you've said so far and with conviction, my personal belief that tomorrow, in the debate on amendments, we will solve some of the things mentioned by the three previous speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15222	I thank Mr Milan Markovic, the minister of government and local self-government in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The word is held by MP Branislav Nedimovic, authorised representative of the DSS - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15223	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, I think that in previous statements we have heard a lot about concrete solutions provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections, as well as these other two laws governing matter regarding the position of local units. I would like to say a few things from the corner of the parliamentary group to which I belong, DSS - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, about the work of local self-government and, in general, about the importance of the topic that lies before us today. I think that even in the previous few cases, when the local elections law and the local self-government law were passed, there were a lot of storms over their adoption. Today I see a high level of responsibility for a large number of MPs, who are aware of the position and importance of units of local self-government, which are also important in the system of functioning of the entire state government. I think we had a lot of problems in the previous period, in general, in everything that was about the state and other important issues that were on the agenda for the past 10-15 years, so we kind of put a end to local self-government, that is, we wanted to sort out the position of local self-government units in a different way. Finally, from these previous exhibitions, I see that we have unity and that we are aware of the importance of strong local self-government, how important the unit of local self-government is as a pillar of the existence of a strong Serbian state. I'd like to say a few things. What can local self-government do today, and what is foreseen by the law on local self-government regarding their jurisdiction? This is listed in the law on local self-government, through some 39 competences that provide for different areas of social life, starting with infrastructure, culture, sports, urban development and everything else. But the job of local self-government has a different vision, and that's the most significant one, which is to move, to make the lives of citizens living in these units of local self-government, to bring them new jobs, to help all citizens of a local self-government. It's the most important job. It's a job that stands before all of us, it's a basic job and these local self-governments that are now functioning, and those local self-governments that will be elected in a few months. All these powers should be put into one function, which is to make the lives of citizens even better and to bring local self-government closer to citizens, all those functions and responsibilities put before local self-government. Because it frees all if local self-government is not at the service of citizens, if citizens find it difficult to exercise their rights provided for by the Constitution and laws, we are free of all that we have done. I think the unity we showed in today's debate can give us hope of the stability of local self-government, which hopefully will be even more pronounced in the coming period. We tried to do it in the past. We will do even more because it is the obligation of all of us, both those chosen as representatives of local authorities and us, MPs, because, in the end, we are passing these laws, among other things, and this set of laws regarding local self-government. It's very important that one thing is clear to all of us. We must have responsible local politicians. We must have stability, that we do not have conflicts between different authorities of local self-government, as in individual cases there have been. A previous law on local self-government has taken one step in decentralisation. This law goes one more step further, because we want strong units of local self-government. It is therefore very important that in a few months we have a trust check for all political parties in the local elections, because citizens will give their own court on whether or not someone has worked well. At the end of the line, local elections should be about whether citizens in one local self-government are better, whether they're better on the streets, whether they're better at schools, whether they're better at kindergartens, whether they're better at municipal infrastructure, whether they have enough work, enough jobs for all those who want to work. That's what we need to do in the next period, and that's the job standing in front of all of us. As for decentralisation itself, a lot went that way. A moment ago, the minister also spoke about the European Charter. We went one more step further, first of all, for the reason we want strong local self-government. I hope they get stronger and stronger every day. I wouldn't be too long, but I'd like to point out one more thing. It is, above all, related to the adoption of a law on the property of local self-government. If we can pass a law on the property of local self-government in 2008, I hope that there is a clear will of all parliamentary groups to go in that direction and fulfill our constitutional obligation, as we do now, respecting the Constitution and the constitutional law, by passing a set of these laws, I think it will be a strong momentum for local self-governments regarding their economic development, because that is what Serbia needs, that is what every local self-government needs. If we solve local self-government urbanally, if we run a successful building land policy and if we have the property of the local self-government that we are responsible for, where each individual has to be responsible for acting and behind the decision of the majority in SO, whatever it is relative, whether it's absolute, provided by the law on the property of local self-government, it's going to be a significant incentive for both domestic and foreign investments, and that's what we need. I would look back on just one more aspect of this issue, which is the law on territorial organisation, which has brought us 19 new cities, 19 new centres, which will be strengthened through special laws, which will be passed in the National Assembly. These should be centres within which entire areas will develop. We need to take care of balanced regional development, in general, regional development, and I hope that through this concept of the existence of cities we will manage to respond to this extremely important task, that these cities will successfully meet the obligations that are being put before them. I would ask you, representatives on the right and on the left of this pay phone, that, as the DSS, the NS, or our list bearing the name of the president of this government, who is warmly behind this law, we all stand behind them to get a strong and modern self-government, which will serve the citizens, which will satisfy all their needs. I urge you once again to vote on this bill in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15224	I thank MP Branislav Nedimovic. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15225	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to say a few sentences about the current that preceded the adoption of the law. Namely, when the previous law on local self-government was passed, this was preceded by a public debate, which lasted a year, and the working group that worked on the law has visited more and more municipalities in Serbia, while this text of the bill, unfortunately, many MPs saw for the first time this morning, that I am not talking about the professional public, they will say their opinion only after the adoption of this law. The problem is that the work group that prepared the text of this law certainly did not participate in any person who knows specificities in the functioning of local self-government in the national mixed environments. I think it's a huge lack of this legal project. Mr. Secretary and I had, at the end of June, a meeting when he promised to include us in the law-making work. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, so on December 23rd, we first received these bill proposals. I just want to talk about the law on local self-government, because unfortunately, very little time. Generally assessing this proposal for a law on local self-government, I do not think it represents progress in relation to the current law. In some parts, it's a big step backwards. There are two kinds of reasons why neither this law, as it is, nor the existing constitutional framework, are good. Unfortunately, the Constitution, in addition to good solutions, has a large number of bad solutions. Parts related to local self-government, especially those related to the organisation of local government, are not, in our assessment, good. There are, on the other hand, political reasons why this bill is the way it is. This text of the law, unfortunately, looks like one member was written by one party, another member - by the other party, and the third member - by the third party and then from the beginning. I think it's a big problem that this proposal isn't written on the basis of a clear concept, a unique concept. Now let me say a few words about the bill. On the one hand, I believe that the provisions concerning the establishment of units of local self-government remain a centralist approach. Unfortunately, there was no will to make a true step. Citizens, through referendums, in the process of education and the abolition of municipalities, have the right to give their own advice, and that advice will later be followed or not. A good solution is in the law, and by doing so, the DS has fulfilled our promise, which is what the draft law provides for the possibility of setting up television and radio stations that report in the languages of national minorities and that the founders of these cells can be local self-government. I think this is the solution, part of it, the success of the SVM, part of it, the fulfillment of one promise. It is not good, or it is not the happiest formula in the law, because it represents the possibility of abuse, because it does not contain a restriction in terms of determining minimum minutes in the languages of national minorities. I think you will eventually have to realize, however, that it is necessary to amend the Law on Broadcasting, so that any abuses in practice can be avoided. It is also good that the city's status is restored to large municipalities and it is good that the government did not fall into the trap, which did not go, populistly, towards granting the city's status to municipalities that do not belong to their characteristics in cities. Otherwise, many surrounding countries have fallen into that trap. It's lucky we avoided it. The weakest part of the law is the one that regulates the organisation of the executive government at the local level. Simply, in this part of the law, they are due to party interests, mixed both grandmothers and frogs. Namely, a system is mixed in which, on the one hand, the executive authority makes or executes an in-house body, with a system in which the rule is exercised by the collegiate body. It just can't. Secondly, I don't know where there's a system like this in the world. We believe that the best system would be the one where the mayors, the presidents of the municipalities, are elected directly by the citizens and have the opportunity to appoint their assistants on their own. When the draft law on local self-government, in 2002, was in the assembly procedure, the proposal went that way. Unfortunately, a single amendment was introduced to the municipal council and is now, in practice, returning to that previous, former system, when there were executive committees. I don't think that's good. Of course, there were many problems in the functioning of local self-government. We are aware of that, but, in our opinion, it was not necessary to change this section regarding executive power, but rather to change the system, the electoral system for the election of councilors. In fact, if there were a majority system for election of councilors and a direct choice of mayors, then a potential number of cases in which the assembly and mayor come into conflict would fall to a minimum, as is the case in many countries. There are, I want to tell you, in the field of local self-government and public administration, and in this area, ISO standards and that is one of the criteria for the performance of local self-government in the EU. Our local self-government will find it difficult to obtain a certificate, but not because of its guilt, but because of the legislator's guilt, because this law introduces one, unfortunately, completely inefficient decision-making system. Why so many councilmen, and that's one question, up to 75 in municipalities, and 90 in cities? I want to tell you that Budapest, a city with two million inhabitants, has 66 councilmen. I think that's a much more realistic solution. The problem is that there are legal options to choose, appoint, or appoint a few hundred people, means 100 officials in one municipality with 10,000 inhabitants. One percent of the population of a municipality can be, theoretically, a municipal official under this law. I think it's very bad and it's not in line with this country's economic capabilities. It is a good solution that for the first time in the law there are provisions that allow local self-governments to educate joint bodies, to establish joint ventures and institutions. I think it's a real step. In 2002 there was no will, now there is. I think that's very good. On the other hand, it is not good that there is a completely ethical approach in the area of surveillance by the central authorities. We can't agree on that. EU countries are going in a different direction, and unfortunately we are not going in that direction yet. That's what I'm going to talk about, by the way, in the amendment debate. SVM MPs had two choices, on the one hand, to propose a large number of amendments and try to drastically amend the proposed text. We know it's not real, we didn't even want to do it. We are also aware of the deadline within which the laws must be adopted, so we have chosen the second time and we have submitted only those amendments that do not change the whole concept of the law, but they mean improving the text. I also have to say that we had really constructive consultations with the minister and his assistant yesterday. The minister has accepted a good portion of our most important amendments. That's good. I hope that in the end our most important amendments will come into the text of the law, and then we will be ready to support these laws. In the discussion of details, we will also talk about all other shortcomings of this law, which we have not submitted to amendments, which we consider to be not good solutions, but simply because of the lack of time, we did not want to obstruct the work, or adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15226	I thank the People's MP, Laszl Varga. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. (Not here) I would like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, application for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SPS, G 17 Plus, LDP, Manjine, DSS-NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica and Vojvodina MPs. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15227	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the Roma Party is that this set of laws, in any case, should be adopted. It's a good thing he makes an important step towards minority participation in local self-government. However, we cannot break the impression that the law in general does not follow the same idea. There are a few weak moments. When I talk about the law on elections, we too have tried our amendments, I, as a national MP, to contribute to the spirit of law and basic idea – that minorities participate in the work of the congregation of the municipality, be consistently implemented. When I say that, I mean, primarily, the next thing. The law says that minorities can participate, then define the so-called. The natural threshold, however, defines that all lists must have 1/3 of the planned number of council members and then you have municipalities that have more than 20,000 inhabitants, so they need much more signatures than votes to enter the municipality, where they have their own committee. We have proposed certain amendments here, and we will discuss that when we discuss the details. Then, the serious problem is that in the same plane, when it comes to the number of votes, you put large political parties and minority lists, so that if it is the last place, or when you compare a ratio that is the same for minorities and for the political parties of the majority, you give priority to the number of votes. Here we also suggested that these factors should not be compared in this way, but that, when the last place in the Assembly is at stake, priority be given to minorities. A large number of political parties in parliament have shown the will to help minorities, for example, in the past term, have given the SRS, as far as I know, the post of Vice-President of the Assembly to a minority representative. In this term, the DSS, by the way of the Rules of Procedure, has given me the opportunity, as an independent MP, to participate in the Committee's work. I think it would be on the trail of the expressed will of political parties, that, if that's the last place, it is, however, that minorities, who, realistically, cannot have more voters than these others. That's why we're doing the whole system. Next, when it comes to competences in local self-government authorities, we do not consistently implement a constitutional provision that allows local self-governments to encourage groups of citizens, who are in a fundamentally different position than other citizens, to improve their position. However, the legislator speaks in one place about people with special needs, but citizens with special needs are much narrower categories compared to that category as defined by the Constitution. It's not far from my mind that, say, one municipality provides for all its children free tickets. Children are a special category compared to everyone else, so why don't we provide our children with free transportation to high school, a book, if it's a state-of-the-art municipality, or why don't we give them some help from Roma national communities, who really live in social misery. The next thing we think is that it's not well worked out, it's a question of whether the city of Belgrade is responsible in the same way for the development of all parts of the city or the city of Belgrade just needs to make Knez Mikhail Street better, to arrange only a circle of two, or is it a responsibility for others? We have suggested that the authorities of local self-government, namely that the city of Belgrade must develop all its parts evenly. It is inadmissible that there is no water under the Gazela, and that we are in the centre of the city gilding taps, as proof that we have entered Europe and that we are already a European state. So we have to show a little more responsibility. As we ask for responsibility to its rural parts in Serbia, so in the city of Belgrade, because nearly two million is a large part of Serbia, we must show responsibility for the peripheral parts of the city. We need to develop them evenly and we need to break some stereotypes there. If the president allows me, just one more minute, so I don't answer the Rules of Procedure. At the request of the citizens of Kostolac, we suggested that the Kostolac be defined as a municipality. We have a memo in which all the political parties of Kostolac supported it. There's nothing in the law, I'm saying that the Bone is not intended as a municipality. Next thing. The minister isn't here, but I have to ask him, that's why I won't pick up later. A call to parliament again came to all parliamentary groups from some secretariat for the Roma national strategy. I argue that the secretariat for the Roma national strategy does not exist, that the secretariats form the government, the head of the secretariat must be the director appointed by the government, and it is a humiliation for the Serbian Parliament to declare someone as a secretariat. This is a crime I've been warning you about for several months. I asked a parliamentary question. For three or four months, no one's answered my question from the government. Now I ask you to pass on to the Minister the following, to examine the criminal responsibility of the people who represent themselves as the secretariat for the Roma national strategy. Otherwise, we'll have to file criminal charges against the minister, because he can't claim he doesn't know what we're not telling him about today. I'll give you this document on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15228	The word of the messenger of the people is Riza Halimi; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15229	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with the speaker that this proposal for a law on local self-government has not gone further in the direction of decentralisation, compared to the previous, especially if it is taken into account that Serbia has only two levels, local and central. There's no regional. I think in that case local self-government can compensate for the lack of that inter-degree, not to say, third degree. In this respect, there are a lot of specific things that need to be solved in local self-government if it's incapacitated at the central level. We have in practice many cases that the central government, i.e. the ministries, cannot successfully deal with problems in the field. Of course, it's been a little while to do something more serious about the amendments, but I'm going to try to make a contribution in this regard. I did something, but not the way it could have been in one normal time to prepare. I would now, of these specific things, mention the problem of local police. In the '90s, there was a variant that certain competences were passed on to municipalities when it came to local police. At the last moment, the legislator changed his mind and did not go with the solution. Given the environment, not only on Kosovo and Ahtisaari's document, but take Macedonia, if you prefer, because they have already found that during the election of local police leaders to give consent, even the Macedonians decided that these SO executives should be named on the basis of the three proposals made by the ministry, it was their turn to go with some opinion and attitude of local self-government, because both local police and local police managers must gain confidence in local authorities and that local population, if we want effective work. You could think about it, because there's such a practice all around. Next, I worked long in high school, I was the director for a while, according to the 1974 Constitution, then high school was the competence of municipalities, and to know that it was a very successful practice. I don't see why, and in this bill, it doesn't say that high schools go back to municipalities, because they're the closest and the most efficient and best to manage, better than the Ministry, from one center, manages all high schools. There's that excuse and justification that elementary schools have in every municipality, and secondary schools aren't in each. I'd say that, in most cases, there are high schools in high schools, rare are municipalities that don't have high school. After all, on any territory that is high school, the biggest concern is the municipality. It would be a turn to take a step further in this regard. Further, use of language and letters by national minorities. We have been predicting it both in the Constitution and in the law for a long time, but we do not worry whether it is actually being implemented and how much it is being implemented. I'd like to remind you of that famous, so discreet, especially in Kosovo, bilingualism. At that time, however, there were better solutions, because they were determined and the means to apply and implement, let's say, then bilingualism, trilingualism, or maybe there are more of these situations. It is not possible to speak of a valid application of the provision and, in general, the right of minorities to use the language and the letter officially unless we have parallelly provided for and financed that activity. Now what? The municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac or Medvedja, or Senta, Kanjiž and other municipalities, must make all documents in two languages, many of these operations to perform in two languages. Let's also move on to state authorities. If there is a double job, if the volume of work is larger, if we want it to be properly done, professionally, it must be paid, and funding must be provided. Here's what we're allowing: Cobajagi, we're providing security, and in practice it's not being implemented. Finally, I would move on to a more sensitive problem, which should also be considered in the framework of the co-operation that is envisaged. So far, this is the solution – that municipalities can co-operate with municipalities in other countries. That's a good thing. However, it must move on, that municipalities have the right to co-operate, and here we are talking about municipalities where minorities live in a significant number, both with organisations and institutions of the home state. Because, like it or not, we have to admit that, especially in education, culture, there are a lot of areas that the ministries currently cannot implement in work, and when it comes to programs, textbooks, higher education. Currently, the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, Albanians from this area, has not solved the problem. Practice must be legalized. If there is a practice for Albanians to practice higher education through education in Albania, including Kosovo, then it must be formulated by a certain law, to give legal form. Of course, it should be seen that other specific things are being solved this way. Furthermore, I'd like to say something about the part where you pointed out whether it takes a minimum, not when it comes to national minorities, but when it comes to municipalities, minorities in the municipality. The most practical solution is to resolve the issue of this natural threshold through a formulation – a minority in the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15230	I thank the People's MP, Riza Halimi. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Marton, and let the People's Parliament be prepared, Mrs Vesna Pesic. Here you go, Mr. Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15231	Mr President-in-Office, the respected presidency, the honourable MPs, are now on the agenda of the draft laws that will allow for the signing of the province and local elections. By adopting these legal proposals, Republika Srpska Assembly President Oliver Dulic will be able to comply with constitutional law provisions and call local elections. They'll do it, of course, with the province. We in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina find it more logical that this right has the first man of the District Parliament. As is known, it is the right for the holder of functions in the highest legislative body of the AP Vojvodina to be taken away by the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, as you know, was brought in 14-15 months ago. I would like to refer the critic to the presidents of the ruling coalition, who, with their disagreements and multiple blackmails, have made these laws discussed before the end of the deadline prescribed by the Constitutional Law. These are very important laws, which will lay the groundwork for local self-government. The previous Law on Local Self-Government has set a number of obstacles to the idea of local self-government itself and has not allowed the full exercise of local environment rights to specificities. A number of unfortunate solutions related to the organisation of local self-government have led to earthquakes many local environments could not overcome. For several years, I myself was one of the leaders of local self-government in Zrenjanin, and I myself experienced the bad side of the current law. Zrenjanin felt what it meant to be in the impassionation of the Minister for Local Self-Government, or, in Zrenjanin, we like to say, "Ungovernment," which, arbitraryly interpreting the provisions of the law, was largely in violation of it, did everything to introduce temporary measures into SO Zrenjanin. Of course, it's about Prime Minister Zoran Lonchar. Except that the law was violated when the Assembly was disbanded, the Constitution was drastically violated, when a temporary body was formed, when the state of political relations in the local parliament and national representation in the municipality of Zrenjanin was not respected. I would remind you that before the disbanding of SO Zrenjanin, the ruling coalition of DS, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, the Movement of Serbia, G17 plus and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, and the DSS, of course, was through the minister and, more importantly, the President of the Regional Committee of the DSS, Zoran Loncara, did everything to make the first crisis in Zrenjanin and therefore, along with the instruments that Minister Lončar had in law, although he was very much violating, to impose temporary measures in a city that has 140 thousand inhabitants. A place in the so-called The interim body received 8% of the vote, the DSS, New Serbia and the SP, and one of them -- New Serbia, won 92 votes in the 2004 elections, or 0.22%. It is a shame that Zrenjanin has been living under temporary measures for 14 months, and this condition will last for at least six months. There are a lot of examples like this in Serbia. We heard 11 or 12 if I'm not mistaken. It is something that obligates Serbia's highest legislative body to create circumstances to prevent the emergence of ministerial self-will, tutorship and disrespect of the Constitution and law. Social Democratic League MPs of Vojvodina believe that these legal proposals by the AP Vojvodina, as well as the AP Kosovo and Metohija, should be given wider authority to regulate these areas. Of course, people in the provinces know better how to overcome the problems that arise at the level of local self-government. For these reasons, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has tabled 20 amendments to these legislative proposals. Realistically, we'd take more than that. We still need to consult with both the Minister and members of the Assembly committees tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and we expect that one part, and hopefully all amendments, as they are very common sense, will be accepted. If accepted, the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15232	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Marton. The word has a folk letter, Vesna Pesic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Mr Jovan Nesovic. Here you go, Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15233	I have already indicated some of the remarks I had, which is that no concept of Serbia's territorial organisation was given. So it's municipalities, cities. The only change is we got 19 new cities. Otherwise, from the concept of the region, anything that's been talked about before, there's nothing. It was seen to be done without thinking, without a concept that Serbia should be territorially organised. So other than those 19 cities, there's nothing out of it, and they're probably the basic faults of listing those many places. There aren't any changes, there aren't any new municipalities. I'm surprised there's not even the Kostolac municipality, which has been fighting for 30 years to become a municipality. She just doesn't make it. It's clear here that it was done in a hurry, Mr. Minister himself said it wasn't thoroughly done, and I see that it will be on the agenda. I wanted to ask the self-government question. It's very interesting that we call this the local self-government law. From the whole idea of decentralisation, you can't even see fiscal decentralisation, you can't see decentralisation function, so I have to draw attention to something that some have already pointed out. Why do cities that are formed and the city of Belgrade have the same functions as municipalities? So, I'm interested, since I've been doing a lot of these questions, why can't it be decentralised, whether cities and Belgrade as a city, which will have the same functions under the Constitution, those who have obtained the status of cities, have exactly identical functions? In other words, you leave primary education, or basic health insurance, and for these other levels you can't see where it belongs. Then why are there these levels, the Republic, the capital, the city, the municipality, if that level of jurisdiction isn't somehow consistent? Everything he writes about the community applies to the capital. When you look at the authorities of the capital now, you only have the river stuff, and you don't have the other stuff, but it's the same thing in the municipalities. You said yourself that then there are these municipalities, and in these municipalities there's still none of it. Now I ask the question – what will happen to these cities that have already become cities, or that will become cities, and they have municipalities that have some larger municipalities, and there are only municipalities on paper? What will it look like in the elections themselves, how will elections be called in these municipalities, where, practically, these municipalities only exist on paper? So the whole idea of decentralisation, either in terms of jurisdiction, or in terms of fiscal decentralisation, is not processed at all, nor is there any concept, at all, made. This is very important to me to say. When we talk about local self-government, why do you say self-government? Because if you look at the UN and when we're talking about democracy in general, it's about the participation of citizens. The whole idea of local self-government and decentralisation is that citizens participate in that electoral system as well. Now I'm interested alive, on what basis are you the member of 102. The constitution, which speaks of the parties having the mandates of MPs, so Alexander Molnar, very famous of our scientists, said that by giving the mandates to the parties, you took away the sovereignty of the citizens, applied to the committees? I mean, you were talking about stabilising municipal congregations and management, but you found the same way the Constitution did. I heard Mr. Prophetic answer to "Poligraph" once, and I don't think I call him for it, to ask the question – how is it now that these mandates of MPs are being transferred, practically, to parties, and then we're talking about that partocracy and too much power of the party? He simply responded – when Serbia is like Germany. Since we don't have democracy like in Germany, then we'll give it to the parties. You have transferred the same system of partocracies to municipalities and have decided that now the party president is not only making lists for Parliament. Now, nicely enough, he's going to sit down at the top of the game and make lists at local levels, so you listed it as some kind of decentralisation. God forbid, he'll be making those lists, and then a councilman who won't listen to him throw out and ask for his council mandate. It's a major blow to democracy in Serbia, I'm talking extremely serious. What does that look like? The participation of citizens in the UN – means that local government is shown to be responsible for citizens, how much it suits needs and how much participation it is. I'll show you that these participations are gone at all. If you look at Article 17, as quickly as I could see, in the jurisdiction of the municipalities, since these powers are the same, and if the Constitution prescribes certain responsibilities that the municipalities, the authorities, in fact, are regulated by the authorities, there are no citizens. That's one minimum, but you're abolishing the freedom of the citizens. I can assume that I live in Pancheva and that that's where the citizens want to build from their couples hospitals, and as far as you're concerned. It's this decentralisation. You've heard how in America people negotiate in a place that has 30,000 inhabitants, 40,000 inhabitants. You can't defend citizens what they're gonna have, whether they're gonna have health care, college. Every village in America has a college. He has to perform these functions, but you can't ban him from having certain functions. When you look at the role of citizens, they're nowhere to be found. When you look at municipal responsibilities, say, it brings a development programme, then a budget, and where are the citizens who are supposed to say what are the priorities in their municipalities? There is no consultation with the citizens, absolutely nowhere to be shown how citizens are participating in the government. You could have said -- local administrations, they don't have to call themselves self-government at all. There's no need. And Prudon, a French philosopher, has established self-government where citizens are participating, deciding on their lives. I have to tell you, as a citizen, you've been in my Palilu community, really, I have no intention, Milan, nothing to attack you, but, believe me, the singers and the like are harassing us, we don't sleep at night, we can't do anything. Now you're talking about local self-government. Who keeps it in Belgrade? Citizens don't sleep at night, cafes open, no one's ever been asked. Sometimes the local communities had to ask themselves, everything was asked. Do you believe Berlin can't build a new airport, and I'd like it to have a new airport, because now it's become the capital again, because some local communities don't give it to him, because there's someone out there wondering, and you're opening things up for us wherever you want. You know how that happens? She tells me like this-- listen, you got kids, it's some mobster, don't get involved, you're gonna be short on your head if you say that mobster over there shuts down that bar nobody lives on can't sleep from. So, don't talk about self-government, absolutely, there's no self-government. When you say, "Citizen's initiative," in that unfortunate article 17, "citizens' choirs," it doesn't exist at all, it's nowhere to be found. Then it is said - the municipality responds, 60 days it needs to be answered if the citizens agree on something. What's he doing for 60 days? He's got three days to answer. It's simply a dictatorship in municipalities, not a participation of citizens. That basic democracy, where the entire building of democracy must be based, is based on the locale and then goes up, the city, autonomy, then the Republic. These are essential remarks. Let me tell you, it doesn't make sense. Don't answer me anything. Just to hear the citizens hear that they will be protected, that they will participate, decide on their life problems. That's not gonna happen. Why did you cancel the mayor's direct choice? Why isn't the mayor elected in Belgrade? Some president of the municipality's assembly, and some mayor, who now, with his assistant, represents part of the government, are cardinal changes. That's why we have to sit, so to speak, before New Year's Eve. The only thing that was good was a direct choice, not just in Belgrade, but everywhere. If it's already divided by parties and if it's supposed to be the same as they're doing here right now, they're dividing every public firm by parties, all by odds and percentages, they're doing the same thing in cities, and they're doing it in municipalities, they're decentralisation for free when it's much worse there, because we know something here, they're getting some kind of newspaper, and in municipalities such a division of the government is made to share everything. I know, let's just say that in 13 months of government, the SRS hired 950 people. That's what they're doing. It's the same in all the cities I've seen. As the president of the municipality or this other government comes, they hire their own people, and then we all know that, it's not something weird. That's how you do it. So you really had to figure this out, the citizens here don't have any participation, no role, no democracy whatsoever. This, in my opinion, is up. This is where we were supposed to get that quality, but since Serbia is going downhill when it comes to democracy, as I said at the beginning, that we are doing this before the New Year, when, practically, we cannot seriously discuss laws, I think we should declare that Serbia is no longer a democratic country, because, even at that local level, there is no citizen who can decide anything in the municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15234	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15235	I just have to say a few sentences about what Mrs. Pesic was saying. I don't think we have the same information, or we have different views of the local self-government system, or maybe we have different knowledge of comparative experiences. So, France as an example is out of the question. Mrs. Pesic, don't mention France. You mentioned Prudon and the development of local self-government in France. Secondly, I can't quite understand it – participation, participation, participation, democracy, democracy, participation, democracy, democracy, democracy, democracy, democracy, participation. These are a little more specific things. Citizens go to the polls and choose their representatives and that is how public affairs is done. When certain general acts are adopted, there's no way to check it out, to go from apartment to apartment, or I don't know what third. Many local self-governments have one nice practice, there is also Belgrade, to put on public debate documents, etc., but you cannot legally standardize these things, especially by law on local self-government, but by the Budget System Act. So the law on local self-government is not about how the budget is adopted. You mentioned high school education and mentioned primary health care. It has nothing to do with the local self-government law. I really don't know how to explain it. The law on local self-government is a system law. It contains a list of 39 responsibilities, which I will read, because I can no longer listen to the story of the decentralization that has not been carried out with us. I keep telling you, the level of jobs carried out by municipalities in Serbia is one of the highest in Europe. So one of the highest levels in Europe is the level of work performed by municipalities in Serbia. I've only heard from individuals from the Standing Conference of Cities and Municipalities, who are agro-engineers and economists in education, to talk about local self-government. It's like football. I haven't seen a subject more people know about without having any professional relationships with local self-government. You're saying the only good thing was the direct choice of the president of the municipality. I am telling you, as minister and former president of the municipality, that one of the worst things from the 2002 law was the direct selection of the president of the municipality, and that all faults, I read to you today, which has been established by the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities in its 2004 recommendation, all the negative parties, have shown themselves on the case of Serbia. I'm not saying that maybe in some Finland it wouldn't be good, although they don't have a direct choice either, I'm not saying that in some Finland it wouldn't be good, but in Serbia, Mrs Pesic, it's not good. In Serbia, municipalities were elected to the municipality once in a lifetime before that, and perhaps never, and were given powers that involve broad knowledge, first of all, regulations, so that they would not think that the law on local self-government would regulate secondary education in local self-government units, because in 2002, among other things, the municipality was told that it had founding rights for schools, primary health care, so until it passed sectoral laws, it did not live. It doesn't matter. We can put anything in the law right now that anyone wants. By the way, I've talked to 50 community presidents, asked them to tell me what jurisdiction to put into the local self-government law, which they would like, to see with the restoring ministries that it goes through sectoral laws. I didn't get any answers. I now urge the presidents of the municipalities to come out here and say what should be introduced as the jurisdiction of the municipalities. I can't wait to see, through the amendments, what you formulated as the jurisdiction of the municipalities, what it should stand for. I'm going to read now, because the public will think that Serbia is some country out of what century I don't know either. "The municipality brings development programmes, urban plans, brings budgets and final accounts; it determines the rates of the original revenues of the municipality, as well as the way and criteria for determining the levels of local taxes and fees; it arranges and provides for the operation and development of municipal activities (cleaning and distribution of water, cleaning and disposal of atmospheric and waste water, production and supply of steam and hot water, linear, urban and suburban transport of passengers in social traffic, maintenance of cleanliness in cities and settlements, maintenance of landfills, setting up, maintenance and use of water markets, parks, green, recreation and other public areas, public parking, public consultation for the maintenance of cemeteries, burial and other); old buildings and the use of residential buildings, parks, parks, parks, parks, parks, parks and housing in the residential areas of land, etc., the housing of the housing of the property and housing of the property in the property in the property, public park, public parks, public parks, public parks, public parks, public parks, public parks, public housing, public housing, public housing, public housing, public housing, public housing, public housing, storage, storage and housing, storage, storage, storage, storage of land, storage of land, storage and housing, etc. "I've only just reached point 11, and there are 39 points. It will take me half an hour to read what the municipalities are and tell me that Serbia is not decentralised and that municipalities have no jurisdiction, and I can't believe it. I have heard that some of the representatives of the Permanent Conferences of Cities and municipalities and some of the people in Parliament are. As for Kostolac and the Fireman, as a convinced Democrats, you must accept that no one by law can change the border of the municipality and that the local community Kostolac can become a municipality only if it is decided by the citizens of the municipality of Pogorec. No one in a democratic society can change the municipality's borders by decision of party leaders. It is democratic and cannot be a municipality until there is a referendum. When there's a referendum, the Bones will be a municipality. If Kostolac is a municipality, the Fireman will not be a city. Give us some reality, we can't talk like this. Fiscal decentralisation. Please tell us, specifically, what do you mean by fiscal decentralisation, in what sense? What's the matter with the Law on the financing of local self-government? I'd like you to tell all of us what's wrong with that law. What part of that law isn't right? Do you want me to tell you what the problem is? The problem is that in Serbia, for a year and a few days since the law was passed, only six municipalities have managed to organise the collection of taxes on absolute rights. Only six municipalities were able to do that. They were incapable of taking over, too. They weren't capable of it either. What else is needed and what is wrong with the law that has been assessed by the Council of Europe by a high assessment? I'd like to ask you to say that. You say - how does this mandate belong? In a proportionate electoral system, the mandate in Serbia must belong to the committee at this time. I agree intimately, theoretically, however you wish, that the majority electoral system is immaterial to local self-government. I agree theoretically, politically, in principle that mandates should belong to MPs. But, Mrs. Pesic, in Serbia it is difficult to do so, at this point in Serbia. We've been beaten by people in local self-government. Well, they fight, they fight LDP, they're not better, they're the same, people are fighting. There, in Ruma, fighting in local self-government, the whole of Serbia was watching and scolding, and you're better than the Democratic Party, yours certainly wouldn't fight. Do I need to tell you how many of your LDPs are willing to move to the local parliament on one side or the other? It is not possible in Serbia, at this point it is not possible, believe me, it is not possible. They fought in Grocko today, you have to understand. We can't do that in Serbia right now. It happens that by 5,000 euros someone changes the camp. It's not my fault, but it happens, for some favor to hire him, for a threat. Some have been threatened in some community, dear colleagues, you who are now throwing, you know what the problems are. None of us here are perfect when it comes to that. Don't think, there's no difference in the place much. Therefore, I am prepared, indeed, for every criticism, but, believe me, Mrs. Pesic, I mind this kind of criticism. You say - no, it can't, because it's what the public hears. I can't do it anymore. I've been listening for six months to one of the presidents of the municipality, who's an agricultural engineer, who claims there's no special choice in Europe. A genius man goes and says it's a big step back, that we're going back to the Middle Ages. You know, some things started to get a little messy. As for jurisdiction, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, probably, the organisation that has the most similar attitudes as you have, says in its analysis – the Working Group estimates, means, their expert working group, that at this point there is no reason to expand the jurisdiction of local self-government, but the minister and MPs who will support the laws think that there is. We are more democratic and liberal than the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, and we think we will extend the competence of the units of local self-government, and we will do so to these laws on local self-government and territorial organisation, but please, if you criticise, try to make this criticism related to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You mentioned regions. Mrs. Pesic, it doesn't exist in Serbia. So the Constitution doesn't predict regions. The region is not in Serbia. Therefore, I am sorry that we do not understand ourselves to this extent, and you can see that I have been hearing about participation, democracy for six months, and I am telling you responsibly – Serbia is a decentralised state and, compared to the Member States of the Council of Europe, we are taking a high place. In these departments of experts, the people of the Department of State and local self-government are probably among the most valued experts. As minister, I had the honour of giving us credit in Valencia, at the end of Serbia's presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, precisely for the state of local self-government in Serbia. Perhaps those in the Council of Europe don't know, but I have to repeat -- so I got a confession for what we did and for what it is, the state of local self-government in Serbia. It deserves applause, Serbia has received the recognition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15236	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Replica, MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15237	Mr. Minister, you really didn't understand me. I didn't think there were any regions here, I just said there was no concept of the territorial organisation of Serbia, that there was also talk about regions, and of course I know. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Since you guys love to talk, you'd best resign, then move on to these benches, and you'll talk a little longer. By the way, you've been saying for so long that we have to fall asleep from you here. Let me tell you, I never thought there were any regions, nor did I say that. I just said, when it comes to the territorial organisation of Serbia, that someone didn't think about it, that it was also about regions, etc., that you were just, and I said it very explicitly, introduced 19 cities, and nothing more when it comes to territorial organisation. Right? How can you answer me like I don't know there's no region? For Mr. Prudon, it was a 19th-century philosopher who was talking about self-management, so he... Well, what difference does it make? I didn't mention France. Everything a man says, you just twist and really make a "command" in this assembly. When it comes to jurisdiction, be careful, I said this – there is no difference in jurisdiction in different degrees. That's what I said. So, I said -- if you have a republic, a capital, a city, a municipality, that there is no difference, that the city of Belgrade has the same powers as the municipality. I also said that jurisdiction should be left free, that if anyone wants to, even though it is not prescribed for him, I don't know, to open a hospital in Pogorevec, that no one is defending him, what citizens want to build themselves. But I didn't say anything else about jurisdiction but that. You also called for us to be one of the dens, Serbia, that we can't go any other way, but the party has to have all the mandates, according to Constitution 102, which is nonsensus and MPs, because we usurped the sovereignty of citizens, and now you're going to edit there, because don't, by chance, be confused with that property when it's divided there. That's the main thing. When you listed Finland earlier, they have a bureaucratic municipality, with them no responsible politicians manage, but responsible citizens, because they don't need it. With us politicization is huge in the municipality, for the same reason as here, to grab public goods. That's why this excessive politicization. But when I said the right thing, you didn't have any objections, even though you were talking for 15 minutes. I said it was a very weak participation of citizens, and nothing else. Please don't answer me, please don't talk to me again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15238	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15239	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, we have today a package of four laws. These are the law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, the law on local self-government, the law on local elections and the law on the capital. It is our constitutional obligation under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, Article 3 paragraph 4, to adopt this set of laws by the end of this year. As for the law on the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, it defines the territorial organisation of our country, the concept of the territory of municipalities, the city, the city of Belgrade and their borders. This law also defines the way in which new units of local self-government are established, the merger or abolition of certain units of local self-government, as well as the change of existing territories belonging to local self-government. The municipality is defined by this law as the primary unit of local self-government, and the condition for the formation of municipalities is that some 10,000 inhabitants live in the territory. In Serbia today, there are many municipalities that have fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, however, it is said in this law that those municipalities that have so far had that status, which have less than 10,000 inhabitants, remain municipalities, and I think that legal fluid, which has been inherited, is very important. On the other hand, there are certain economic, geographical, or historical criteria, it is possible that municipalities can be formed in the coming period, even if there are below 10,000 inhabitants. So, the formation of new municipalities of this law is not limited, there is only a procedure that must be respected, which is incorporated into this law on territorial organisation, which speaks of how new municipalities are formed. Today is a debate on whether or not we need smaller or larger municipalities. What is liquid is that, indeed, municipalities that have fewer citizens have easier access to the authorities of local self-government. However, on the other hand, it is a very dangerous one trap, which is that such municipalities, which have fewer inhabitants, do not have the capacity to function, or do not have enough professional people who can organise jobs that are related to local self-government. There's another item that's very important. If you have a lot of small local self-government, or a lot of small municipalities, you also have large public consumption, which, on the one hand, limits the development of these smaller environments. The second thing that the Law on Territorial Organization defines is the status of cities. We've been told we're getting 19 new cities, so far we've had five, including the capital, Belgrade. These are former municipalities that have close to 100,000 inhabitants, a little more than 100,000 inhabitants or a little less. What is also said by this law is that other municipalities that have certain geographical, historical, cultural predisposition can become cities in the coming period. It seems to me that cities in the coming period, given that they are given certain higher powers, should be the bearers of the development of a particular area and that segment in our country that needs to ensure Serbia's regional development as evenly as possible. It seems to me that the state authorities must also help these newly formed and other cities, excluding the city of Belgrade, to really be the bearers of this regional development. It seems to me that this law is one thing well arranged. It is possible for cities to define by their statutes, their legal acts, whether they will have two or more municipalities. I come from the municipality of Kralje, which, under this law on territorial organisation, will become a city and there are indications that one part of our municipality, it is Usce, who once had a municipality, will define as a municipality. This is given by this law, that is, the status of the city of the King, gives the opportunity to establish one or more municipalities, which may also be the solution for the Kostolac, which we mentioned earlier. As far as the second law is concerned, it is the law on local self-government, which regulates the functioning, criteria for establishment, jurisdiction, authorities and other issues relevant to local self-government. As far as the criteria are concerned, that's what's been taken over from the territorial organization law. I only want to look at three things when it comes to the Law on Local Self-Government. One is the organs of local self-government. As far as local self-government authorities are concerned, there are three important authorities in local self-government, the municipality, the municipal council and the president of the municipality, and eventually the municipal administration. This law defines SO as the highest body in a local self-government. It's the committees, which are elected by direct and secret vote and I think that's what the minister said, are 75 committees, which is enough, especially when we've brought down the municipalities and with now some 80,000 residents, but the minister is right. Because of the experience of four years, as these local administrations have functioned, the problems of bringing their statutes into line with the new law, possible problems in functioning, or the conduct of elections in these local self-governments, I think it is a good solution to keep the current situation. This ensures that local elections can be maintained uninterrupted. On the other hand, it seems to me that this law is one thing well done, which is the establishment of a local parliament, i.e. a local assembly. It is a member of the 34th law, which says the assembly was established the moment the president was elected, the speaker of the assembly and the secretary of the assembly. These are the two individuals who organize the work of the congregation, and I don't think there will be any more of the problems we've had so far. One more thing is arranged, i.e. when the speaker of the assembly does not schedule the assembly, although it is required by the municipal council president, or by a number of council members, this article defines the appointment of the assembly and no one can obstruct the work of a local parliament anymore. On the other hand, as regards the executive bodies in the local parliament, they are the president of the municipality and the municipal council. The president of the municipality, under this law, is of the order of the committees, as well as his deputy, and the municipal council may make up experts in certain areas and may also be committees. When it comes to the controversy whether the old system or this system is better, frankly speaking, by analysing everything that has been going on in the last four years of applying the 2002 law, how many problems have been in relation to the assembly – the president of the municipality, how much it has affected the development of local self-government, how much it has affected a bad picture of local self-government, this seems to be a good solution. What is also very important is the moment when the president of the municipality loses the support of the majority in parliament, the moment has been replaced and there is no room in which some things that are not in accordance with the law can be brought in, so it is arranged that there is no interruption in the functioning of the government. On the other hand, if you cannot form a municipal council and elect the president of the municipality, the ministry can introduce temporary measures to ensure that time is not lost. The qualitative step in this law is what the minister is trying to explain, professionalising local administrations. Local administrations should be regarded as professional services of local self-government, which should carry out certain tasks that are in accordance with the Constitution and the law. They should help the executive government, especially the president of the municipality, because his responsibility, under these laws, is much greater than it has ever been. It seems to me that the selection of municipal administration chiefs is a competition, especially if, as the minister said, it is a special regulation or some other act, indeed an important issue for the professionalisation of local administration, because so far people have been brought to the party principle. This will enable all the problems that we have experienced in the functioning of local administrations, the relationship between local administrations, public institutions, the CAP, etc., perhaps to be corrected. It's a good thing, and it's passed from the old law, and that local self-government, or municipalities that have cities with over 50,000 inhabitants, can be organised as more administration, or as a single administration; it's a deal and vision of local leadership to see a better organisation of local administration. This, as well as the previous law, allows local self-governments to join in achieving common important development-related jobs, and this is expanding, so they can be local self-governments from other countries, respecting the law, foreign policy and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that this is a good example, especially in the area of municipal waste management of joint sanitary dumps, which are used in many municipalities, by forming joint ventures to manage these sanitary dumps. This in the next period can also be water supply and other jobs and areas that are important for the functioning of a local self-government, all in favour of the quality of life of citizens in these local self-governments. As for the Law on Local Elections, what is important for us from G17 plus, is our proposal to raise the censorship to 5%. This will allow local self-governments, i.e. municipalities and cities, that there are no small parties and coalitions that can, in some ways, cause political problems. Five percent will pass only the parties and coalitions that are well organised and which, indeed, can attract voters with their own programmes. It has also been defined that in municipalities that have more than 20,000 inhabitants, 30 signatures are available for each committee candidate. It's also a serious job. As for smaller municipalities, 200 for the whole list is enough, and I think it helps smaller municipalities, because in smaller municipalities, where there are under 20,000 inhabitants, this criterion remains – 30 signatures per committee, or 30 voters to support each committee candidate, so probably one, two or three lists could apply for local elections. The minister said it was a system, something that was agreed and has the support of the majority. It seems to me that this formulation that goes towards securing the mandate, that the owners of the political party's mandate, and that was indeed one of the serious sources of instability in local self-government, perhaps a solution to be discussed. Probably tomorrow, at the Committee on Local Self-Government, we'll try to find a similar or better solution or leave this solution behind. What is also significant is that something that has so far been done by local self-governments has stood by, which is a question of municipal managers and chief architects. It is possible for the mayors and presidents of municipalities, depending on size, to organise certain experts who are important, who will help, primarily, in the economic development of these municipalities, but limit the number, which is also very important. I just wanted to say a little bit more about the capital. The position of the capital is governed by the law on the capital. Because of all capacities, economic and professional, Belgrade should have broad powers and broad independence. This law has been partly given this, and likely other laws will give Belgrade even wider powers. What is also significant is not specified by the Constitution, but, trusting analogy, since the presidents of the municipalities and mayors in other cities are elected from the council, the Belgrade City Assembly will have 110 deputies. The mayor will be elected from the council. Also, the City Council will be elected by the same principle as those of other cities and municipalities. In Belgrade, it seems to me, and I don't think I was wrong, there is a possibility that there is a city manager and city architect. I think that's a good solution, because, however, Belgrade is a big city and these two experts can, with good co-ordination with the mayor, help develop Belgrade, although Belgrade seems to me, has a significant development now. Most importantly, the way of organisation of the city's administration, both the Belgrade city and other municipalities, is defined by the statutes, which will have to be passed very quickly under the law. In the end, it seems to me that this package of laws is important for the functioning of local self-government, something that we need to comply with under the constitutional law. As for G17 plus, they will support these laws in the voting day and I hope they will be adopted by a large majority in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15240	Thank you, Mr. Nesovic. The People's Messenger Vidoje Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15241	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of laws in today's session regarding local self-government. I must say, this set of laws has been debated by political factors just three months ago. However, the government sent us this set of laws, or a draft agenda, last night, and those who were more directed, members of committees or working groups, could see that work version of all these laws. But not all MPs were able to adequately elaborate these laws and participate actively, both in principle and in the submission of amendments. From all this, from the whole discussion, it can be concluded that there is one general political consensus that we respect this constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution, because the deadline, I think, is Saturday to 24 hours, when we need to adopt this set of laws. All political parties are heading in this direction to allow these laws to be passed, in order to allow local elections to be called. But there's something I have to point out here. We hear from some MPs criticise that we have worked poorly, but the fact is that we have had many points of the agenda on which we have lost a lot of time, and on such important issues we remain deprived for that time. I hope that these laws and amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups will be well seen, perhaps, and accepted. A number was also filed by the Socialist Party of Serbia. I hope that some of them will be considered in that number and accepted. The government was forced to withdraw one set of laws on the budget system, the income tax on citizens, corporate income tax, administrative fees, to put these laws on the agenda. I understand that in some way, but no one has the right, I don't want to mention them by the ministers to say that we haven't worked in this period. Here, you see, lately we've been working, even, nonstop. Tonight, I suppose, we'll be working till 10:00. Of course it's a necessity. When it comes to the first law - on territorial organisation, I would not particularly refrain. All predecessors mainly pointed out that the basic territorial form – the municipality. Then, we have cities, or cities, and we have the city of Belgrade and autonomous provinces. What I would particularly like to refer to when it comes to the law on territorial organisation, is that the earlier law did not regulate the issue of jurisdiction, or the regulation of how to mark settlements, streets and squares. Now it's entrusted to the government, and I think it's a question that's regulated by this law, in principle, well. I would especially like to point out that the names of some settlements have been changed here, that you have met the requirement to change the name of the municipality of Petrovac to Petrovac on Mlava. As a member of the Committee on Local Self-Government, there is also our MP from Petrovec to Mlava, which is exactly what I insisted. One of the issues that is regulated by this law is the establishment of new units of local self-government, their merger, abolition and change of territory of existing local self-government. The procedure has been scheduled. The initiative must be launched by the municipal assembly or 10% voter signatures, with the National Assembly calling a referendum, but it is said that the referendum is not binding. I think there should, in some ways, assess whether to go into this referendum activity if he's not binding. So, you have to make one joint and a good assessment, whether there's a reason and a basis for one such activity, so you don't lose the funds, so you don't lose the energy and, first of all, the time. As far as cities are concerned, I have to say that certain criteria have been made that regulate the question of city status. These are cities over 100,000 inhabitants, cities that have less than 100,000 inhabitants, but are different criteria. These are economic, geographical, cultural, etc. I must point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when establishing the development of municipalities, has one criterion, and as far as I can see, when this law was passed on to a territorial organisation, you had other criteria. I don't want to mention municipalities, I'm glad that certain municipalities, and there are 24 of them, including the city of Belgrade, have the status of the city, but some of them are classified in the category of underdeveloped municipalities, in marginal areas, and you've now placed them in the status of cities. I think you should start an initiative with the government to determine the criteria for the development of municipalities. I don't think the current criteria are realistic and that the current evaluation and schedule of municipalities per degree of development is wrong. This should be changed, above all, in order to allow certain municipalities to compete with the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia for certain benefits, and the benefits are, above all, interest. What is particularly highlighted here is regional development. We must not forget one thing, and that is, if you think that we are developing only cities, or environments that have the status of the city, you must also take care of municipalities that have fewer inhabitants and of the overall regional development of Serbia. When it comes to the law on local self-government, I especially want to refer to the authorities of the municipality, which are the municipalities, the president of the municipality, the municipal council and the municipal administration. Before we had a very different way of choosing the president of the municipality, it was a direct choice. Opinions are shared, the president's direct choice has its advantages, there must be weaknesses. Weekly opinions. There were also problems by the president of the municipality, in those local environments where the crisis occurred, but there were also problems arising from the assembly, so that responsibility should not only be transferred to the presidents of the municipalities, but there were certainly mutual responsibilities. As far as all of these organs are concerned, I would like to say that the government's intention in this proposal is to in some way enable municipalities to accept quality personnel. When it comes to the assembly, we have the president of the assembly and his deputy. When it comes to the president, we have his deputy. We have a secretary, secretary of the assembly and his deputy. We have the chief of staff and his deputy. I support that, but, on the other hand, we are limited by financial means. We brought the budget, and in Article 24 we said that the amount of funds to pay 12 salaries in 2008 was set at 10% per mass of funds paid in November 2007. The question arises, how will we receive these people after the elections, if there is no change in the position of the Ministry of Finance on the provision of space in financial means for wages and earnings, and when establishing local self-government, we will have the need, in terms of agreement, to receive a certain number of these people? What I want to say when it comes to municipalities is that, even though we had a duel here, no one wants to say that there has been a decentralisation of jurisdiction towards local self-government. I claim it is, but this decentralisation must also monitor decentralisation in terms of transfer of property to municipalities. She's not complete. I claim that financial decentralisation is not complete, is not adequate and has no real criteria. I don't want to go into the depths, that's what I was saying to the finance minister, and when it comes to VAT vomit, it was previously governed by a special law, it doesn't come back enough, some more, and some less. I don't want to say it's political, but I'd like to ask you to influence, because you're also a member of the government, in terms of financial decentralisation. Given the weather, I'd like to say I only have one objection. I don't want to diminish the importance of a lady in terms of their political engagement. I think in article 20 of the local election law, you said that 30 percent of the members of the fairer sex should participate in political life. I don't want to say that there are no more common sex in major cities, but there are such problems in the smaller environments. We've invested one amendment in this sense, yes, instead of 30 percent, it's 20 percent, which doesn't mean we're just going to hire that much, maybe 40 percent, if there's a chance. As for the census, there were divisions on round tables whether to go on four or five percent. I think it's five percent political reality, because we're going to get a more stable assembly, a number of political parties that can seriously bid. I support this Article 60, when it comes to the deadlines for calling the election from 120 to 180 days. We have submitted a number of amendments and I hope you will consider them and, at least, accept a certain portion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15242	The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, and then the National MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15243	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I commend the proposals of your laws, and I think you have explained them in one competent way, and that you have found the right way to co-operate with all MPs, so that these system laws are adopted here. We're all deeply interested in local self-government, in its status, in the lives of our municipalities. Believe me, in every contact with the citizens, we see that 90 percent of the state government is in the hands of local self-government, at least what can be seen with the eye, what children are being led by, in kindergarten or in school, that the state is more abstract than the municipal government. That's why these are laws that directly entangle our citizens. What is particularly important is that by forming urban continents, or cities, decentralisation is possible. Especially important is what you stressed, which is stability. I know you do, but let me put it this way for the public, from the eight municipalities of Braničsky County, there were dramatic crisis moments in six municipalities. The previous law made that possible. He couldn't solve the problem between the mayor, behind whom there were 13 functions, and, let's say, the assembly, which was on the opposite side. Not only that, we had requests for recall, referendum statements, and all that cost, not just money, but, first of all, energy that should be invested in another direction, in development. What is very important for us Firefighters and for the citizens of Braničevsky County, it is that according to the proposal of the Law on Territorial Organisation Povorec, the status of the city is obtained. It doesn't matter just because the Fireman is the gate of eastern Serbia. This is important because of this, what we have just heard from Mrs Vesna Pesic and Mr Srdjan Sajna, and about the people of Kostolac and their request to be a municipality, which will therefore, very easily, through the statute of the town of Požarec, Kostolac will have municipal status, as a city municipality within the town of Povorec. It's the most important solution, a solution that will eliminate all the tensions that have been created for decades. I remind you of the fact that the town of Kostolac itself is bigger than the collection of municipal centers, such as Malo Crnic, Frogs, Frogs and Doves. Simply, it was illogical that an energy centre, a centre that creates both money and electricity, could not provide its citizens with full service, and the role of local self-government is, exactly, the service of citizens. It is good that behind the idea of getting the city's status for Pogorec and the town's municipality for Kostolac are all responsible political parties. I think it would be very dangerous for us to part ways in such matters. Thank you to the MPs who will support this idea. What I still want to add, which is important for the residents of the district from which I originate, is the change of the title of Petrovac to Petrovac to Mlava. We know about those famous confusions between Gornji and Donji Milanovac. I once attended that people traveled 500 kilometers. It is dangerous to mix Petrovac at sea and Petrovac at Mlava, but not only because of that, but that is what the people call it and that is what this law calls it. So I call on the MPs to remain united and to appreciate the importance of this law. We've had bad experiences. We've done well. I think we'll have full support for these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15244	Mr. Matić, we have common ground to support the Municipality of Kostolac becoming a municipality. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15245	When we have such power and such ministers, it is no wonder we have this way in Serbia today. So, I have questions for the minister, so it's time for the minister to listen to those questions. But it's been a long time since we've been here. This is a country that functions like a train without a timetable. To remind you that on today, 11 years ago, Felipe Gonzales made that famous election theft report. Of course, there were these monumental protests, when the whole of Serbia was on its feet to say -- a lot of theft. Some of you forgot that. What is happening today in Serbia reminds an overwhelming reminder of the time when Felipe Gonzales brought his report, and on the basis of whom Lex specialis was later brought and on whom the situation, how-so, was consolidated at that time. Judges who participated in election thefts and whom I, as justice minister in the government of Zoran Djindjic... You're not interested in this? So, I tried to solve it, and I only had options and initiatives, and today they're judges. Some of them have been advented for declaring the principle of broad coalition capacity, which is called political prostitution in translation, which today is the main principle on Serbia's political scene, which we had the opportunity to see yesterday, by adopting a resolution that you decided that Serbia would definitely lose Kosovo and definitely turn its back on the EU. I call on the minister of justice, Mr Petrovic, who now has the legal authority to initiate proceedings for the resolution of these judges and those presidents. Instead, Mr. Petrovic makes secret meetings, which surprises me very much, with the Toplician region's reserves, one has been made minister of justice, avoiding inviting me to this meeting, and I have initiated it, because it is reportedly not to be politicized. Tomorrow, reservers were invited to attend a second meeting, with a minister who still respects both 1996 and 1997, with Rasim Ljajic, Dusan Petrovic again and a person who responds to the name Rakic, saying he is head of the cabinet of the president of the Republic. They didn't invite me to that meeting. They say it's not good and it doesn't have to be politicized. As if Dusan Petrovic and Mr. Rakic were members of the Honorable Sisters' Col, not members of one of the ruling political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15246	Please!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15247	What's offensive about that? I also have sympathy and respect for Mr Petrovic, but I don't like this behavior. At the same time, people headed by the strike board are being led by a haika, criminal charges, such as Dejan Milosevic, are being filed on a daily basis. But since it is on the agenda of the law on local self-government, for which management unions ask Mr. Markovic, I will return, Mr. Albianic, since there is no minister, when he enters the hall, to ask him these questions in my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15248	Don't, Mr. Batic, in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15249	I didn't want to, but I was forced. So, the question is for Minister Markovic, is he familiar with the fact that employees in municipal administrations strike? Does he know how to determine employees' salaries in municipal administrations? Does he know what they're paying? Does he know what other budget users' salaries are? Will, and when, regulations be passed that regulate the position of employees in municipal administrations? When they'll be brought, why didn't they bring it to us by now? Does he know that social cases are being made from workers in municipal administrations? Does he know that the collective contract hasn't been signed for more than two years, even though the proposal existed? Does he know that it is a kind of discrimination against municipal administration workers, while, at the same time, agency employees and various administrations have enormous salaries? Does he know that employees of municipal administrations receive 10, even 15 times lower salaries than employees of these agencies and administrations? There's still a lot of questions they're asking. So a hunger strike was launched for the union president in SO Loznica and in some other municipalities, and when these problems were presented to Minister Markovic, he said, in a conversation with members of the presidency of the Republic Committee of Unions, the whole of Serbia is strikein', and I'm not affected by it. It's time for Mr. Markovic to answer these questions. He escaped, as well as his time Djelic, when I asked him about his connections and partner relations with one of the heads of the tobacco mob, but he has to answer that. Finally, let me compliment you on something. To commend one man who remained consistent with those ideals from 1990, ideals from those 1990-1996 protests, this is Professor Dragoljub Micunovic, founder and first president of the DS. His gesture yesterday and his disapproval of that shameful resolution, Zoran Djindjic would be proud of yours. So, I would like to commend Professor Micunovic for staying consistent, because he does not want to participate in this trade, and today you have demonstrated this trade, not voting for the people's initiative, the initiative of more than 30,000 citizens to form a polling committee to investigate the functioning of the Delta company. It is, I suppose, your New Year's present to Miroslav Miskovic, it is his turn to return those gifts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15250	Thank you, Mr. Batic. To return to the agenda, the word is by MP Miletic Mihajlović, and then by MP Jaroslav Hrebik.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to add to what Mr Batic was saying, when it comes to the reservers, that the MP Zeljko Vasiljevic should have been invited, too, before he was on behalf of veterans and on behalf of the SPS club, too, in these talks and represented what is the issue of the reserve. So when it comes to these laws concerning local self-government, the SPS thinks they're on the agenda here. Indeed, I believe it is not the fault of Mr. Minister Milan Markovic, that he too was put in such a situation that he was unable to place those laws. It's about what relations are within the ruling coalition. It's about where there's a constant outsmart about how their government works, about trade, and about agreements concerning everything that's on the agenda, and it's very difficult today in Serbia. It's a question of Kosovo's status, it's a matter of power-sharing, it's a matter of choice, it's a question of who's going to surface as a stronger party, etc. Therefore, until the last moment, these laws did not come, although under constitutional law we should have passed these laws long ago. The adoption of this set of laws regarding local self-government is one ridiculous improvisation, I can say, thanks to the top of this government. I'm saying, it certainly didn't depend on the minister, although I have no reason to defend him or represent him. Improvisation is reflected in the fact that we, as the National Assembly and the People's MPs, did not have the opportunity to look properly and with sufficient time at the proposal of these laws, and then to come forward with quality amendments in order to improve these laws. On the other hand, that's improvisation and the fact that we're not fully involved in this debate. Next, the amendment has little to do with what is needed and what is the field of consideration in these laws, because it respects some agreement that was reached behind the scenes, outside this hall, to come to these laws, which will not be quality, as they should be, and which will have to be very soon, the practice will show that they are changing and supplementing. The Socialist Party of Serbia suggests that more than 30 days should go by from the time the elections were called. It's said to be between 30 days, not more than 60 days. There were words here. I think Mrs. Radeta pointed to that, too. I think the minister said he'd consider it, probably through some amendment it was proposed. Indeed, there is little time to carry out all the activities that are needed in 30 days, and these activities are not so simple. With that in mind, there's something I want to say about the signing order. Therefore, 30 signatures are required for each committee member, i.e. who is running in front of one constituency. If the local congregation has 50 council members, that means 1,500 signatures. If we have 10 lists going to the election, say, that's 15,000 signatures. The problem has been solved in smaller municipalities, which have under 20,000 voters, with the number of signatures reduced to 200. It's okay. But it's too sharp a limit between municipalities that have up to 20,000 voters and those that have something over 20. I'll set an example of Petrovic at Mlava, where we have 33,000 voters on the list, but about 12,000 people are abroad, where they work. The election is about 40 to 50% of voters due to this fact, at best. So, if we do that, we're faced with 10 votes to raise about 15,000 votes, and statistics say there are 14 to 18 thousand voters in the election. How realistic is this, and what is this activity that needs to be implemented, the grab by the sleeve, etc., along with the signature, what further complicates the situation? Indeed, an unreal situation. Or maybe it should have been built, so to speak, that the municipalities of up to 30,000 voters had 500 signatures. I haven't thought about any suggestions, but I stress that this question is very problematic. The less-represented half to -30%. Don't take this the wrong way, the SPS and I, personally, advocate gender equality, and even the advantage, when it comes to the better sex. That's my attitude. However, in this respect we cannot equate Belgrade or some other environment, a larger environment, I mean cities and environments in the interior, with small municipalities, which have much bigger problems, and sociological nature. I'm sorry, every environment is beautiful in its own way, but there are problems of this kind. For example, it cannot compare Belgrade and Zaguvica, Black Grass, Bela Palanka, etc. If we are equating them in this electoral right, or certain principles that seek gender equality, etc., it is as a principle quite fine, but if we are doing so in what the electoral laws are, in some administrative rights, then we need to even these environments both in economic terms, and in development conditions, and in investments, and in the standard of cities, and not only in what the gender representation should be, at least 30% of the fairer sex represented. We make a cartoon out of it. In those backdrops, we're going to have a situation where we're going to beg women to come, to say yes. I'd just like to say one more thing when it comes to electoral law. The National Minorities Committee didn't have time to consider this. The law says that the political parties of national minorities in the coalition of political parties participate in the allocation of mandates and when they received less than 5% of the vote, less than censorship. As a principle it's quite fine and it should be, but what about the environments in which the majority people, the Serb people, are in a minority compared to the number of national minorities? It will happen that if the Serb people do not win 5% of the votes on their lists there, and this principle does not apply to them, they will not enter the local parliament. In this case, the majority people cannot exercise minority rights. It's something to take care of or think about. Please, I just want to say one more thing, so I won't be long, since time is running out, when it comes to temporary councils. We now have a constitutional basis, and we will have a legal basis, which says that temporary councils should be in line with the national and political composition of local congregations. Then, let the minister propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amend municipal councils that are not in accordance with the Constitution and, the next day, with this law, because the elections remain not 2, but more than 4 months. In the end, I express great satisfaction that this law on territorial organisation will give the status of the city, while Kostolac is the status of the city municipality. I think both the Bones and the Fireman are on the line and any other solution really wouldn't be right. At this point, it is a great pleasure that we have achieved this in the talks we have had with the authorities, including the Minister for Local Self-Government, along with MPs from all political parties from Braničevsky County. I think it's important that we raised one important issue above the policy area. Also, it is my great pleasure that the town of Petrovac, finally, by law on territorial organisation, has been officially named – Petrovac at Mlava, because through that name it reflects all the beauty that I believe will attract citizens across Serbia, and out of Serbia, make them curious to visit that area called Petrovac at Mlava.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15252	The People's Messenger Jaroslav Hrebik has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Belic, shall be prepared. Mr. Batic, you'll be entitled to a replica, wait, because Mr. Hrebick is already on his way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15253	Dear President, honourable MPs, respected representatives of the ministry, this set of laws that lies ahead better defines local self-government in Serbia and, generally speaking, the whole set is good, that I am not counting individually now. My concrete remarks and observations on all four laws are focused on the functionality of municipalities, i.e. local self-government in Serbia. After the adoption of this set of laws, we receive 150 municipalities, 23 cities and the city of Belgrade. However, in Serbia, there are a number of municipalities, approximately, similar to the number of cities, about twenty, which we can say are not functional enough. Someone here mentioned that the goal is to have strong municipalities in Serbia, however, I would say – that we have functional municipalities in Serbia, which can also produce their strength. Maybe that's because we don't have a local self-government development strategy, which was supposed to make all these laws come out of it. I can understand that there wasn't enough time, we live in turbulent conditions, all of Serbia's citizens know that. However, this is one note to the Ministry, and that is what Minister Markovic said in the Committee on Local Self-Government today, that this is more thought in the next, i.e. In 2008, what are our municipalities and whether there may be a need somewhere to change territories, i.e. the boundaries of the territory of the municipalities, and all due to their functionality. The link between the municipality and the ministry is realized through the ruling majority that is in the municipality. So, the majority is telling the Ministry what the state of the municipality is. The question is whether the majority will say the right state of affairs, whether the municipality, essentially, is functional, because while the ruling option, parties or coalitions, is nevertheless in power, it has planned its budget for that year for that territory. If there were, perhaps, a change in that territory, the budget would also be changed, which is not the right option. By doing so, you cannot get the right state of affairs from this ruling majority, whether this municipality is functional by some criteria or not. What should I do? The municipalities in Serbia should be individually observed, there are not 1,500 of them, there are 150 of them. Simply, to record the situation, by organising a debate in these municipalities, the 'round tables' about the functionality of the municipality, which would result in perhaps the National Assembly initiative also having an advisory referendum, as it is said here, and really seeing the public's mood in terms of how high their municipality is and whether in another version it would be more quality, more functional. All of this should be done in order for citizens to be able to meet their general needs, as the municipality's name itself says, as the general needs of the municipalities satisfy their citizens. For example, I come from the municipality of Stara Pazova, which has now, a little while longer, and 80,000 inhabitants and three gravitating centers. In this law on local self-government, the municipality has a certain number of settlements and one gravitating seat. What happens to those municipalities in Serbia that have more gravity centers? There's a problem, because usually these people who are in the ruling furniture, who are only from one of these gravitating centers, are always pulling towards that center, and the other parts of that community are neglected. I think there are about 20 cases in Serbia. It is a job for the competent ministry to record the situation, but not only, as I have already mentioned, through the ruling majority in the municipality, but through wider social circles of the municipality. Then we'd get the right picture. Otherwise, under the new law, this initiative can be launched by the municipal assembly, it can be 10% of voters, and so can you, fellow MPs. You are best aware of the situation in your municipalities and if you see such an initiative or, if it is not available, and you think it is necessary, it is not bad to check, in order for citizens of these municipalities to live better, based on its functionality. Also, the law on local self-government assumes municipal police for cities, which I support, although I think we should also consider municipal police in municipalities. You know how negligent it is about municipal activities in municipalities in Serbia, not to mention what's going on, and the question is whether municipal inspections can respond to these needs on the ground, which are their powers and how much they respect themselves in the field at all. I don't think that's enough and that, with the police's powers, if even some of them could be detained because of some communal violations, the situation would be more settled because the communal negligent is huge. The law on local elections provides for 30 signatures per proposal for each candidate in the polling list in the municipality with more than 20,000 voters, with only 200 signatures for the electoral list in municipalities below 20,000, which is good, because that would be a big problem. We wanted to amend it, as an MP's club, but when it was inserted, we support it. I wouldn't be too long. As my colleague from the G17 Parliament Club said earlier, we will support this law. As far as I can see, these laws, all four, have enough majority and they will probably be adopted. In this way, the Constitutional Law will also be respected and we will be able to get a better quality local self-government, defined than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15254	Thank you. The Republic has a National MP, Dr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15255	Mr. Mihajlovic mentioned me, so I needed to just answer. A bit of a thread is lost, because I didn't get a straight line. Mr. Mihajlovic also said that Mr. Vasiljevic should be at those meetings with the reserves. Of course I don't mind, and it should be anyone who can help solve that problem. No one has the exclusive right to deal with this problem. The happiest thing would be to get rid of it and never mention it again in my life. Yesterday we heard stories of heroism, heroism at the time of NATO intervention, about people who spent several months in trenches, risked their lives, and people who strike for more than 100 days were just in those trenches, ready to give their lives for their country, and today they're fighting from threshold to threshold, from unloved to unloved. But why is he avoiding me being invited? Because one of the presidents of the municipality on this side has charged those high logs. I don't want to mention his name, to protect his integrity, because maybe, and he needs to collect it, maybe he's right, maybe it's too high and enormous, but I just want everyone treated equally. We'll have one exclusive. One man, again on this side, in a much higher position than the president of the municipality, also charged war logs. Then it bothers Vladan Batic to attend these meetings. It's a shame, because it's about ordinary people and their lives. These people want to give their kids a tree. No one works there, but all initiatives involving ordinary people are easily rejected, barriered, arrogant, misunderstood. Here, and that initiative of more than 30,000 people, who put their ID card number on ice and snow, their home number, in order to form a polling committee for Delta today, you have so smoothly refused, and, I repeat, it is the initiative of the citizens of this country and their families. Because of the monopoly, food in this country is the most expensive in Southeast Europe, because of the monopolies, they cannot accommodate their children what is appropriate for the New Year and Christmas, the most important thing in our tradition. But that is why, by your will and by your majority, you gave a beautiful New Year's present to Miroslav Miskovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15256	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a time away and we are certainly tired and since yesterday – tonight's session, but the importance of the laws that are before us deserves to talk about them, considering our constitutional obligation, because today, through this debate, we are harmonising these laws with the Constitution and preparing, practically, legal conditions for the conduct of local elections. If that's possible, of course, in the shortest lines I'll stick to these laws, first of all to the law on territorial organization. Since I come from Valjev, a city that, among these 24 cities, including Belgrade, has gained city status, I also express satisfaction. On the other hand, I remind myself that it couldn't have been any different, given that before the end of last year Valjevo, perhaps with some fallout, was too quickly skipped during the first proposal that the municipalities would gain city status. However, because of the potential it has, above all, because of its history, its socio-economic development, cultural, educational, touristic, and especially because Valjevo is a spiritual centre through centuries, as it is today, it could not have been different than to find that municipality among those who will have the status of the city. It should be said that the legislator provided for the possibility that more municipalities could educate the city, that they could unite themselves, agree in a previous debate, see what are common definitions that bind them and find interests in these integrations. This is a very important thing also in terms of further decentralisation of the government, regardless of what anyone thinks, and with the recently adopted Budget Law and a series of other laws predicting even regional development, I think we are gradually approaching what we all want in the interior, and that is, on the one hand, decentralisation of the authorities, and, on the other hand, even regional development. These are just some of the remarks that DSS-NS MPs have on the proposal for a law on territorial organisation. As far as the law on local self-government is concerned, it is also very important and there is a alignment with the Constitution. There has been a lot of dilemma in the public debate, especially in the media, by some political parties. Practically, we were all somehow involved in this public debate, and most of the talk was whether the executive authority, or the president of the municipalities, had to be elected directly or indirectly. Experiences are different and certainly should be respected by the people who wrote this bill, i.e. to respect their experience in the previous meeting, not only since 2004, in the previous government, but even since 2000, since the different criteria were, practically the law regulated it differently. They're different experiences. We had environments where one prominent figure was convincingly winning the direct elections, such as the Valjevo case, where the president of the municipality received 21,500 votes, but on the other hand, we also had an obstruction by SO, which was formed because of this or that interest or, as it is popularly said, jumped in a different way to the detriment of the citizens. He was a paralysed municipality and SO, and none of us want to. For these reasons, I think it is good and we will have fewer conflict situations, given that the president of the municipality will be elected in the committee assembly in an indirect manner. It should be said here that everyone in the interior, every municipality, including the MPs who were in this and who were in the last meeting, are eager to expect one set of laws, a comprehensive solution to the problem of municipal property, because the fact is that since 1995, when municipalities are decommissioned, great damage is done, above all, financially, and we know about the dispute over obtaining consent, investors are lost, etc. I think it's worth mentioning, if already my colleagues, previous speakers, didn't say that, that MPs, which is a constitutional obligation, couldn't be part of the executive government. This, perhaps, could, regardless of the constitutional provision being repeated, have been incorporated into this law. On the other hand, after the elections, the president of the municipality and his deputy are scheduled to stop being committees, or resign. This may be interesting in disbanding, or cases where conditions for disbanding local self - government congregations have arisen. There are all those reasons, I won't repeat them, it's a common thing, but when appointing the composition of a temporary body, it may not be a burning that even, even in law, it says that they can't be members of the provisional body of parties who, in previous elections, have not passed the censorship. In this case, it will be even more rigorous, 5%, because we have inappropriate situations today in the interior, that, respecting the coalition from the republican level, in the locality, the temporary body is composed of representatives of these parties. In the end, something about local elections. They are, of course, the most attractive for our citizens, because the largest corpus of that electoral body is included in these elections. And for DSS MPs, it was a dilemma whether it was a better proportional or majority system. The explanation of the promoters is quite understandable, because it is logical that in local environments citizens opt for those policy options they consider to be able to bring them a better, leading quality of life, to solve the most pressing problems in local self-government, and that is not the case for individuals. It is good that it is now disabled by the bill that an individual can run by collecting 20-30 signatures, going on the list and becoming a councilman, as there have been cases. It cannot, because the legislator predicted that it must be at least a third of the parliamentary list. So, if it is 60 or 61, at least 20 committee members can fit on that list of committee candidates, including that interested citizen. Citizens are looking at the political option, watching who can bring them a better and in an extremely practical and pragmatic way to see who currently forms power, because for those who make up power, citizens are committed. Logically, they can help them, and those who, unfortunately, are in opposition, have to wait for the next train. It's also very important to say, when it comes to the shortcomings of the proportional system, that we have individuals who are practically sheltered behind the party. We cannot avoid the possibility that within strong, well-organised parties, which achieve good results in the elections, good percentages can be found on their list and some who, as individuals, would not be able to gain citizens' trust in this majority system. It is good that these corrections have been introduced, when it comes to the application procedure, as I have already mentioned, the censorship has been increased to 5%, and then these signatures and the approval of the committee candidates. I got information from my colleagues that there are already amendments that are supposed to amend the law. It seems to me that it's quite complicated, perhaps in practice it can cause serious problems, precisely, this number of 30, but it can only be certified in court or in the municipality. It may be good, as my colleagues have already told me, that it is possible for the municipal administration to empower its officials, that it can be done in local communities, or local offices, to relieve the crowd. On the other hand, the positive side of this proposal is that we're going to have these small, adventure groups, marginalists, or some of whom, at a bad time, said politicians are very smart, so they dared run, such adventurers we'll leave waiting for the next election. In the end, this contract with the councilman. This, in practice, has been elaborated on that constitutional provision that says the parliamentary mandate is a matter of good faith for the MP himself, so that he can entrust the mandate to the party who put it on the list. In this case, this is even more precise, so that an authorised applicant of the electoral list can resign after a contract with a committee candidate. I am completing one significant provision, which is that when one committee member is resigned, the proposed committeeman does not have to respect the order of the committees reported, as is the case with the MPs in the Republic Parliament, which has not been the case so far. I think that you in the ministry were facing a serious problem when you received a report from the local self-government, from a local assembly, where some proposed candidate for a councilman, but without prior statements that everyone who had given up their parliamentary mandate in front of him. It was, indeed, an incomprehensible thing, because, by analogy, it could also be applied to what is happening to the republican MPs. Of course, Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica will vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15258	Thank you. The last speaker, Ambassador Dejan Rajcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15259	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that the second time has broken my luck to be the last speaker at the end of the debate. Last time, I can tell, it was a success, I hope it's going to be the same this time. Namely, this set of laws, which is necessary for the launch, maintenance and organisation of, in general, local elections, for the organisation of local self-government, significantly improves future status, work and functioning of local self-government in Serbia. I am sure that this set of four laws, which is before us, will be adopted by Parliament. To begin with, I'd start with the law on territorial organization, as one fundamental law, which is in front of us tonight for discussion and analysis. It is good that this law verifys the existing situation and respects the existing situation in Serbia, as regards the organisation of local self-government, in terms of the alignment and acceptance of the effective situation on the ground, starting with a change in the name of cities and municipalities, to those details relating to the definition and names of settlements in those units of local self-government. Perhaps it was only needed to be more detailed and to examine whether all the inhabited places were defined by this law, essentially, and realistically populated, because the situation is well known that in the border areas of our republic there was a very large discharge of the population, so that some of the settlements, unfortunately, no longer have any single residents, living inhabitants, and perhaps, in order not to burden both the law and the administrative organisation of the local self-government itself, should have been wiped out of the population records. I found such a populated place here, but I don't want to talk about it right now. It is good that this law has given a large number of existing municipalities the status of the city, which is one of the obvious preconditions for the faster and more efficient organisation of these units of local self-government, in order to achieve the objective faster, which is manifested through a more efficient organisation and partly increased competences and competences and local communities, and the ultimate goal should be to create more efficient and faster conditions for the development and creation of new jobs and employment of these citizens. Enough here to say about the Fireman. As a born Požarevljanin, I accept the idea that my hometown, i.e. my municipality, is given the status of the city, and that, at the same time, Kostolac can be renamed by an internal act, or by the statute of the future town of Požarec, or by the status of the city municipality, which will mean a lot to the residents and locals of Kostolac. I am sure that this will also mean a great deal to the residents of the so far municipality of Leskovac. In fact, the citizens of Vucje and Grdelica certainly feel the need to organise their requirements for the development of local infrastructure, both municipal and social upgrades, in a faster and more efficient way, through a faster and more efficient internal organisation. As a man who lives and works in Nis, I must say that my city, which has so far had the status of the city, may, in this way, apparently come into a subordinate position, because from the five cities so far in Serbia, we will now be one of 23 cities. What has not existed so far in the current law on territorial organisation, it is that an opportunity has been given for institutional integration, association and the creation of joint bodies in order to function more effectively two or more units of local self-government. I think that the city of Nis, in collaboration with the municipalities located in its nearest environment, will naturally gravity towards the city, as one major economic, university, cultural centre, that even residents of these municipalities will find a motive and sufficient reason for more efficient and functional integration and future co-operation compared to the level that has existed so far. I think it was necessary to consider the possibility that so far the township of Niška Banja, which has for seven years had the status of the city municipality, would be granted the status of a special unit of local self-government. She has every prerequisite for such a thing. There are over 10,000 inhabitants, and it represents a circled geographical and functional area, with its contents, and I think the inhabitants of the municipality of Niška Banja, i.e. the residents of the so far town municipality of Niška Banja, could, in one such way, make development in the territory of their municipality faster. I think that this idea should be considered and, possibly, the next day, in the Committee on Local Self-Government, it is innovated and incorporated into this Law on Territorial Organization, as a proposal from the Assembly Committee, and with your consent that the Government accept such a solution. I don't think anyone would mind the township of Niška Banja becoming a special unit of local self-government. As far as the law on local self-government is concerned, it is well-reliant on solutions so far, of course, innovated and in the previous four years in practice shown and proven, in one way or another. We know that there have been a lot of problems in local self-government, that in the organisational sense, probably because of the lack of capacity of local self-government itself to present all competences by the Republic, and because of the internal relations that prevail on the local and political scene, but I think that, however, one radical cut should have been made in the next thing. Please, Mr. Minister, hear me, and Mr. Krasic will wait, with all due respect. I think Article 32, which refers to the jurisdiction of the city's congregations, where it is said that municipalities, or city halls, name and relieve the directors of public enterprises and institutions, is an inherited solution, that this is a mild solution, goes on a middle line. If we have already chosen, if this same congregation of the municipality, or the city, has chosen the president of the municipality and given him the executive segment of the government, then, by giving him the capacity to manage and function the city, because he is also responsible by law and represents a city, or municipality, to the city council, which is run by the mayor, or the president of the municipality, to provide the opportunity for them to appoint and relieve the directors of public enterprises and institutions. Analysis of the Republic government is next. Directors of public enterprises are appointed by the Government. It was never done by this assembly here, because the government, as an effective body, which bears legal responsibility and has this capacity to bear executive authority, will react more quickly and efficiently in all abnormal situations, in all the situations of effectiveness, in the case of work, or the poor work of one of these directors, in a faster and more efficient way, and will also resolve and prevent possible spread, or the increase of the negative consequences that one such director may, for any reason, cause and cause damage to the entire local self-government. By the time it comes to the Assembly, while all the relevant parliamentary groups that make up the parliamentary majority are agreed, the time is going, and usually there are some bumps, the damage just increases, the crowd, and we, in essence, have a very bad situation in practice. The laws we are now talking about are the most life-threatening laws, which concern every citizen in particular, because the path of solving every problem, regardless of whether he is formally in the jurisdiction of the local community or the Republic, always, firstly, goes through the president of the municipality. Because, by the nature of things, for every kind of problem, is there no bread, has anyone set anything that's in the jurisdiction of a republican public enterprise, for example? The electrical pillar, in the areas of water supply, water supply, must come to the president of the municipality, or mayor, and then the president of the municipality chases, spins the phones and begs a colleague from a republican instance to resolve the situation. It is usually correspondence and conversations that last for a while, and during that time the cumulation of the problem continues. I think that this part should change the solution and give jurisdiction to the city council, or the municipal council, to appoint and resolve directors, instead of, as currently provided for in Article 32, point 9, that this is what the assembly does. I think it would be faster and more efficient, and in the end, the city's larger political body, made up of politicians, and that's what makes up the structure of the congregation's majority. So we have the essence of the congregation in one. A good solution is that the finally formed municipal police, therefore, has been given the possibility of local self-government to form a municipal police force, because so far, there have been many problems in practice due to insufficient opportunities and capacity of municipal inspectors, who do not have sufficient authority to solve the communal problems, i.e. to intervene with entities that violate the communal order, and then seek police assistance. As this coincides with their action plans and possibilities, time passes, and during that time wild dumps are created and there is an illegal enterprise, this or that. This is a great solution. I know that the city of Banja Luka, although in Republika Srpska, another state has now introduced that practice five or six years ago, and therefore they have a clean and orderly city. I'm not saying it's just the merit of the municipal police, of course, starting with the awareness of the citizens themselves to take care of their communal environment. That's a good solution. We come to that essential issue, I want to point out tonight, concerns the provision contained in the capital law, in Article 8(5), which says that the city of Belgrade has been given the opportunity to be the founder of electronic and printed texts. It's a very ungrateful situation for all of us who come from the inside. We had a chance, and you and we all here, to see that, by chance, just yesterday, low television, their workers and representatives, brought here and handed over a petition to the President of Parliament, supported by 35,000 Nish citizens, which requires city television, so the founder is the City Assembly, which has been functioning for 13 years, except for privatisation. It is not according to the Law on Broadcasting and European standards, but let's find a medium solution and give the citizens of Nis the right to objective and correct information. It is that there are 12 or 13 local TV stations in the town of Nis, several of which have a very high quality information program, but the overall content, the programming scheme of these private televisions, cannot be at the level that can provide television, which is the founder of the social community, and in this case the city of Nis. I must remind myself that the city of Nis in 1996, at the time of the beginning of civil protests in Serbia, the awakening of civil consciousness, had the first free electronic means, the TV medium, so all the politicians at the time simply raced to hear and see their word through it. I think we owe so much to the citizens of Nis, they still keep their local TV. I suggest that it be done in such a way that in the law on local self-government, in that provision that speaks of the possibility of institutional integration of two or more units of local self-government, a new position would be added which would allow the community of local self-government to be the founder of these public votes. Once again, I call on all the committees, excuse me, MPs, to support this set of laws on local self-government and to vote on that and confirm that in the day of the vote. The DSS-NS parliamentary group will surely support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15260	There are no more registered speakers on the lists. Whether they want the word representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15261	I can only thank you for the current debate. I think we've defined a few shortcomings in this text during today's debate, and I hope that tomorrow, during the day, through the amendments, tomorrow the committees are, and that the day after tomorrow, the debate on amendments will fix what needs to be fixed. Anyway, I'm glad there's such a degree of agreement on these solutions, and I hope we finish the whole job on Saturday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-27-0.u15262	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law on Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law on Local Elections and a Proposal for a Law on the Capital. We continue our work on Saturday, December 29th, 2007, at 10 o'clock, by discussing these laws in particular. Thank you.
