ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10910	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 122 Members of the People are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the People's Messengers to establish the quorum. I find that more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the MPs: Elvira Kovac, Riza Halimi, Milorad Belic, Marko Djurisic, Edip Sheriffov, Konstantin Samofalov, Vuk Dinčić, Natasa Vukković, Vesna Marjanović, Tot Tamaš and Oliver Dulic. Before we continue the search in detail, let me say that on Friday, at 8:15 p.m., three Molotov cocktails were thrown at our fellow MP Stojanka Petkovic's house. We condemn this and every similar form of violence and expect the competent authorities to detect the perpetrators very quickly and act in accordance with the law. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Susana Grubjesic, head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10911	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, this is why I report to the Rules of Procedure has not been foreseen. There is no member who predicts that the life or property of any member of the congregation will be endangered, nor can this be predicted in any congregation assembly, in any congregation work. National MP G17 plus Stojanka Petkovic experienced the fact that an explosive device was thrown at her house on Friday, at 8:15 p.m., and that large material damage was done. Fortunately, there were no injuries, no casualties. We expect UNMIK police, from Kosovo police forces to discover the perpetrators and punish them, but we expect the Serbian state to react, as it is not only an attack on the Petkovic family, but an attack on the Serbian state's institution, the National Assembly. Stojanka Petkovic has for years pointed to crime and corruption, the difficult position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Maybe that's where they're hiding the reasons for this disgusting attack. I don't want to guess, nor does the G17 plus party want to guess who did this, but we're expecting reactions. We also expect the Assembly to condemn this event, we expect this event to condemn both the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, whose Stojanka Petkovic is a member. I can only say that the perpetrators failed in their intention. Nor will Stojanka Petkovic leave Kosovo, nor will the G17 Plus party stop acting in Kosovo. On the contrary, these days we are forming a circuit board and we want to act on the territory of all Serbia, including the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10912	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10913	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I am reporting as a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. It is essential that such an odious and terrorist, vandal act goes against our colleague, MP, Mrs. Petkovic, condemns it, I just need to remind her that Mrs. Petkovic in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija was very bravely discussing it. There are us here, in the O.R., who were at that session, when she pointed to numerous irregularities, numerous criminal behaviours, corruption, crime that is on the rise in Kosovo and Metohija territory. She was truly very determined and courageous in speaking and criticizing all these negative phenomena. I don't want to guess who's behind this attack, but the fact is that the attack took place in the territory of Kosovo that only Serbs live on, in the Serbian environment, among Serbian houses, and it further dissuades and discourages, causing unrest, because when it happens to the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, what other citizens can expect to point out to abuses, crime and corruption. I think it would be good to hold a session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija today, there is Mr. President, and I think it would be good if we also took some views from that committee and sent certain messages, because it is necessary for the perpetrators of this act to be discovered as soon as possible, that the punishment and that the state of Serbia shows that there are institutions to protect its citizens and its MPs, to show that no one can be unpunished against the state of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10914	Thank you. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10915	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, yesterday I visited the family house and family of our colleague Stojanka Petkovic and in a conversation with her and her family we came to the conclusion that this was the last thing that could happen, at least between us Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. At the moment our state and all authorities are fighting for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia, someone dared to throw explosive devices at the family house at that moment. I would not bid, nor would Mrs Stojanka Petkovic herself, on the motives, but there is no motive that in this time, bombing and explosive devices, will solve any possible problems, because, after all, Mrs. Petkovic's house was children. I agree with Mr Srdjan Milivojevic's proposal, and during the day we will schedule a Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, where we will condemn this disgusting attack, and I am joining the appeal of all MPs, likely, that Kosovo institutions, police, UNMIK police and our organs will bring this unwarranted event to light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10916	Thank you, Mr. Milentievich. We expect you to provide us with information from both the Committee and everything that follows. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COURT (existing in particular) I remind you that it is the Assembly. At a session held on 16 November, he completed his work during the search of MP Zdravko Topalovic's amendment to Article 49. Anyone else want to talk about that amendment? National MP Vjerica Radeta, on the amendment of MP Zdravko Topalović to Article 49. The Constitutional Court Act. Total remaining time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10917	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, counterpart Zdravko Topalovic has submitted an amendment to Article 49. The draft law on the Constitutional Court, and Article 49 states that decisions of the Constitutional Court, apart from decisions under constitutional appeal, are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as an official note, etc., that I do not read everything. The bottom line is that counterpart Topalovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment to delete the words "except for decisions under the constitutional appeal". We think that all decisions taken by the Constitutional Court should be made and must be made public in the Official Messenger. There is no reason for any decision of the Constitutional Court to be segregated from that obligation provided for in Article 49. It's a bill of law. The government said it does not accept this amendment, because it considers it not celibate to publish decisions by constitutional appeal in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", because the constitutional appeal can be declared against an individual act or action by a state body or organisation, and that it concerns only persons to whom a human or minority right has been denied or injured. Then, the last sentence says, besides, in the position of Article 2 49. The draft law provides the possibility that a decision can also be published following a constitutional appeal. The 2nd position reads: "A decision can be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia by constitutional appeal, as well as solutions that are of broader importance for the protection of constitutionality and legality." Why did the government foresee this position 2 and say that the decision can be announced after the constitutional appeal? So, again, we are putting this future constitutional court in a position to abuse its powers and to assess what it is of general interest, which is the decision under a constitutional appeal that can be made public, which should be protected from the public's eyes, which is the organ or, in particular, the name and the name that is wrong about the Constitution, where, according to the constitutional appeal, the Constitutional Court decides that there was indeed a violation of the human or minority rights of a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Then we leave it to the Constitutional Court to decide whether to publish it or not. The SRS is of the opinion that nothing done by the Constitutional Court or by what the state authorities are doing must be removed from the public's eyes. The "officer" is a message that publishes all acts and acts by the National Assembly and the Republic Government, the Constitutional Court, part of acts, etc., acts by state authorities. The "officer" is something that is useful, it is public, but it is used by a very narrow circle of people, that is, by lawyers in businesses and institutions that deal exclusively with this business, and the general public, and by not being notified enough by the "officer" decision. If we say we won't make any decisions, then what situation are we bringing the Constitutional Court to? That one of the judges of the Constitutional Court should comment, because you did not accept the amendment that he could not comment, and then we have the opinion of one member of the Constitutional Court or of another member, the second judge of the Constitutional Court, as we had the case, as I said on Friday, when the same legal matter was given by Judge Ciplic of the DS and the one from G17 Slobodan Vučetic, who has been receiving the salary today, and has been retired for almost a year as judge of the Constitutional Court. With our amendment, we also want to protect the Constitutional Court, we want to protect all citizens of Serbia. No one can judge what's of particular importance and what's not. Any violation of the human or minority rights of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia deserves to be published, deserves to open up the possibility of being able to comment and no one can choose what is to be published and what is not to be published. Mr. Minister, I think this amendment is very clear, that you should accept it on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to put the Court of Justice in an awkward situation, not to allow, but to, from the adoption of this law and the beginning of its application, i.e. forming a Constitutional Court, we can think, both here and all citizens of Serbia, about what the Constitutional Court is hiding, what it publishes, what it doesn't publish. Therefore, any decision of the Constitutional Court, and even if an unfounded request is a citizen, and the Constitutional Court finds that, should be made public because the decisions of the Constitutional Court are a kind of legal practice. Each Constitutional Court decision obliges all citizens of Serbia, all institutions and then it is perfectly logical that every decision be made public, so that all other authorities and all citizens know how to behave without violating the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10918	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? (No) The 49th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10919	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to ask you, if it's no problem, that the next amendment, which has also submitted, also, the LDP Parliamentary Group, I say what I have in this time, since it is more legal-technical in nature, so we don't waste time. First of all, I would quote this member of the Constitutional Court Act. Article 49 says: "The decisions of the Constitutional Court, apart from the decision under the constitutional appeal, are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as in the official publication of the Statute of the Autonomous Province, the second general act and the collective agreement, i.e. in the manner in which the General Act was published in which the Constitutional Court decided. ''That's the position of Article 1 49. This is where we tabled the amendment, and our proposal was to change the article and read: "The decisions of the Constitutional Court, together with the opinions set out, are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as well as in the Official Journal in which the Statute of the Autonomous Province, the second General Act and the collective contract was published, i.e. in the manner in which the General Act was decided". We believe that this member should be amended, first of all, because this institute, which is a constitutional appeal, is a fundamentally important issue, and we would draw attention here that this is important because of the functioning of the legal order in general. Decisions under the constitutional appeal show how guaranteed human and minority rights are violated, so publication is very important for the overall public order. In addition, publication of these decisions by constitutional appeal is mandatory, which would also give credibility to the constitutional appeal itself, or would invite all citizens to file constitutional complaints as often as possible. I would now move on to this next amendment, which we have submitted, which is, above all, legal-technical nature. So, Article 49(2) changes and reads "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as well as solutions that are of broader importance for the protection of constitutionality and legality". In this way, this article is much more comprehensive and quality. It's our proposal again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10920	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petrovic, I have carefully read the government's reply, because you said in the principle debate that the government, taking care of each amendment submitted, will give an answer requiring the Constitutional Court law to be strictly aligned with the Constitution. However, as counterpart Maras said, this is not only a matter of technical nature, but it is the essential decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to read publicly, therefore, 'The Official Messenger', not to publish the Constitutional Court's decision by constitutional appeal, by the fact that my colleague, Maraš and colleague Stankovic, went a step further, to rely on Mrs Verica Radete's story, so they asked the amendment to allow the possibility of publication and separate opinions in the first position of Article 49. You are very contradictory or you have no communication with each other in the government, or Kostunica has not informed you that the government of the Republic of Serbia has worked in relation to the publication of certain laws. Here, now I'm going to do this comparative and you'll see that both Zdravko Topalovic and his colleagues have submitted this amendment. What is the public interest and, firstly, how is it estimated to be of broader public interest, when it comes to an assessment of interest - to publish something concerning the protection of constitutionality and legality? They all address the Constitutional Court and every constitutional appeal is basically that. When we spoke in the principle debate that now the Constitutional Court, under the new constitution, should have such importance that in the judicial branch the authorities can be viewed as some fourth degree of protection, right, judicial, because only professional and competent people should decide on the complaints of each citizen, then it is clear why we insisted that every decision be made public, and here you have an opinion. Why is that? Here, Mr Petrovic, in all the meetings of the Assembly, I have followed very well for the past, those three and something, the years of Kostunica's power, you were some major opposition, although not in the right sense, because you voted almost for all the laws proposed by Kostunica's government, justifying yourself, especially when it comes to a group of economic and social laws, which are disastrous, that they were left by Pitic and Djelic for the legacy, and then it was easy for you to press the green button. What happened at the official messenger, Mr Petrovic? Ask, when you go either to your parliamentary club here, the Democratic Party, or to the Government, to give you a brochure published by the company "The Official Messenger", which is now a colleague of Gavrilovic, is that right, after he resigned from the parliamentary term, and you will see what is happening in "The Official Messenger". How absurd, then, that you do not publish decisions by constitutional appeal and opinions, because it can be a kind of contribution not only to judicial practice, but also to any student of the law school, to anyone who studies constitutional law, whether it can be a kind of upgrade and to Kostunica himself, who apparently raised his hands from the Constitution and out of respect of the Constitution from the moment when he stopped being more serious about science in that sense, because, apparently, he is an expert in that legal area. Mr Petrovic, there is no law passed by the past government without being published not only by the official messenger, as it must, of course, as a law, but as a sort of textbook. You know what that looks like? For example, the Tourism Act, and the resolute minister was Bojan Dimitrijevic, where Bojan Dimitrijevic was granted exclusive rights from "The Official Messenger", means that someone had to approve him, or "The Official Messenger", and that he had the consent of former ministers and Kostunica, as prime minister. Furthermore, the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, I will take that as an example, which he explained on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, former Minister of Faith Mr. Radulovic, and a number of other laws. Here, there's the law on bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Each minister, who normally publishes "The Official Messenger", took on himself, as a kind of copyright, because "The Official Messenger" published it as books, and not as a law issue, so the author and the minister, I mentioned these two-three, so they give a preface, so they have their reviewers. That's how people wanted to celebrate and the official messenger printed it. It was not an obligation for the Official Messenger to print a law passed in the Assembly, but rather to promote those ministers. I don't want to tell you, and on one occasion I was here saying "The Official Messenger," to see how Mr. Micunovic's works were published. Although I don't mind, because he's the chairman of the Management Board of the Official Messenger, right, he says there what the title of the book is, imagine - 106 elected assembly speeches. Then we can publish the volumes, as far as congregation talks are concerned, because we Serbian radicals have the most experience in that. Now we show up at Gavrilović's and Micunović's and say, "Come on, you print to us." So, what was the interest in promoting these ministers and giving them the right to be their own kind of authorial works? Here, colleague, Mr. Marko Danilovic was once, as Secretary of the Assembly and as an active participant in all election procedures, as someone who worked in RIK, together with counterpart Jasminka, help me, as the last name, who is the deputy secretary, published a collection of regulations regarding election laws, or election cycles. I understand that and I don't mind, like no SRS MP. Do you know why? Because all these regulations and all that RIK was doing were contained in a book where the biggest contribution was made by the SRS. If it wasn't for the members of the RIK of the SRS, you could do whatever you want after the election cycles are over and you could fool around any way you want. But you can't. It is now of interest, Mr. Minister, that every constitutional appeal be made public, even a comment, or a separate opinion. Because, in order to remain a clue, let's say, for some amazing laws, harmful to the state, which, above all, were contrary to the Constitution, which have a retroactive character, such as that famous Djelic's Extraprofit Act, that there was no comment and that there was no constitutional appeal, which was filed on behalf of the SRS by Mr Zoran Krasic. I think it was a few hundred pages. That would be forgotten. As a contribution, not only to history, but also to future generations that will deal with everything that has come out of the Constitution -- how the Constitution violates, how people have filed constitutional complaints -- it will be a really important document. You shouldn't run away from it and it won't cost the government of the Republic of Serbia anymore and the official messenger from the books of these mentioned authors, who actually didn't do anything and didn't write anything. When an authority, i.e. an organisation, an Autonomous Area or a local self-government, or an individual, enters the process to seek the protection of legality and constitutionality in front of the Constitutional Court, excuse me, please, but this is a very important matter and each of these cases, as says a colleague of Radeta, regardless of whether protection is human and minority rights, whether it is a drastic violation of the law or the statutes of organs and units of local self-government, requires and how public attention. Why hide it? Why should it be hidden from the eyes of the public when we don't know what's going to happen and how many people who have gone before the Court in Strasbourg so far are going to seek protection from this constitutional court? So, it's a very meaningful amendment, both. It is a decision that should arise from, above all, your prudence, if you have it, that one such situation may be a lesson to other judges. The Constitutional Court judges will change, so let them have a written clue in that sense, as well as a whole, as you like to say, the expert public, who will evaluate. First of all, that every citizen and every individual knows that he did not do it in vain and that his comment and opinion, which everyone has the right, by law, to present at the session, is not only the testimony of this one procedure being conducted, but the one situation that has arisen because of the violation of the Constitution and the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10922	On the occasion of the amendment, MPs Branislav Nedimovic, Dusan Bajatovic and Vladan Batic reported. The word is Mr Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10923	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is certain that this amendment, which was mentioned earlier by our colleague, Mrs. Verica Radeta, and these two amendments submitted by LDP representatives in connection, and that the matter they speak of is extremely close, if not identical. Here we just have to point out one thing, that – when decisions are made on the requirements, when it comes to constitutional appeal and individual requests, whether it is an individual or a decision of some business organisations or any other, one can very often have problems with the publication of such a decision by the Constitutional Court, whether in the 'Official Messenger', or in any other note which is referred to in the draft law on the Constitutional Court. It's certain that in some of the elements you've been talking about, you're right. I would, first of all, suggest to the Ministry of Justice something in this sense, when he later discusses this in practice, because this is extremely important because of the expert public, because the decisions of the Constitutional Court are very important and all of us who are dealing with law at certain times have come across these decisions and drawn some of our individual courts about it. We do not have such an amendment, but perhaps we should think through practice, possibly, of some criteria related to the publication of such an individual decision by a constitutional appeal. That's what I wanted to point out, possibly, to think about, because this is an extremely important matter, and these amendments, in this form, in my opinion, should not be accepted, so I call on the other fellow Members of Parliament not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10924	The amendment is referred to by MP Dusan Bajatovic, then a replica, Verica Radeta. Then, Mr. Martinovic, about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10925	Thank you. I have to say that, contrary to my colleague Nedimovic's position, I think that here we are now having a controversy about what, in fact, everything should be published, and what not, and in what way. I don't think the Constitutional Court's decision can harm any individual, because when you interpret the Constitution, based on some appeal or anything, I don't see why it would be absent in public. If I understand our Rules of Procedure correctly, it is still not too late to meet the committee responsible, the Legislative Committee in this case, or whoever, and to make these members change in the next sense, if possible, Mr. Minister. I think it's good for court practice, especially for criminal law with us, who works under the new law, because we have a new constitution and new segments in the Constitution, from human rights and beyond. We've completely overlooked that things can be published on the Internet. I think it would be good and it would be of importance to the case law, not only to the professional public, but also to citizens who want to be more advanced and to be informed that all decisions – and to the Constitutional Court, and especially to those courts dealing with judgments in criminal law, will be made public. They don't have to be all published in the official messenger, and the people don't have to buy the official messenger. You don't have it on every bar. A good part of the population is able to use the Internet. It would not be bad if, at the initiative of the legislator, the committee in charge met and discussed all decisions of the Constitutional Court were made public. I have to admit, it's quite a dispersive right to bring to the Constitutional Court something to be debated, isn't it? It doesn't matter who the bearer is. The court will discuss it, as the law says. A new society is being established, on a slightly different rule, and we are introducing new institutes into our social practice, and the Constitutional Court will be able to discuss all of this. Therefore, I urge that there be an opportunity here, so that we MPs do not now be lecturing and giving amendments that, probably because of the agreement, you will not accept, that the Legislative Committee, in agreement with the Proposer, says all decisions will be published on the website of the Constitutional Court. I think the same thing, in a way, should be introduced, not by law, and as a practice of courts that decide on criminal charges. In the case of the Constitutional Court, I think it is very important to adopt that amendment that speaks of the judge having the right to attach his own opinion. You fought so much against the universe system, which showed its unity, so you called it false unity, because there were cracks. I think it's important for the Constitutional Court's practice to issue opinions, and I think that it should remain an integral part of the court's decision, however it may be. Why? Because it will, in fact, affect the creation of new court practice with us. I don't know how much I helped solve this situation somehow. If we have already led to the fact that, in practice, SRS MPs, both the SPS and LDP agree on the need to give citizens the opportunity to have insight into certain things, the ruling coalition could think about it, if everything is not already going to the 'Official Messenger', that all judgments are published online, in a way accessible to citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10926	On the amendment, the order was this: Nedimovic, Dusan Bajatovic, Vladan Batic, and Aleksandar Martinovic also reported. The reply to the presentation of MP Nedimovic was presented by Verica Radeta and Slobodan Maras. According to the Rules of Procedure, MEP Nenad Konstantinovic, Vjerica Radeta and Slobodan Maras, and Mr Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10927	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must respond by article 101 to the presentation of my colleague, Natasha Jovanovic. It is being deluded and Parliament, or MPs of Parliament, and citizens of Serbia, that Professor Micunovic, otherwise, is the MP of the DS, the chairman of the Management Board of the "Official Messenger". No DS MP is a member of any board of directors or chairman of any board of directors. It's DS's decision. And the chairman of the Management Board is Professor Vukasin Pavlovic. Please do not lead Serbian citizens astray in the future about what MPs are doing in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10928	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10929	Since you're so loathsome about public enterprises, Mr. Konstantinovic, I don't know how Mr. Gavrilovic's quick-to-go departures are coming from. I'm calling in an article. 1st and 226th. You, Mr. Obradich, can give me information on the system three, two, one, but don't go, but stop, how you've deployed those functions. It doesn't matter if he was a member of the board or president, it's what one of the MPs threw out of the bench, so I said it by the way. The point is, you could have told me how much fee was received for those books, that is, those "great congregation speeches". It would be better for you, Mr Konstantinovic, to start reading the collected works of Professor Vojislav Seselj, in the edition of the SRS, to learn something, since you are fresh in this parliamentary business or, perhaps, books such as one of the legendary Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of our parliamentary group, "In the assembly trenches", to see how we fought for democracy, rights and obligations of the MPs, and we never abused them in such a way. At the very least, it is strange that the president of one assembly committee, someone who is an MP in several terms, in the Official Messenger, publishes his congregation speeches, which, in the right sense of the words, at least for the development of democracy and the essence of our work, did not leave any great trace, although the author wanted it, and you all wanted it along with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10930	The word has the People's MP Vjerica Radet, a replica to the presentation of the MP Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10931	counterpart Bajatovic said that it is obvious that SRS, SPS and LDP MPs agree that this amendment, or some of these three amendments, which are essentially the same, should be accepted, and I would add that it is obvious that DSS MPs agree with that, because what counterpart Nedimovic said here is actually a recognition that it is good amendments, but I guess he can't resist it, so he admits that it is so, and then says - let's leave it to some future work of the Constitutional Court to create some practice to determine what is important, what is irrelevant. That's completely pointless. If you think that in any future period, the Constitutional Court will determine what is to be published, and what should not be published in the Official Messenger, then there is no reason not to say that this amendment is good, or one of these three amendments, or all three, or that one of these amendments on the Legislative Committee is acceptable. That's what you actually said here. You are now announcing, so let it go as it is, and then, in some changes and additions to this law, we will incorporate this provision that we are talking about today. There's really no reason to wait for anything, there's no reason to think about someone who's threatened by human or minority law not wanting to know. On the contrary, we are convinced that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia who thinks and who appears to have been violated by human or minority law, so contact the constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court, certainly wants to know that and that the public of Serbia is aware of it. That, at least, the MPs know. Whenever someone has a problem with any state authority or body of local self-government, at least as far as the SRS Parliamentary Group is concerned, we get letters, phone calls, telegrams, people say -- come on, bring it to the Assembly, maybe that way you'll come to your senses and that way I protect my right. So the public of work is, I guess, one of the basic flows of democracy both in Serbia and everywhere in the white world. As long as something is public, there is the possibility of protecting a citizen from any authority or the conduct of any state authority or body of local self-government. One more sentence. What counterpart Bajatovic said was that these decisions were made online. We don't mind, but, Mr. Bajatovic, you know, just like me, that, unfortunately, many schools in Serbia still have outside toilets, unturned rooms, heat up on those drummers, there's no Internet talk. There is a part of the citizens who use the internet, but unfortunately in Serbia it is too small to be the only means of informing and informing us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10932	Replica, MP of the Free Maras. Mr Bajatovic, we believe that it was an initiative to call the Committee, since, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is the possibility that the Committee would propose this to the Assembly through correction or otherwise. That's a notice for the president of the Committee and the members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would refer to the full story of the MPs who came out after me on this amendment. First of all, Mr. Nedimovic said something that surprised me a little, he said that persons who filed a constitutional appeal would have a problem if the decision was made in these constitutional complaints. Mr. Nedimovic, the moment they file a constitutional appeal, they come out of anonymity, and I think it would be very important for all citizens, because of the overall legal order, to make these decisions through "the Official Messenger", because it would be of great importance. Secondly, I wanted to say that there are clear differences between the SRS, the SPS and the LDP in the hall. Mr. Minister, isn't it indicative that this is already the third, fourth, fifth, sixth amendment, where, in fact, the MPs of the three groups submit identical amendments? This is an attempt to really fix this law. The Constitutional Court Act will be the law of all citizens of this country, and if the three political options, which are completely different, suggest identical amendments, and the arguments are similar, I think you should really imagine. And this proposal, which Mr. Bajatovic has made, is quite in place, that once again, with the fact that, unlike him, I think we should legally resolve this, that we can't just let it be published on the Internet, or on the Internet, but that this issue should also be dealt with legally.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10934	On the amendment, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10935	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as DHSS MP, I support my amendment colleagues from the LDP Parliamentary Group. I think they're rational. The constitutional appeal may be declared against an individual legal act. I would like to bring into contact this unsettling event that happened to our distinguished colleague, Mrs Stojanka Petkovic. Therefore, the appointment of co-ordinators and district chiefs by the Government is an individual legal act. They're appointed who knows when and of course their behavior, their functioning and their functioning, I'm not talking about everyone, I'm talking about some of them, turned into a kind of despotia. Co-ordinators and district chiefs in Kosovo and Metohija became some kind of age and fugitives, as breathers, and this was pointed out by Mrs Stojanka Petkovic. She said Thursday, at a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, she was threatened, threatened to die. When I say this, there's no party membership, absolutely no connection, this is basic human solidarity. I know I'm not in love with the G17 plus party, but that has nothing to do with it. I called Mrs. Petkovic that night. Maybe it meant something to her and she told me it meant something to her. One daily newspaper, even, I think this new newspaper "Alo", has announced that its statement on the KIM Committee, its response to the Committee's session, has been accompanied by grumbling, vulgarity, anxiety, even, in the hallway and some threats. Of course, I don't bring it into a relationship, but what's the problem? I've heard that there's going to be a session of the Committee again, so I think, whether these individual acts can be initiated by a constitutional appeal, because such decisions by the Constitutional Court are precedentd and should be made public. These are things that can't happen. So here, if you're telling the truth, if you're telling the unpleasant truth, you can be the target of everyone and anyone who's bothered by that truth. I also find that, in some other way, it is much easier because I do not live in Kosovo and Metohija, it happened at this last session of the KIM Committee. Why? Because I didn't say the way some people thought I should talk. They gave a homework assignment and there's no free topic, you have to guess the subject, because I pointed out a few details. First, Kosovo and Metohija's problems were to be discussed in the Assembly, in front of MPs, in front of Serbian citizens. If we are indeed in favour of keeping Kosovo in Serbia, then this must be done publicly, as popularly said -- transparently, not that the MPs of the fundamental thing about the course of the negotiations learn from the press. Has the Resolution been adopted in the Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija? Yes, it is. Is this resolution scheduled for the Negotiating Team to report to the Assembly on the results of the negotiations? Yes, it is. Is the Negotiating Team reporting to the Assembly? He's not reporting. Two meetings in Vienna, one in Brussels, will be today, the negotiating three-point document at 14 points, we learn everything from the press. Is that a responsibility? Is this a fight for the preservation of Kosovo? Then we hear these epics, so I don't call them what kind of suggestions they are, like Minhausen, Hong Kong, that's what I've already said, total nonsense. No one in the international community will even compromise on that. Serious people don't deal with non-serious things. I've already mentioned the differences, they're shiny. Hong Kong has all agreed, and no one here can make a deal. Both Hong Kong and China live in China. Hong Kong is one of the most developed places in the world, and Kosovo is one of the most underdeveloped. Hong Kong has accepted China's jurisdiction over foreign policy and military, or defence, and here Albanians won't even hear anything about it, etc. The point of the whole story is, what kind of people's elected representatives we are when we learn about it from newspapers, if we read newspapers and watch television, just like the late Duško Radovic said -- he has the power to solve it, but he won't tell us what it is, he wants to surprise us. Then tomorrow will be some new court and motion, but it's inconclusive and irresponsible. I said further about those at the top of the authorities who claim that sovereignty and integrity will be preserved in Kosovo, that they are fairy tales; if, God forbid, there will be no such thing, right away at home, immediate resignations. Some claimed that Montenegro would forever be part of the SCG. It was the first point of the previous government's coalition agreement -- the preservation and strengthening of the state union. Then she fell apart and now, like, what I'm supposed to be, it doesn't matter, we move on. Will they behave that way even if Kosovo goes away? So, is that a responsibility? Furthermore, what I mentioned, abuses of coordinators, district chiefs, people at the top of some of our institutions, health care, education. Do they receive double money – from the Kosovo and Metohija budget and from Serbia's budget, or perhaps triple, and from the National Investment Programme? Who's got the bills, where's the money? I asked that question over a month ago, but there's no answer. That is what the minister of health in the Kosovo government said in Vienna, his name is Sadik Idrizi, he is Goranac. He said exactly which hospital and which home of health under the jurisdiction of Serbia and Serbs were given money, how much money, and from the budget of the same money, for the same purposes, were given to the same hospitals and health homes. There are smuggling routes, no tenders, no decisions, no attitudes of the Directorate. On the road Wednesday night, there was a shootout and a young man was killed, the shooting of two Serb groups at an illegal border crossing near the village of Banja, on a newly built road between Zubi Potok and Novi Pazar. I say it all the time, and everybody's quiet, showing pictures of what it looks like. There's a backhoe, and behind it, trucks loaded with alcohol, oil, cigars and drugs. Did anyone answer that, did anyone react, did anyone care about that? It's not. Then, when I say it at the Committee session Thursday again, first warns me that I am trying to challenge the incident, because I am spoiling the idyll; it must not be said that these are the spirits of Serbian nationalities in Kosovo and Metohija, individual co-ordinators and district chiefs. And then, even though I didn't mention any name, no party, I'm Roma again, because for some people being Roma is the worst thing in the world. And again, I apologized to the Roma. I'm not Roma, and I wouldn't mind it at all, because people can't be divided by it, but whether they're honest or dishonest, honorable or dishonest, serious or unserious, responsible or irresponsible. Some of them, of these Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, have been enriched by the misfortunes of that people and the flow of crocodile tears, and as they shed tears, they build villas around the Kingdom, Belgrade, take millions, drive the most luxurious jeeps and share all the lessons of patriotism. It's immoral. That's why Mrs. Petkovic, who thinks and speaks differently, was the target. Thank God it's over. Let's not put our heads in the sand as a noose, it will go to the Committee again and no one will see it, and this should be the topic of this assembly and public debate as part of the general debate on Kosovo and Metohija. If the fate of KIM is resolved within a month, then this parliament should be in a permanent session, with only one item of the agenda - Kosovo and Metohija, so let's see who is faith and who is unfaithful, so let's see who does what, who gets rich, so that we can see who panders those ordinary people in Kosovo and Metohija, and see who are our breaths, publicly, loudly, by name and last name. So, I'd like that to be the agenda. I'd like the President of the Assembly to put it on the agenda. I would ask the President of the Assembly to see if the decision to punish an MP was at least symbolically implemented, whether it was on the Administrative Board. The answer is no. I ask - why? When will they stand in the way of those who are full of mouth stories about Kosovo and Metohija, and they only profit on the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10936	Thank you. I'm asking the MPs, since I don't think the number of MPs in the O.R. matches the number that shows the system in the O.R., to re-enter the identification cards. Thank you. On the amendment, it is the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The remaining time for the SRS Parliament Club is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all aware that the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is also the legislator of this law, is leading a rather restrictive policy when it comes to the publication of appropriate legal and political acts in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". A few days ago, the ruling coalition in this assembly passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government and that law stipulates that only some of its acts must be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", while some other acts can only be published if they so wish. These days, which is what we of the SRS Parliamentary Group have been saying, mentioning some of the government's conclusions on which the police in certain municipalities in Srem are allegedly trying to help the DS take over violently. These government acts have not been published anywhere. We are now meeting with a new phenomenon that decisions by the Constitutional Court of Serbia are made by constitutional appeal, too, are not published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Mr. Minister, let me point out to you the great danger behind such a solution contained in the bill. This, in practice, means that the functioning of the state today in Serbia is becoming almost secret, illegal, that citizens will not have the opportunity to learn about what the government is doing, what the Constitutional Court is doing and what acts it brings. Let me remind you, Mr. Minister, that until the First World War, it was a practice for international contracts, or contracts made by sovereign states, to be published nowhere. Citizens had no idea what international contracts the rulers concluded, concluded governments on their behalf. In the course of World War I, this may be an example of reputation for you, then US President Woodrow Wilson has advocated that all international contracts are made public, so that citizens can be aware of what rights and obligations the government has taken on their behalf. Mr. Minister, since you belong to a ruling coalition that seems to have a monopoly on the introduction of Serbia into the European Union, and which is revered by its European and its democratic ideology, to remind you that, under Article 44(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, European Conventions on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, all the judicial decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and Freedoms in Strasbourg must be publicly published. I don't get it, when you keep talking about the European Union, about some European standards, world standards, how is that not an example of your reputation? The decisions of the Constitutional Court by constitutional appeals are made, in the nature of things, in extremely delicate legal situations, when or not there is another legal mechanism for a citizen to protect his rights and freedoms, or all other legal mechanisms are exhausted. We can assume that the Constitutional Court will deal with constitutional complaints, extremely sensitive matters. If decisions taken by constitutional appeals were made publicly, this would also be an important indication to both the courts and the authorities of the administration of how to solve the same or similar cases in the future, so that citizens do not again declare a constitutional appeal. Therefore, the public publication of the Constitutional Court's decisions by constitutional appeal can, in some ways, be a correction, a model of court practice and administrative practice in Serbia. We heard today from representatives of the ruling coalition some rather tense reasoning about why decisions by constitutional appeal should not be made public. Apparently, there are, like, citizens who have filed a constitutional appeal, so the decision made after their constitutional appeal will be made public, in some kind of trouble, etc. The citizen, by filing a constitutional appeal, is in advance aware that his case will become public and that the Constitutional Court, in connection with his appeal, will have to make a decision. Who says citizens run from that publicity? Perhaps the citizens want the Constitutional Court's decision to issue a constitutional appeal, to indicate how the courts work, how the authorities of the administration operate, how they break the law, how they question fundamental human rights and freedoms. Like this, you're practically hiding the state's work from its citizens. You don't publish acts of government, now you won't announce the Constitutional Court's decisions by constitutional appeal, much longer, who knows, it might occur to you that the laws aren't being published either. Take care, Mr. Minister, for an ordinary man, sometimes it's more important to make a decision by constitutional appeal than some law. Objectively, does the ordinary world in Serbia have much interest in the Kyoto Protocol Ratification Act? I'm not saying it doesn't matter, but for an ordinary man it probably isn't, until the decision is made on his constitutional appeal, when his rights and freedoms are threatened, it can be extremely important for that individual. So, Mr. Minister, think about what we're talking about, don't bring Serbia back to the 19th and 18th centuries, when the government did what it wanted and the citizens had no idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10938	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The promoter explained with the previous amendment and this one. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) Member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10939	Ladies and gentlemen, based on article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the Constitutional Court Act. Mr. Minister, the amendment is of a technical nature and I don't understand why you didn't accept it. The reason is clear, most likely because it was filed by a Serbian radical, and if someone from your party, or those who support you, you would surely accept it. I submit an amendment to Article 50, which is in Part Four of the Law, which determines the procedure before the Constitutional Court, on its own behalf. The amendment refers to Article 50(2), which, after the words “can, ” adds the word“ stand alone. ” Also, after saying: “the provinces, ” the word “ownness ” is deleted. The solution I propose to this amendment is more correct than the formulation given in your proposal for this law. Obviously, Article 50(2) requires a correction that is in the spirit of the usual legal technique. You know that the SRS has filed 28 amendments to the Constitutional Court Act in order to improve it in all ways, so as not to make it a political court of certain parties. Our wish is to make you responsible to the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister, try to keep this law in the service of the citizens, not in the service, allegedly, of the democratic bloc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10940	Thank you. About the amendment, Verica Radeta, and Zoran Krasic, and Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed a man wonders why the amendments to the Government's proposals are being submitted in the first place and why the extreme goodwill, not to say, and the efforts of the MPs are not being respected and disrespected. The best example for this is those three amendments to this Article 49, which we have already completed the debate on, but simply cannot go around and not go back to those amendments once again, when it is obvious that two parliamentary groups, in fact, three, through the discussion of Mr Bajatovic, who represent the opposition in Parliament, are almost identically drawing attention to you, Minister Petrovic, as a representative of the Government, that the amendment should be adopted, because this is a good solution, because it is a rational, resolution solution. You sit there, you look through us, you don't care what we talk about. You've satisfied the form that we can't call the minister gone, and if you don't have any intention of breaking up with us, then I don't even know why you're here, to flaunt in the sense that you're explaining to us, to convince us why you don't think you need to change a certain solution from the bill. When the official messenger is mentioned here, who is on the board of directors, and who is not, it is truly amazing that someone is saying that MPs from the ruling coalition, however, Mr Konstantinovic said this applies to the Democratic Party, are not members of the boards of directors. Because no matter how much you try to hide it, however, some read the "Official Messenger" and see on the Internet how many MPs from the ruling coalition are on various boards. Of course, it's your commitment, you're the government, you're the power, you can do whatever you want, but then don't defend yourself against it. Say, that's right, we can, and you can do whatever you want, you from the opposition. Otherwise, in that official messenger, strange things have happened before. I remind you, for example, that Mrs. Biserka Zivkovic, otherwise, the wife of formerly Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, was the chairman of the Management Board of the Official Messenger, in a permanent working relationship. When she could no longer be the secretary of the Government's Legislative Committee, she went to the Official Messenger and established a permanent working relationship there. I remind again, first of all, that this lady, who, by the way, doesn't have a day's work in the judiciary, is today Mr. Vukcevic's special advisor, the special adviser to war crimes. So it's not the official messenger, and what's being published in it is harmless, there's a lot of power in the hands of whoever's holding the official messenger. In particular, when it comes to elections, when, sometimes in a strange way, without a tender, the creation of ballots and other election material is awarded to the "Official Messenger", just when both the director and the chairman of the Management Board are changed. It's a topic to be discussed by members of the Serbian Radical Party in the Republic Election Commission, and we here, too, why not, but it was like this, just to be noted. As for the amendment to Article 50, it is also a legal-technical character. The government's proposal sounds raving, you have to admit. So nothing fundamental changes, that word "self-sufficient," as Mr. Suleiman Spaho said, whether it's going to be ahead or behind the word "yes." He didn't read the whole point of view, so it might have been unclear what it really means, is it, like, the existence of radicals, to move the word from this place to that place. No, but it's a ruse when it's said, "The constitutionality or legality procedure can be initiated by the Constitutional Court on its own, based on the 'and so on." In the spirit of Serbian language, in the spirit of our legal system, it is more acceptable for the ear: "The procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality The Constitutional Court can independently initiate on the basis of the decision it makes" etc. The government says it does not accept the amendment, for the reason it considers the solution foreseen by the bill more precisely. This response to the government is, about, like, what – we will not accept, we may not care what you suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10942	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10943	Not only should the amendment be aware of spelling or grammar, I think it is this way that the process of assessing constitutionality and legality can be initiated in three ways. The first way – by an authorised promoter, the second way is by the Constitutional Court itself, by making a decision that accepts the initiative, and the third way – when, by a two-thirds majority, the Constitutional Court judges decide to have reason to initiate the procedure under official duty to assess the constitutionality and legality of a general act. We just wanted to point out this third way in this amendment, which we think is an important question whether the Constitutional Court has time for it and whether there will be time at all, given that, if elected, the Constitutional Court judges are waiting for quite a large archive of pending cases and all possible combinations. Mr. Petrovic, it wouldn't be bad for you to write down number K.145/02, guilty, City Court in Novi Pazar. That object's out of date. You should see who's out of date, and I know the Ministry is familiar, has information, and when you're communicating with the Supervisory Board on some new cases in the future, ask the Supervisory Board if it's a new item or if it's already been to someone, not just this one, but some other items. I expect you to launch a broad action to resolve all those who have allowed cases in court drawers to become obsolete. Let me immediately suggest, if, in some municipal court, in one year, 10 criminal cases have become obsolete, the President of that court must be resolved. So not only the judge, but also the president of the court, or the judge, may not have to be resolved if he admits who influenced him to keep the case as long as possible and to wake up in a court drawer. Just for your knowledge, since you don't have much experience with the judiciary, Mr Petrovic, in these cities, I don't count Belgrade, between 40 and 50 cases each year, that's how old it is. In Nis, 42 items, I think, in 2003 or 2002, are obsolete. If you apply that logic that you demonstrated a month ago, then all the judges of the guilty can be resolved. You will find it difficult to find one of the judges in Serbia whose case is not outdated. When you've entered a single track, then push to the end, don't skip anything. By the way, that short-time code refers to Camil Hubić, you know, the President of the District Court, and the lady who's running for judge of the Constitutional Court. It would probably hate someone to appoint her as the Constitutional Court judge if they get information from you that she too has an out-of-date case. Then we'll take a look at these other judges, help you solve justice as effectively as possible, everything that's caused the case to go out of date. From the public's point of view, it absolutely doesn't matter whether you accept or accept this amendment. You probably have some reason to inform the public that as few amendments as possible have been accepted, but that they are acceptable from the point of view of the promoter. To use this time and to point out one mistake you made when the government gave an opinion on all these amendments, regarding the publication of decisions by constitutional appeal in the Official Messenger. Mr Petrovic, all individual legal acts, if all legal means are exhausted, are legally prescribed, and if there is any doubt that there has been a violation of human and minority rights and freedoms, formally and legally meet the condition to be found before the Constitutional Court. The moment they are found before the Constitutional Court in the form of a constitutional appeal, privacy is lost and it becomes a public matter. Mr. Petrovic, the media in Serbia, "Blic", "Pres", that I do not order further, do irreparable damage to our judiciary, by publishing the parts of the Supreme Court's rulings, the district court and bringing about the most extraordinary things concerning the freedom and personality of an individual. Is it possible that the media will be able to make a full decision after the constitutional appeal without the Constitutional Court being allowed to issue a constitutional appeal in the "Official Messenger"? He writes in Section 2, as a possibility, an alternative, if it is a matter of general importance, or of interest to a number of citizens, but one who has come into the situation to file a constitutional appeal has already gone over his head and his question has long become a public matter, not just a private matter. If we have a situation where a decision on a constitutional appeal allows the media to unpunishe and bring out the most intimate things about an individual's life, why do you find it unacceptable that the Constitutional Court's decision is published by constitutional appeal in the Official Messenger? All decisions on constitutional complaints should be the kind of education of all those applying the right should become a kind of court practice, of course, less or more binding, it depends on some other factors, but should be made available to the general public, so that the public, in this way, is prevented from knowing what rights and obligations are. That's the point of public publishing. As the law cannot enter into force unless it is published in the Official Messenger and the public finds out. How will the public know to what extent can they go to protect human and minority rights if there is no authentic notice from the organ that assesses it? You're fighting, apparently, for some privacy. That privacy was lost the moment the party filed a constitutional appeal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10944	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, about the amendment, and then the MP of the people, Misa Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10945	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Your Honor, the SPS is now seeking to point out any disturbances in the functioning of the Constitutional Court, just when it comes to Article 50 of the Constitutional Court Act, especially if the fact that it has arisen from Article 175(2) is considered. The constitution, which potentifies its importance. What are the possible disturbances in the functioning of the Constitutional Court, precisely in Article 50, that even the possible formalisation of this Article is 50? We all remember that in the process of forming the Constitutional Court, instead of three, you have submitted two lists of candidates for the Constitutional Court and that one list, proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, with ten candidates, of whom five, arrived within a reasonable time frame, relatively time-out in the National Assembly, and it shows all the strength of one political party and the dominant in political life. The second list arrived with major interference. In fact, it's almost half a year late, so instead of creating time for a deal, it's been shown that the deal is not on the other list. A lot of bad is said of one candidate, compared to the other, and the disunity of the ruling assembly majority, the ruling political parties, has proved to be ununity. The SPS wants to point out that this also raised doubts about the moral qualities of individual candidates for members of the Constitutional Court, doubts of professional quality, doubts that individual candidates are favored. Then we rightly ask ourselves, they can also ask the citizens, how can we believe, when, according to the Constitutional Court's constitution protocol, the Constitutional Court judges are sworn in, and they say, I swear that in my work I will abide by the Constitution, the law, and that I will do my duty with honor, security and impartiality - in the credibility of all this is said? What we wanted to point out is that there were no third lists, and the third list is exactly ten candidates that were to be proposed by the High Council of Justice and the State Major Prosecutors, and that candidates for the High Court of Cassation are elected from that list. It's precisely those candidates for the Constitutional Court judges who shouldn't even have a minimal political background. Namely, if the previous candidates and have some pale political background, I repeat, they are not members of those parties who wanted to act constructively in the process of establishing the Constitutional Court, these are candidates who are not even proposed by individual political parties and which should be a factor of relative balance. What's going on? The court is formed with two-thirds of the candidates, so instead of 15, with 10 judges of the Constitutional Court, and there is the responsibility of the ruling political parties to form such an important institution as the Constitutional Court, and that already in the process of forming itself there are no necessary conditions for it to be fully formed. There's also the fact that the Supreme Cassation Court doesn't exist, and it's been a long time since we voted the Constitution, since when were the conditions for all of this to happen the way it should have happened. What's going on? It happens that, in accordance with Article 50 of this Law, for all decisions that require a two-thirds number of judges, today it is done with the necessary minimum of functioning. Why do I say that? Because there is a possibility that a judge may request that his term expires before the time. What happens when that two-thirds majority is gone? There may also be a fatal event, etc. Exactly, we want to point out to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the formation of the Constitutional Court is quite formalised. Finally, the SPS would like to remind once again that 876 pending cases for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, general acts and other issues are already in front of the Constitutional Court, which is to be established, as well as 28 cases for the launch of the constitutionality and legality of individual acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10946	On the amendment, it is the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic. Total remaining time is 9.5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10947	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I wanted more on this amendment, in fact, to say something about it, too. I think it would be important for the public to know what this is all about. Article 50 of the Constitutional Court Act says - the procedure for assessing the constitutionality or legality of the general act is initiated by the proposal of the authorised applicant or the solutions for the initiation of the procedure. That's attitude one. Article 2 - procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality The Constitutional Court may initiate on its own, based on a decision made by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all judges. What's this about? On the side of what my colleague previously warned, how many cases will be when the two-thirds majority will be able to make the decision, given that 10 judges out of 15 will be elected, which is the knap, the two-thirds majority. I want to point to something else. I would like to point out the government's arrogant attitude towards MPs who submit amendments. How? Mr. Suleiman Spaho has submitted an amendment where he says - the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality can be initiated independently, based on a decision made by the two-thirds majority of the votes of all judges. The government said in its proposal -- it can run on its own. First, the public needs to know that no harm can come if this amendment is accepted, because they both say the same thing. Secondly, Mr. Sulejman Spah's amendment is quite a constitutional formulation, as Article 175(2). The Constitution says - The Constitutional Court makes decisions by majority of the votes of all judges of the Constitutional Court. Then, it is, by the way, something that National MP Suleiman Spaho insists on: "Decision to initiate an independent procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality The Constitutional Court makes two-thirds of the majority" etc. The government says it can't start on its own, it can start on its own. He says - I won't accept it, because this, as they say, is more specific. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you to explain here which is the more precise formulation the law has given. Secondly, is it possible that so much vanity has that one amendment, which does not disturb anything, is even more legal-technically appropriate, should not be adopted just so that the government does not say - the amendment of one opposition party is adopted?- I'm sorry. That reminds me a little of that amendment we've been making, that was, by the way, on the agenda on Friday, on Article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act. The 17th article envisioned the Constitutional Court's assessment of working capacity, based on the opinion of an authorised health care institution. We have so beautifully prescribed in the system that performs the assessment of work ability, i.e. loss of work ability, so we say - people, there is an envisaged procedure, exactly, who does what to the final artist, or first and second group of witches, who are the only ones who are authorized to bring a loss of ability assessment based on the previous procedure. Not even every doctor, not a commission that sees the validity of all the documents, can judge. I say, people -- it's nothing controversial, but we have pension insurance regulations that very clearly determine the procedure as to how the loss of working ability is assessed. The answer was that, roughly, the government did not accept the amendment, because the proposed law made it more orderly. In fact, I wanted to warn you of this kind of response from the government. This is more specific, as the government says. I expect the minister will now come out and give a strong explanation, which is why it is more precise, although it stands in the Constitution exactly as Suleiman Spaho suggested. What's this about, Mr. Minister? Does it really cost that much to get up and say -- people, don't harm the law, don't disturb me, don't get in the way of the concept, it's just legal-technical processing, we accept that amendment. The whole story is over. This is how you show, Mr. Minister, an arrogant attitude towards the MPs, and this explanation, and an explanation for Article 17 of the Law. That's something that, by the way, has become a characteristic lately, as is arrogant and unacceptable, simple, insolent, the government's response to the Justice Union -- we'll raise your wages if you fire 2,000 people. That's rude, that's terrible. I just want one more time, that was the essence of my outing for a pay phone, to warn the public of this attitude towards MPs and to the public, of course, and to state officials. It's not good and it's going on for a while, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10948	The word has a minister, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10949	I'm going to tell you all about all the amendments in the end, because I'm very closely following this debate. This debate is in particular and is discussed on each amendment in particular, but the law makes a whole and a large number of members are connected. Far from that, for the fourth or fifth time, I say it's about any spite or other than the belief that the solutions that should ultimately remain in this law are the best possible text. Among other things, this amendment is an example. This law has passed one lecturer, professional processing. I'm not professional about it, nor do I want to debate at all whether the order of words should be arranged in one way or another. About the meaning of every provision, of course, we're all invited to talk. I don't see why a single text, which went through the hands of a lecturer, which is competent to write legal regulations, or, to be precise, for the assessment of the way these regulations are written, should be changed. So it's not about anything other than believing that we have a good solution. Like I said, about the things you were talking about for a while, I'll talk about it in the end. The question of incompetence is not this nature, it's not legal-technical, it's the essential thing and I'll tell you what I have. I can say at this point that we are bound by the Constitution and that the Constitution has given certain solutions, which may not be so that they could not be any different, but the constitutional system we have is what we have and the laws have to work out a constitutional solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10950	Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10951	Very short, Mr. Minister. You said you weren't sure about this solution you suggested, because you called for a lecture. Right? I remind you that the Constitution has also passed the lecturing, and in it stands the decision to start on its own. Nothing more, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10952	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The minister has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the acceptance of this amendment by Mr Petrovic, in any case, speaks of the fact that the MPs of the SRS have made a certain effort to help as much as possible to improve the text in some of the provisions of the bill. In Article 51(1), after the words "based", the words "proposal or requirement" are added. In any case, the minister has noticed that there have been gaps and that this amendment should be accepted. We think it's in place, but I'd just add two or three sentences about why we suggest it. The minister well knows, as a long-standing lawyer, that any proposal addressed by the party to any court, or any state body, must be clear and precise, in order to avoid rejection and re-entry of the case. I think the Justice Minister's decision is in place. If you'll excuse me, I would just repeat, since there is a minister present at the session, both in the previous days and now, that we are proposing and asking to pass a law on the disciplinary responsibility of the holders of judicial functions, as it is in parallel law. This law on disciplinary responsibility exists in Germany, France, England, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and the United States, not to mention. Why do I want to point this out? I want to take advantage of Minister Petrovic's presence in order to keep this in mind, because there must be problems with certain procedures and certain decisions, wrong, made by individual judicial officials. In addition, the fact is that the enormous damage of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, out of the taxpayers' pocket, pays precisely because the decisions made by individuals, as holders of judicial functions, were illegal, especially those relating to the investigation or criminal proceedings. There are great damages to be paid. I am of the opinion that the Public Advocate of the Republic of Serbia should also be published and that a regressive suit should seek out all the damage caused by individuals, so that they can come to their senses and realize that they cannot conduct the procedure they think they are doing. They must lead and initiate proceedings only in accordance with the Constitution and the law, so as not to have such adverse consequences for the citizens and also for the state. You see, there is a law in France on disciplinary responsibility, but when a judge or prosecutor is elected, they are obliged to spend a month in prison. It means, to experience an atmosphere -- in which conditions people who are convicted maintain a prison sentence, or in an investigation, or upholding a sentence under a judicial court ruling. It attaches great importance to parallel law. I am trying to gather all this information so that I can know, about how it's regulated in the countries of the European Union, and also in Anglo-Saxon law. I especially want to point out that because the consequences of individuals in the judiciary are enormous, but only individuals; most of the holders of judicial functions are honest and honest people. Individuals in these judicial structures can no longer have the chance, nor the opportunity to do what they did - to harm the judicial authorities, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the taxpayers. It is necessary to approach the draft law on disciplinary responsibility as soon as possible. It is necessary that the Attorney General call and press charges against those who have made illegal decisions, so let the judge who has worked sloppyly and allowed himself to hold a man in custody for six months or a year pay, and the person shall be freed. Let this gentleman out of his pocket pay for the damage he caused by his unprofessional and, perhaps, malicious decision. I say that the majority of the judicial authorities are truly honorable and fair, but individuals should, however, be brought to order, and in re-election, do not choose those whose decisions in 50, 60 percent are abolished or modified. That's proof that he's not for the judge. I believe that this is known because there are lawyers from all parties, and also lawyers who have the opportunity to represent citizens, so they know what's going on in the judiciary, or the justice minister is a longtime lawyer and a lawyer, and he certainly knows all these things, which are torturing him now. So as not to torture him, let him listen to Serbian radicals - that certain provisions of the law change as soon as possible. There is an opportunity for us and this area to regulate and comply with the international standards and countries of the European Community. I wouldn't explain it anymore. I had the intention to draw attention, to take advantage of Mr Petrovic's presence, because I know what circumstances it is, and I know how important it is to re-election judges, or to pass a law on disciplinary responsibility, so that everyone is responsible for the work he is doing. It's the only way we can prove to the citizens that we care about having a rule of law, that we care about harmonising our legislation with comparable law and that justice comes into the hands of the right ones, because justice is a very serious thing; if it were left to everyone, it wouldn't do any good, the citizens would have damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10954	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The word for the amendment has a National MP, Željko Vasiljevic. Just to remind you, since the committee of directors has not accepted this amendment, we must declare this amendment in the voting day. Mr. Secretary has accepted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have come to say, about the same thing as my colleagues before me, Misa Petronijevic, Dr. Dimitrijevic and Mr. Krasic, said – how many legal, terminology words in the sentence can have consequences. I came forward today and because I found out about a very big problem this country is going to have because of the weather problems that are written, let's say, in the Constitution. I'll tell you what it's about, in short, so you'll see what kind of problems there are and how important it is to think about the amendments that seem to be formal, or how important it is just to correct the text. Here, in Article 69. The Constitution, in Section 4, states: "Invalids, war veterans, victims of war, are provided special protection according to the law". Because of one word missing here, and from the context of the sentence, you can probably see -- "military people with disabilities", I don't know why the legislator escaped the word "wartime", today we have a case that, based on the Law on Discrimination, three disabled persons have been sued in Novi Sad -- unlike the receipts that are called "other people's assistance and care", because between military people with disabilities and physical disabilities is a significant difference -- between 50,000 and 14,000. Three people with disabilities today in Novi Sad, in the Municipal Court, have filed a claim for damages, worth 500,000 dinars, each disabled, referring to this member of the Constitution and the Law on Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities. Do you know what a shame that is? If 70,000 people are disabled, 500 thousand dinars a year are the difference in incomes, it's 35 billion dinars. If the Municipal Court and the Novi Sad District Court accept this lawsuit and bring a positive solution, this state will have a half-billion-euro cost each year to replace this damage, and all because of the author of the Constitution who, probably from some other initiatives, wanted to avoid any word of war, war, etc., so did damage to this country. I ask you to think carefully about the amendments proposed by MPs, first of all, opposition parties, not to bring, because of one attitude, because of one amendment, which we do not want to accept because it has been submitted by some radical or member of the SPS, the state in a situation that is causing it to bear great costs and great difficulties. I warn you of this not only to draw attention to the acceptance of these amendments, but to think immediately after, in the course of the day, about how to solve this problem that will arise in Serbia's judiciary, which can cause huge damage to this country, as I told you, moderately - 35 billion dinars, if a positive verdict is made, or judgment in favour of these persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10956	Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is, on the amendment, a People's MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10957	The Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, of fellow Members and colleagues, MPs, the LDP Parliamentary Group has submitted an amendment to Article 54, and to remind you, Article 54 reads: 'In the process of assessing constitutionality or legality, the Constitutional Court is not limited by the request of an authorised promoter, or initiator. When the authorising officer, i.e. the initiator, gives up the proposal or initiative, the Constitutional Court will continue the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality, if it finds a basis for this.' The amendment refers to the position of the 1st member: ''Article 54(1) is amended and reads as follows: 'In the procedure of assessing constitutionality and legality, the Constitutional Court is limited by the request of an authorised proposing'. The government refused to accept this amendment, with a reason not to accept it for reasons it considers that, in certain cases, in the process of assessing constitutionality and legality, it is necessary for the Constitutional Court not to be limited by the request of an authorised promoter. We believe that the Government has not given an adequate explanation, because the reasons for submitting this amendment are also in line with the principle of celery. Our argument is, when it comes to a procedure initiated by the initiative of a specific entity, that it is quite understandable that the Constitutional Court is not bound by the request of the initiator. However, when it comes to a procedure initiated by the authorising officer, the Constitutional Court must be limited by the request of the authorising officer. However, when, in the general case, the Constitutional Court itself wants to initiate proceedings, it must decide most of the two-thirds of the judges of that court, Article 52(2), and if the proposed provision were not amended, it would be in a situation that the Constitutional Court, in practice, could extend the request of the authorising officer, which is, by legal nature, a new request, by simple majority, using the already existing procedure initiated by the other authorising officer, regardless of what we have heard here, that the Constitutional Court does not belong to the system of justice, but that the body is a sui generis and that, by nature, sui generis, one rules apply when the procedure is initiated by ex-officio, and other rules – when the procedure is initiated by the authorising officer. Let's remind you, Article 50. The bill allows the Constitutional Court to decide, by a two-thirds majority, to initiate the procedure by its own initiative, and, in accordance with the reasons given, if the authorising officer refuses to make a new request, then, the two-thirds majority is required, and not only the simple majority, or that there is no majority at all. That is why we believe that it is necessary to respect, or adopt this amendment, because this amendment of ours does not desecrate any of the rights given by the Proposal for this Law to the Constitutional Court, because Article 50 of this proposal gives quite the right, and the Constitutional Court can also act on its own initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10958	National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to the 54th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petrovic said from the post that he accepted the amendment from counterpart Petar Jojic. That's good, because it's a very quality amendment that improves the text of the law. On 14 November, we received the Government's opinion that the amendment would not be accepted, for the reasons in Article 51(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The draft law states that the proposal, i.e. an initiative to assess constitutionality or legality, also contains other information of importance for the evaluation. It was logical, Mr Petrovic, when you said you would accept the amendment of fellow Jojic, to say why you should do it. It means that someone who prepared your government opinion has overlooked something and that you understood and accepted it in the meantime, so it's normal to say it. If the government, five days ago, and you're a member of the government, explains why the amendment is not accepted, then you should say why you accept the amendment. It turns out it's only because we've called you multiple times since this morning, MPs of all parliamentary groups, that you should take part in this House's work at today's session, and then you're, like, estimated which amendment would be most acceptable to your free judgment. You have not been wrong to accept the amendment, because it is perfectly normal that a proposal or a request must stand in such a way as to decide, as this article concerns the proposal, i.e. an initiative to assess constitutionality or legality, and must specify what is proposed in the amendment of his colleague, Jojic. So, we expect, when you accept the amendments, to tell us why we're right, don't take it lightly or not, as we expect, and that's what we've been saying today, all day, to tell us why you think we're wrong when we propose an amendment. It is now on the agenda for the amendment to article 54, which was submitted by a colleague, Bozidar Koprivica. Otherwise, Article 54(1) reads: "In the procedure of assessing constitutionality or legality, the Constitutional Court is not limited by the request of an authorised promoter or initiator". A colleague, Koprivica, suggested that, instead of the word "initiator", "initiator of the initiative", the Constitutional Court is not limited by the request of an authorised proponent, i.e. the applicant of the initiative, in the process of assessing constitutionality or legality. Why did we endure this amendment? Because the initiator, what you wrote in Article 54, is a jargon expression and is not in line with our legal system, is not in the spirit of the Serbian language. "Initiator" and "initiator" in a legal and technical sense, it makes a completely different sense. The word 'initiator', in fact, cannot be used in the legal text and that is the essence of this amendment. Why don't you accept this amendment? You say - for the same reasons why the amendment of counterpart Goran Cvetanovic was not accepted as a member of 29. The argument reads: "The government does not accept the amendment for reasons which it considers the solution set out in the bill to be more precise. Also, the current law on the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal action of its decisions, in Article 24, states the term "initiator". Neither part of the argument is valid. You will again say that this law has been reviewed by a lecturer and has found that it is linguistically correct. Whether something is written in this law on the procedure before the Constitutional Court or not, it is not binding upon the adoption of this law, you will certainly accept it, but it obliges the Constitution, Mr. Minister. In Article 168(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Constitution, which speaks of the assessment of constitutionality and legality, says: "Every legal or natural person has the right to initiative to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality". If that lecturer of yours had also read the Constitution, then it would have logically concluded that, on the basis of this position, Article 2 168, and the law can only be called 'initiator', not 'initiator'. Mr. Minister, the fact that the lecturer is reviewing some text of the law is certainly not enough. First of all, every law you propose needs and must comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and only then be linguistic and grammatical in accordance with Serbian language and Serbian language norms. The lecturer can help you, but when the MPs, regardless of what he looked at and examined the lecturer, have some proposal through the amendment, you have to think about it and give your opinion. If we were to use that logic that this was examined by a lecturer and it's all completely linguistically clean, then you'd say -- this is past the Legislator's Committee, as it is already called, where Balinovac's director is, and they said it was all in accordance with the Constitution and the law, so you MPs have nothing to talk about. After all, a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has passed, and here you, gentlemen of Parliament, a text reviewed by Balinovac, a lecturer, a minister, so you can just press a green or red button to say whether you are in favour or against the bill. That, Mr. Minister, is not a good logic and not a good reason. We mean and assume that what you say is true, that it is true that this proposal, from some initial text to the final proposal, has passed all the stages that should have been passed, but let the MPs, who, as you can see, do their job very seriously, explain why an amendment should be amended by a member. I never understand, not only when it comes to you, but any minister, why don't you accept amendments that don't touch the essence of your law. So what you're going to do, essentially, in this law, can't change by writing "initiator" or "initiator". Accept something that is really obvious, that it is more appropriate for a legal standard to say the applicant of the initiative, not the initiator. We don't see any reason why such an amendment can't be accepted. Do not let every time we explain the amendment remind you that you should not be vain, that you are a minister, that you should hear the MPs, that you should think seriously about the proposal of the MPs. I see that your colleague Vlatkovic, your party colleague, is behind your whispers that you should accept the amendment and smile along the way. Probably, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, it will initiate on the Legislative Committee, and that is nice, but before that you will show that you are not only the Democratic Party's minister, as your colleague Milan Markovic demonstrated very uglyly. I remind the public of that. Yes, Mr. Stanimirovic, you think it's funny, because the SRS Verica Radeta must say that Milan Markovic acted the way no minister in the world would have done, that when his parliamentary group left the Assembly Hall, he went out, and he explained in the paper that he only did what his parliamentary group did. It's really unrecorded, and it's something that can't possibly happen to a serious man. You, Mr Petrovic, are a serious man, and we made Milan Markovic get a little serious on Friday, so he had to, in accordance with Article 111. The law on local self-government ordered the Belgrade City Assembly to annul an illegal and anti-business decision. We hope that this Constitutional Court of yours will work as well. I'm saying yours, because it's completely obvious that this is going to be a party court, and it's a two-poly, half of it is going to be DS, and half it's going to be DSS. What's going to happen to this third-third, nobody knows yet. As minister of justice, you should know and perhaps it would be good to inform the MPs and citizens of Serbia about when we can expect the establishment of the Supreme Cassation Court and their proposals for the Constitutional Court. The colleagues spoke today, and we of the SRS talked about what two-thirds of the Constitution meant, what is enough to form the Constitutional Court, how much the Constitutional Court is on the edge and how it can work for a short time, and for longer to be with a two-thirds Constitutional Court, it is certainly unacceptable. You know, in that situation, no judge should get sick, nor, God forbid, break his leg on this back, nor, far away, to die or to change his mind that he would never do that job again. You have to take care of it. Otherwise, the position of the SRS is that this supreme cassation court should not have even been brought into the legal system, as well as all these various special war crimes courts, I cannot bypass the War Crimes Court, this particular one, because we are the stand that regular courts can solve and end all proceedings conducted before the courts in charge. And you, just to keep up, I don't know who or what, to show how 'Europeans', as you like to say, you accept everything and you've accepted everything you've been offered, even more than that, you've accepted the formation of the Supreme Cassation Court. Since the moment you accepted it, it's been so long, and there's no sign of the Supreme Cassation Court. You know there was a collapse in the judiciary twice, because there was a period until the Assembly extended the deadline for forming that court, so in one period you were also opposition and fiercely criticised the situation. Now I don't know what situation you'll be in when we get back into that vacuum of functioning dishes and what you're going to say then, and that will depend on whether you're the government or the opposition. Now that you're in power, Mr. Minister, you might want to take this court strike a little more seriously. I think you should say, at the very least, that you disagree with your colleague, Minister Cvetkovic, who said that 2,000 people from the judiciary should be fired so that these others get a slightly higher salary. It is an insolence, it is something outrageous and the least we expect from the minister of justice, that is, what these strikers expect, is that, at least, you say that Minister Cvetkovic was insecure when he said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10960	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SRS Parliamentary Group has been trying in a constructive way to improve the draft law on the Constitutional Court, not because we would get a milder term – 'Constructive opposition', because the constructive opposition does not exist, but for the simple reason we care, when we have one draft law on the Constitution, on the Constitutional Law, not to be flexible, so that when the new parliamentary majority comes, we have to re-change both members and parts of the law, but to have one longer period of time enforce one such law. Unfortunately, we had an obligation that already at the first session, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, we have this draft law on the Constitutional Court. I wouldn't say again, for who knows which time, if we didn't have specific deadlines in this particular article in '55. Mr. Milovan Radovanovic submitted this amendment on behalf of the SRS, referred to Article 55, where it is defined that, at the time of the proceedings, and at the request of the contested General Act, the Constitutional Court may, before making a decision on constitutionality or legality, stop the proceedings and give the possibility to the General Actmaker that within a certain time, I repeat, within a certain time limit, remove the observed unconstitution or illegality. If, within a certain period, non-constitution or illegality is not removed, the Constitutional Court will continue the proceedings. Mr. Milovan Radovanovic's amendment, only a legal-technical editorial, does not change the essence of this constitutional court bill at all, but it is necessary to know what a certain deadline means, because a certain deadline can be quite flexible. If we know that this bill, under the current constitution, is not given in good time to the Members, and therefore put on the agenda, to discuss it, then we are sure that these certain deadlines can be moved many times. After all, we have at least a dozen municipalities in Serbia where temporary measures are in place. They came because, probably, they were legally defined, say, that within 90 days, no session of SO cities was held, that they did not bring a timely budget for the current year, but we have municipalities, such as the Leskovac municipality, where the Assembly of the Municipality was not even formed. These are completely different criteria when you do not have a congregation, but when for certain legal reasons there is a disbanding of the congregation. This is about a congregation that isn't even formed. Now to see a miracle, the people who had to form that congregation majority there, first of all, the DS, DSS, NS and G17 plus, now these same rescuers are trying artificially to hold parts of local self-government. Not to mention the conflict of interest, where a man who is a member of a temporary body, such as Nenada Cvetkovic from DS, and also the bank manager, and then conditions that the funds of public utility companies and all companies whose founder is SO go to that bank where he is the director, and that is with as many banks as there are in Serbia, is a headquarters from Nis. So it's not about a big bank with great opportunities, with small interest rates, but exclusively about a great conflict of interest. Earlier, when they were opposition, they rightly criticised the former president of Gojko Veličkovic municipality, that he was the director of the bank and the president of the municipality, and now they are doing everything they have criticised, only progressively, increased and much stronger in intensity. Not to mention that the elections, which are defined exactly, I mean, on a certain time limit, are obviously not respected, or are waiting for that deadline to be dissipated. Some laws have not been passed in time, and despite the Constitution, exactly the deadline, without talking about the budget for the Republic of Serbia, which had to be given to MPs by the 1st month, that MPs, after certain insights or consultations with professional and quality people who know the budget, above all, I mean graduate economists, can write amendments on time and discuss it. Not to mention, since 2003, we haven't had a report on budget spending, so for 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, because, apparently, the transparency they have promised in time does not take place, nor can we discuss machinations in a good way, bribery, corruption and crime. We have therefore tried only to legally change Article 55 in Article 55(1) to say, "unconstitutional or illegality", to replace the words "inconsistencies with the Constitution or the law". We also have attitude 2 where it is said - if, within a certain time, the non-constitution or illegality is not removed, the Constitutional Court will continue the proceedings. It is certain, because there is a certain time limit, if a timely general act is disputed, if that bearer is not responding, it must continue the process, but it is a matter of what time period, because it can happen until the next elections at the republican level and then, when it comes to the change of government, to define precisely when something has to be done, and already you have thousands of cases in front of the Constitutional Court waiting, and many cases still need to be formed. Because if it wasn't the Constitutional Court in office, many Serbian citizens who are damaged and who rightly want to react, to seek the protection of their human rights couldn't even file an application, a request, because the Constitutional Court was not formed. That is why Milovan Radovanovic, who wrote this amendment, asked for the words "unconstitutional or illegality" in attitude 2, to be replaced by the words "inconsistencies with the Constitution or the law". The essence doesn't change, although we have a grudge over the choice of the Constitutional Court judges. Everyone boasts that democracy should be followed, first of all, by the reputation of the United States, because there is a legal order completely independent, the judiciary, also independent, and we are proving that, like, we are pursuing such democracies that the longer period of time survives, but obviously, we are just looking at the part that suits us; all that has been proven to be the course of democracy, this process has not lived with us. Given that Mr. Zoran Krasic appeared on the same amendment, I would allow him to give an explanation for Mr. Milovan Radovanovic's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10962	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10963	Since we have established that the Constitution is not lecturing, then we will have to in the interpretation of the Constitution to go from the lecturing text of the bill. On the occasion of this amendment, Mr Radovanovic replied that the unconstitution is also a legal concept and called for Article 169(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. However, Mr Petrovic, Article 169. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates the assessment of the constitutionality of the law before its entry into force. It is a specific category, which exists for the first time, thanks to the new constitution, where a certain number of MPs may, before the law is declared, ask the Constitutional Court to declare the consent of the law to the Constitution. Only in that situation did they use the word illegality. However, where did you see that there was an unconstitutional word in the Constitution? She's not here. Where, in what member? She's gone. You can't find it, read me the whole constitution and find me the word "constitution." Article 169 paragraph 3, yes, non-constitution - yes, and illegality, the words 'illegality', no. Now, what, by Article 167, the first position, can the Constitutional Court do? He decides on consent, he decides not on unconstitutional or illegality, but on consent with, and it's all about consent with. In the existing law, the words 'unconstitution' and 'lawlessness' remained as a mistake, you should know that. Ask any judge of the Constitutional Court and he'll tell you. Now is your unique opportunity to make it right, and you don't want to make it right. Okay, you can do whatever you want, there won't be any big problems, but it'll just be a big problem that you devalue something that needs to be a good law. We have submitted 29 amendments, first of all, in order to improve this law, so that this law does not change at least in due course, except for some things that will have to be changed, about complaints, judges, prosecutors, etc. You do not accept it, and you know for yourself that, under Article 167, it decides on the agreement when it comes to the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of a general act, and when the Court decides, Mr Petrovic, when the Court decides, then the decision stands – it is determined that this member of that and that law does not agree with the member of the team and the team of the Constitution. Where a provision of a regulation is assessed, and someone has initiated a procedure because he considers that it is not in conformity with some law, then it is said – the Court has found that the member of the X Regulation or regulation does not agree with the relevant provision of that law with which it must be in agreement. For if the task is to establish consent, then the opposite is dissension, not dissuasion or illegality. But you didn't want to accept it. I don't mind that you didn't, it's only important to me that the professional public hears and that they can assess how you wrote this, why you wrote this. This law can make amendments, it can be good, I have to say, that's why we've submitted 20 amendments. We rarely comment on other people's amendments, because we don't want to spoil our initiative, which we started with this large number of amendments. So whoever was doing you the text of this bill probably never had a chance to see what the Constitutional Court's decision looked like. I'm talking, specifically, about the decisions of the Constitutional Court when an assessment of constitutionality and legality is carried out. Then there is an assessment by the system that only one question is given – is it agreeable? It's not whether it's unconstitutional, it's whether it's consensual. You keep an eye on it, and I see you're not doing it, one is the variant -- is it consensual, and the other is the variant -- is it the opposite of that? But when Biserka Zivkovic could have been the Head of the Secretariat for Law, this is a small mistake, believe me, compared to what we were experiencing in 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10964	Do any of the Members of the People want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56. The Constitutional Court Act, which refers to the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of general acts. Why did I submit this amendment? Simply, a man doesn't have to be a graduate lawyer to see that this member of the law isn't fully concrete. Here, I will read only the first position of this member, since the member is a little longer, to see the essence of my amendment. "The Constitutional Court may suspend, pending a final decision, the execution of an individual act or action taken on the basis of a general act whose constitutionality or legality is assessed" etc. Here, behind the words “execution, ” there must be a mandatory word:“ concrete, ” for it must be specified to which all concrete matters apply to this member of the law, in order to narrow down any possible space for its broader interpretation and for possible abuses. By accepting this amendment, space would be narrowed down for all those who are prone to disobeying the law, and there are plenty of them. Otherwise, if this amendment is not accepted, and unfortunately, we have seen that the government did not accept it, we will be in a situation similar to that we had in 2003, when in a known action "Sabbe" an enormous number of people were arrested, and it is against the law. The consequences of the "Sabbe" action today are all felt by the state of Serbia still paying compensation to those who are unlawfully deprived of freedom. One more thing, the "Sabbe" action has caused great damage and the image of Serbia in the world. Of course, you from the ruling majority are inclined to hold on to that, to the image of Serbia in the world, and you see that you contributed in a negative context. I appeal to the Minister present here to accept this amendment, because his acceptance would represent only one link in the chain, which would make the Constitutional Court a court that has a jurisdictional primate over all other courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10966	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10967	Mr. Petrovic, the government's response to this amendment is a little rude, that's what I have to tell you. We're talking about grandmothers, you guys about frogs. Our initiative on this amendment was that, by the very fact that someone has initiated the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, the Constitutional Court cannot make a decision to suspend the execution of future unambiguous individual acts, according to a law whose constitutionality is valued or by any other general legal act whose legality is valued. You don't answer that, but you're saying that it's possible that more individuals in the same situation, and we're not talking about that situation at all, we're talking about the fact that we're moving and what's going on in that process. Just to remind you, I have cited an example of the Law on the aid of persons indicted before The Hague tribunal. The law has been passed here. The "Red Orchestra" reported, written requirements for the launch of the constitutionality of the law procedure, Mladjan Dinkic said - the law does not oblige me, I will not pay anything, no solution will be made under that law. Within a few days, the Constitutional Court adopted a solution based on similar provisions in the existing law. He decided to initiate a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law, and until further notice, all the solutions that would eventually be adopted under the law are put out of effect. A man retired, a cracked Constitutional Court, has no final decision on the constitutionality of the law, but the Constitutional Court's solution continues to be binding. So, the coalition -- the government, the Constitutional Court, headed by G 17 plus, that's what I have to say, because of Slobodan Vukevic, finished the job, disabling the National Assembly. After a while, they organized a constructive meeting, before, apparently, a public debate, I went on behalf of the National Assembly, to represent the National Assembly. The meeting ended nicely, there is no final decision on constitutionality and legality, but the law does not apply. Something like that, the federal constitutional court has never worked. That provision, which it also has today, has an existing law that regulates the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal procedure, rarely when it has been used, provided that, with a proposal for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, an individual legal act has been delivered. The one who initiated the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality asked that, in addition to the initiation of the procedure, a solution be made as a temporary measure. Our request, by this amendment, is to prevent the adoption of a solution introducing these provisional measures, because these are temporary measures, unless the person seeking a temporary measure has delivered a concrete individual act which has been adopted on the basis of regulations whose constitutionality and legality are valued. That's your request. That's why we put the word "in particular." This article could also be recast, in order to oblige the applicant to make a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality and legality that, if requested and adopted by this provisional measure, he must submit his individual legal act, in order for the Constitutional Court to know about what and for what purpose the legal act imposes a provisional measure. We didn't want to change that for you, because then an even bigger problem would be, but we just put the word "in particular" in terms of identifying an individual legal act. In that sense, this right that you have stated in response, that if it is the same situation and with some other persons, that it can be passed on to these other cases, we do not dispute, we only ask that, when it is decided on a temporary measure, it must be present in the Constitutional Court and in the paper which is an individual legal act, which has to do with that law whose constitutionality and legality is valued, in order to prevent this abuse that has been committed. In the principle debate, we said, this is what we put up with to prevent the abuse that's happening. Why? Well, the National Assembly was disavowed. Among us, when the situation was with this particular law, I know the position of most judges of the Constitutional Court, the judges felt that one, possibly, two members should declare that they were not in agreement with the Constitution, that they should be reorganised and that law could be completed. But someone abused the procedure, first of all, Slobodan Vučetic, abused the procedure, abused the rights. When we asked the question -- how can you put out of force, to ban future individual legal acts, you said -- that's our authority, we don't care. Thus, the requirement was already to prevent the adoption of any individual act, and the purpose of the initiation of the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality is not to prevent the adoption of individual acts on the basis of that law. They therefore gave qualified conditions to prevent severe, irreparable adverse consequences that could occur, etc. So they give qualified moments and conditions that need to be met in order for the Constitutional Court to apply that authority to bring temporary measures. We are looking for a concrete legal act, not for future, imaginary, by number, by persons and by other means of identification. So, in addition to the proposal, if it requires a temporary measure, to deliver an individual legal act from which it is seen to have been applied, that the act was adopted under a law whose constitutionality and legality is disputed or questionable. That was our idea. If you think that all of this I said you can accept and express in another way, in some other way, instead of the words "in particular", the identified individual act, it doesn't matter, we agree. Find that formula, but the goal we want to achieve with this amendment is to prevent abuse in the Constitutional Court. These abuses always come from pressure on the side. Here, I gave you a concrete example, I'm not going into it, you were against it when it comes to the law, you were against that law, it's your right. Half G 17 plus voted for the law, half didn't vote for the law, and that's their right. The law was passed here by a significant majority of votes, I think, 170 votes. If there's anything unconstitutional, let the Constitutional Court say to remove it here, but not so rude, so corrupt, beyond the law. In order to prevent the abuse of the provisions of the law, we have inserted this word "in particular". If you, Mr Petrovic, have any other word for this to satisfy this need, we agree, I think the legal and technical order by the Legislative Committee is possible at this stage of the procedure and there is no problem. The goal is just to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10968	Anyone else want a word? The word is Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10969	Since there has really been some kind of misunderstanding in the explanation, I will answer before we finish discussing all the amendments to what Mr Krasic was talking about here. It's just, I think, Mr. Krasic, that because of one decision that I'm not going to comment here, which you were talking about, we have one question, as I would say, that the Constitutional Court might be acting in the future. Let's make this whole thing simple. Therefore, it is not disputed that if this law is passed and entered into force, the Constitutional Court will have the right to suspend from enforcement of the general legal acts to assess constitutionality and final assessments of constitutionality and legality, in cases where it decides to have needs. When it makes such a decision, therefore, when the Constitutional Court finds that there is a basis for suspending the general legal act before its final decision, there are two legal situations. It is possible that, on the basis of this general legal act, a certain number of individual legal acts has been brought in and no individual legal act has been adopted. Now we get to what we're talking about here. The government's residence is my belief that there is no dispute or dilemma between what you've exhibited here and the views of the government. Therefore, if, on the basis of the suspended general legal act, a certain number, one or more, of individual legal acts, the Constitutional Court may suspend the enforcement of those individual legal acts, one or more of them, or must suspend them. The adoption, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, of new individual acts is no longer a subject of the Constitutional Court or of an assessment by the Constitutional Court. From that moment on, these individual legal acts are illegal, there is no basis for their adoption, and therefore the view of the Government is that there is no need to put a new, special term 'concrete', but that such a formulation expresses the same legal intensity with this, Mr. Krasic, which you were talking about. I do not argue that there have been, as there have been in regular courts, decisions that can be criticised in different ways, which have been forceful and produced legal consequences, and could have been different. When, from the point of view of legal theory, those who write books or studies evaluate them, and find that these decisions are not good, they continue to produce legal facts. I do not argue that there were no decisions of the Constitutional Court which, in one way or another, would be subject to criticism of the legal theory and the professional public, but the formulation standing here fully fulfils the intensity of which you here, Mr Krasic, spoke. Therefore, in the case where, on the basis of suspension from enforcement to the final decision on the general legal act, no individual legal act has been taken, the assessment of the legality of those individual legal acts will not be subject to the Constitutional Court, because it does not have jurisdiction, but there are regular court cases which will, in their regular proceedings, appreciate whether these individual decisions are legal or not legal. I can understand when you have a certain decision of the Constitutional Court here to analyze and see its potential shortcomings, or to argue your disagreement with the way at some point the Constitutional Court, which still exists in this session, has decided on a certain issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10970	Thank you, Minister. Replica, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10971	It's hard for me to get into the details, because the subject has been missed. This is a situation where a procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of a general act has already been initiated, while at the same time requiring the adoption of a provisional measure, i.e. a solution to suspend the enforcement of an individual act adopted, on the basis of which constitutionality and legality are valued. So there's no suspension of the general legal act, there's no individual act. Mr Petrovic, in the case of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, this type of temporary measure was brought in 99 percent of the cases only if the person who initiated the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or legality has submitted an individual legal act brought under that law or a sublaw whose constitutionality and legality are disputed. In a small number of cases, the Constitutional Court has made decisions to suspend individual legal acts in the future, which have not yet been brought. They usually did so when they evaluated the general urban plans, so they tried to stop the rise of severe and irrevocable consequences. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia itself says it has rarely applied this to future individual legal acts. I tried to explain - a temporary measure only makes sense if it is known and if there is an individual legal act. If there is no such act, then the temporary measure cannot be passed, because it would be a ban on any future action that has not yet been done. That's what this difference is all about. It's not just a case with this law. It is that such a formulation allows the Constitutional Court to abuse the powers it has under the law and by the Constitution. The possibility of adopting a solution to suspend the execution of individual legal acts is provided for by the appropriate provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it's already foreseen, but it's said - in accordance with the law. It -- in accordance with the law, gives us the authority to specify it and say -- a solution to the temporary measure is possible, but must be brought in an individual legal act. If there is no individual legal act, there is no temporary measure, there is no temporary measure for the future, for future legal acts to be adopted in the constitutional assessment process. That's what the difference is. So, according to the law, states the Constitution. We use this authority from the Constitution and we say in the law -- a concrete individual act must be on the table to bring about a temporary measure. Unless there is a specific individual act, there is no temporary measure. It's not hard to understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10972	Do any of the MPs report for the amendment? (No) National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 57, and I have asked for a slight alignment of the entire text of the law to be done. It says in the very proposal for a law - the Constitutional Court will suspend the procedure, in paragraph 1: "when the General Act is in conformity with the Constitution in the course of the proceedings". That part's not controversial. The following text reads: 'a The Constitutional Court did not assess that due to the consequences of unconstitutional or illegality a decision should be made'. There I only asked for one editorial, which is that "unconstitution" and "unlawfulness" are replaced by the words "inconsistencies with the Constitution or the law". I guess, in the first part, it says nicely - in accordance with the Constitution. It is more acceptable and normal for the opposite to be - disagreement with the Constitution and the law, not - unconstitutional and illegality. The government my amendment refuses, with the reason that these legal concepts are already used in certain laws, so it does not need to be changed, as if the law is something that is done, such as some practice or something that preceded you, or what came before you in your time, so it does not need to be improved, improved, improved, even in that section of grammar. I can say that I am not surprised that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept this amendment. The reason for not accepting this amendment is that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority do not care much about this law. The Constitutional Court Act and the Constitutional Court's election of judges are the two most important things, Mr. Minister, which we should have done since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was voted on in a referendum, perhaps before the extraordinary parliamentary elections were called, because the elections are certainly a constitutional category and then RIK could not make such decisions and accept some lists of 10,000 signatures, some list of three thousand signatures, because it knows that it has a Constitutional Court and that it cannot do so. However, the then president of the Republic of Serbia, and since then, the president of the DS, has been more important to discuss the elections, so that the Democratic Party does not accidentally fall in the population. You called the elections, you held the elections, and after a few months you finally formed some congregation majority, so I was hoping that at that time, already at the first session, perhaps even before the budget, that it would be on the agenda of the Constitutional Court law, the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. That's not what happened. Why? It seems that the government could not agree, or the ruling majority could not agree on what kind of constitutional court we would have and what our constitutional law would be. To do that, from the ruling majority, you care, this didn't have to be the government's proposal at all. This could have been a parliamentary law -- to meet with all the heads of parliament, to make a constitutional court law, to be found here in the procedure, and to be voted by the MPs, by an absolute majority, if not unanimously. On our side there was a good will, but you didn't want to do it like that. Why? We'll see about that later. That's what you've already noticed about what kind of farce you've made about selecting a candidate for the Constitutional Court judges, that's what you can tell by that. A little later, we will discuss the list submitted by DS President Boris Tadic, the random president of the Republic of Serbia. However, that list, proposed by the president of the National Assembly to the MPs, regardless of what candidates have proposed by some parliamentary groups, can be called a farce. I call Farsom one of the most serious things for the functioning of the state, against which the Constitution should be protected, and the law, and the rights of citizens, because you have left it to be done not by professional people, but by a political likeness. You've abused, let me say, a bit of an opposition. I don't blame the opposition parties for making their proposals. The Serbian Radical Party, because it did not want to legalise, to give legality and legitimacy to the choice of such candidates for the Constitutional Court judges. Of those ten who are proposed, which I believe the entire list will be proposed to the President of the Republic, or the President of the DS, will choose five at will, as he thinks judges of the Constitutional Court should be appointed. Why? For the Constitutional Court, the ruling majority, especially DS, to be fully controlled, Mr. Minister. You can tell from the following examples. On that very list, which I didn't want to talk about at first, which is a list of candidates proposed by the president of the Democratic Party, perhaps on that list, and there are some candidates who are honorable and deserve the seat of the Constitutional Court judge, certainly most of whom are candidates who should not even be on that list, Mr. Minister, and especially not to be proposed by the President of the Republic. But in this case, it was proposed by the president of the DS, which is why I'm calling him now. It's about candidates for the Constitutional Court judges who are now judges, or judges in the old court, to say, the Constitutional Court. It's about Bossa Nenadić and Branko Curchia. How can two dishonest and immoral people be found as candidates for the Constitutional Court judges? They were proposed by the president of the Democratic Party. Are these the same judges of the Constitutional Court who gave you the right to start one of the most embarrassing thefts that can happen in a democratic country in 2002 and 2003 - stealing a mandate? Is that the thanks of the Democratic Party president for proposing them again and most likely to be elected by the Serbian Parliament as judges of the Constitutional Court? That war that you started since 2002, when you tried to hijack the DSS's parliamentary mandates, speaks of you, and what they are now with you is talking about them as people are. The fact is that since this Constitutional Court interpretation, which these two are responsible for, that is, stealing citizens' votes, ending will, and day and day, we have real wars in local self-government. Don't tell me you have nothing to do with it and it wasn't a political decision, when those people on the list of other political parties, come on, I won't say you're buying. Here, I don't want to be so rude, I can't prove it, but I have the right to doubt that you're doing it, because you're accepting them by hand into your own parties and your parliamentary and parliamentary groups. Aren't you an accomplice to that then? Yes. Yes, all that matters to you is power, power for privilege. That's why, Mr. Minister, you don't accept the amendments of the SRS. You and your party don't care about the Constitutional Court, you don't care about the Constitutional Court Act. You care that when you have to have a Constitutional Court, you have judges who will be at your will, who you will be able to manage, who you will be able to command, who you will be able to buy. You found all this, among other things, in these two candidates - Bosi Nenadic and Ranka Curcia. Their judgments, their morals and their cheeks are for sale.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10974	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment by MP Veroljub Arsic? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milena Stankovic and Slobodan Maras together submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10975	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 62. It's a bill of law. I will first read what the member of the law reads: "If it is found that the amendment of an individual act cannot remove the consequences resulting from the application of a general act which has been found by the Constitutional Court that is not in agreement with the Constitution, the general rules of international law, approved international contracts, contracts or law, the Constitutional Court may determine that these consequences are removed by vomiting in the previous situation, compensation or otherwise". We have proposed an amendment that would come down to the following - to delete the word "constitutional" in article 62. The reason is the same as the one you were just talking about with Mr Krasic, who you gave in an explanation of why the amendment is being rejected, or the argument given by the Government -- that the government does not accept the amendment because the opinion that the Constitutional Court should be given the opportunity to determine the elimination of the consequences, vomiting in the previous situation, subsequent damage or otherwise, so the solution in the bill is more consistent with the proposed amendment. We're just thinking the opposite. We think it's much more cellular to delete this word "constitutional", because of the burdens the Constitutional Court will have, or that this is out of the works of the Constitutional Court. We think the proposed amendment allows regular courts in Serbia to decide and that this is indeed more comprehensive when it comes to the Constitutional Court. So he's going to waste a lot less time if he doesn't take care of this and work faster and more cellularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10976	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MP Momir Markovic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was a little surprised by the rejection of this and some of the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Because, as we said at the beginning of the debate, this is one of the laws that is not prescribed from a European country, one of the draft laws that was made in the Ministry, so we have submitted these amendments with the intention to emulate, improve the text, not to leave inconsistencies, inconsistencies and voids in that text. Unfortunately, the practice of the Serbian government, the ministries in the Serbian government, and also this ministry, is that, mainly, everything that comes from the SRS is rejected, even if it makes sense and makes sense more sense than the proposed solution. I have submitted an amendment to article 63 on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, where I ask that part of the text be embodied and adapted. I'll read article 63 and a proposal for my amendment. Article 63 reads: ‘If, in proceedings before a court of general or special jurisdiction, the question of the consent of the law or of another general act with the Constitution, the general rules of international law, the approved international agreements or the law, the court will stop by procedure and initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of that act before the Constitutional Court’. My amendment requires that, after saying, 'Stop the procedure', the words 'the President of that court will' will be added, and then it goes on to 'open the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality or the legality of the act before the Constitutional Court'. The reason is very simple. We know, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, how judges of all courts are elected, from municipal to supreme court. We know the way we've been calling ourselves judge since 2000. We know that many, despite qualifications to have a law school and passed a judicial exam, had to have two qualifications. One is a party, a membership card, and the other is friendship with one of the ministers. I'm not talking about the current justice minister. I'm talking about some other ministers, who made their home friends for the presidents of municipal courts. Well, as that man left the minister's post, so did the president of the court, specifically, of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. In order not to let this part of the Constitutional Court law remain unarranged, so that it does not happen that no one knows who or how the judge is, may, or may not, by this solution, our proposal is that the President of the Court is obliged, on behalf of that court, to apply for an assessment of constitutionality before the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Knowing how the Constitutional Court judges are elected under the agreement, because, regardless of what we said, 10 candidates are proposed by the Assembly and elected by the president, 10 is proposed by the president and elected by the Assembly, and five by the Supreme Cassation Court. The fact is, thanks to the voting system, and of the five that we need to choose here, and proposed by the president, and by those five who will be elected by the President, and proposed by the Assembly, among the judges of the Constitutional Court will be, mostly, elected people or by a coalition agreement, by the system -- I order you, I tell you, I'll give you this as the Supreme Court judge, you'll tell me the one for the Constitutional Court judge, or by the will of an individual. We will be in a position for the Supreme Court judges to be the ones who, perhaps, should have been sent to prison, to examine their behaviour in the Supreme Court, to review their decisions in the Supreme Court, as they returned to retrial clean cases, where they were worth over two million euros. In particular, I'm going back to the Inji municipality of both the water supply and the sewerage, which was built by the Motorway Engineering. Since 1994, since the man contracted and finished the job, the District Court has made three decisions that the Indjia municipality is obliged to pay the man for the job he did. Three times, Slepcevic, the Supreme Court judge, returns it to a re-determination. Out of love for justice – not, out of love for money – probably. That's why I consider it. We messengers of the SRS, that no void can be allowed in which all will be guilty, no one responsible, or whoever was in charge if anything comes to the courts of general jurisdiction. If there is a time to establish the constitutionality of a certain act, not to leave the judges, but to oblige the President of that court, regardless of whether it is a municipal or county court, that the moment the court stops by deciding to seek an assessment of the constitutionality of a general act is the moment. It is only then that certain cases will not be able to break away for years and decades, and we have, Mr. Minister, and now in the judiciary cases which are 15 years ago and are not yet completed. As things stand, given the three-week-long strike in the judiciary, it seems to have been the initial chapel, well, here I hear that strikes are moving in the education, and the people are calling everywhere, and they are very pleased with the conditions the DOS government has been providing since 2000. You know, Minister, that's where your scribes have between 8,000 and 12,000 salaries. You know they've got up to 18,000 people working for over 20 years. You know that on the border of existence lives exactly that staff that carries the greatest burden in courts. The judge shall read the case and make a decision, with consent etc. Everything else, the administrative part, they work, exactly, those people. I remember when we were collecting signatures, so the signatures had to be certified in court, that the full burden was on these people, and that was on two or three people from one municipal court. Look at the lines in front of the counters. See how these people do their job with great honor and honesty. Find opportunities to raise those people's wages and don't listen to those who suggest you fire 2000, so the rest of them will have a higher salary. They may be able to get a higher salary, but they're just the parts in the courts that are stuck with your work anyway. There will be no one to work in courts, it will be a narrow throat and a brake for efficient work of courts. You need to find another solution. Don't listen to that minister who wants to fire, doesn't care about the Constitution and the law, if some things and some facts are in accordance with the law, then that's worse by the facts. Take care of your ministry, Minister, and make sure you resolve this strike to the satisfaction of those who are employed in your portfolio. It must be people who deserve a lot more respect, as well as a lot more resources than they usually get. Do not issue two or threem euros in head fees for those sought by The Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal will be shut down this year, at the end of this year, remains face-to-face and justice-to-face. In that regard, I don't mean you, but I think this special prosecutor of the Special Court, the special one, I don't know what. He's a special servant of Carla del Ponte and don't worry about his salary, him Carla del Ponte's fat salary. You can also do what you give him to stop, and he won't die hungry. What is, by the way, a general grudge from the SRS Parliament Club, is that these special courts, special prosecutors, where salaries are particularly higher than two or three times the salaries of other judges and prosecutors in the justice system, are absolutely unnecessary and real dissension among the employees. Everything that this special court does, and that special prosecutor's office, is for organized crime, is for war crimes, is for anything, can be done by any judge and any prosecutor of the district court, for which they are trained, they have enough practice. The only thing you're gonna miss is if someone doesn't have a DS, DSS, G14, or G17 plus, they're still 17 plus, and some of them that support you in this government. Any judge of the county court can judge the most serious crimes. Any district attorney can sue the most serious crimes. Another problem that, just in front of your ministry, to take advantage of, and to say it, opens, is the issue of applying the Criminal Procedure Act, where you transferred part of the investigation to the prosecution, so you'll have to receive a certain number of prosecutors. In many courts, I know, specifically, for the Fourth Municipal Court, because the building is on the territory of our municipality, so I see how crowded they are, there will be a problem and a business space, as well as training people, so I don't think you can, regardless of the time limit, do it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I invite you to adopt this amendment, it will only improve the text.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10978	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the 63rd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, this amendment is in line with what the member, or amendment to article 62, explained counterpart Maras. I'll just give you a few clarifications. Namely, Article 63. The draft law concerns stopping proceedings if there is to be an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of an individual law, which is in relation to the procedure in question and reads: "If the procedure before a court of general or court of special jurisdiction raises the question of the consent of the law or other general act with the Constitution, the generalised rules of international law confirmed by international agreements or law, the court will stop by procedure and initiate the procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality or legality of that act before the Constitutional Court". Our proposal for an amendment to this article reads: 'In Article 63, after saying 'in front of the Constitutional Court', the point is deleted and the words are added, 'if the solution to this issue is deemed necessary for a decision'. Our amendment was rejected by the government with reason not to accept it because the Court values the issue in the course of its proceedings, and for these reasons it initiates a procedure for assessing constitutionality and legality. Of course, the Court raises this issue in the context of its proceedings, but it should be pointed out that it is not always necessary for the end of the proceedings to be suspended if the procedure for assessing constitutionality or legality is initiated. Accordingly, the amendment to this content is also an amendment. The fact is that deadlines are the main drawback of the Constitutional Court Act. What can happen? It may occur that due to a procedure brought before the Constitutional Court, there is a standstill in the procedure, in accordance with the fact that the Constitutional Court does not restrict any deadlines. The Constitutional Court can consider this issue for so long to become obsolete, so we can have the "Tomislav Gacic" case or the "Pahomia" case, call it whatever you want, that what's obvious, because of old age, cannot be sanctioned. In this regard, the amendment with this content is also, and therefore we insist that the Government reconsider it and be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10980	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10981	The amendment is good, and the explanation is bad, because everything is wrong. When it comes to criminal matters, it is hard for someone to stop the procedure to assess constitutionality or legality. That variant is almost impossible. But, well, there's a need. What's this about? I believe, Mr Petrovic, that if you adopt Mr. Momir Markovic's amendment, this article in 63 can become extremely good and cover all situations. What's this about? The situation is now possible, if it remains a member of 63, as the government has suggested, that in this article the word "judgment" may mean an individual judge, a courtman. An intelligent judge can say that there is a kind of previous issue that needs to be resolved, and he is not authorized to resolve it. It may concern the existence of a right or a legal relationship, to fold the tab and ask the Constitutional Court to assess constitutionality or legality, primarily, the assessment of constitutionality, in relation to the law that the judge is to apply to a certain disputed relationship in a case. If that right is used by all the judges, they can, well, get rid of all the cases and say, "Please, we've stopped the proceedings, we're waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of this law." Then what happens? Could an individual judge have the authority to stop the proceedings because it seems that the law to be applied is not in accordance with the Constitution? That's why we put in the word "president" of that court. Now let me tell you that this is based on some solutions. For example, Article 12. The Law on Prosecution, 215, 219, which in some ways treat this issue of impasse, or Article 215 - when the judge does not resolve the previous issue, rather requires that the competent one solve the previous issue, and the issue of constitutionality arises as a previous issue, a kind of previous issue. We put the word "president." Why the word "president"? It would not be possible to accept so much freedom that any judge could file proceedings before the Constitutional Court, because there could be a blockade. I don't want to solve this, I think the law that needs to be applied is not in accordance with the Constitution, I'm asking the Constitutional Court to settle this previous issue. It's a question of law enforcement, whether or not the law even exists. He puts the case aside, the party screams, and he says, "I'm sorry, please, the Constitutional Court needs to resolve." When the Constitutional Court solves the question of whether this member of that and that law is in accordance with the Constitution, I will move on. So you don't get me wrong, I don't teach the strikers or the courts what they're supposed to do. I can't think of that. Furthermore, we have a problem with our courts that judges often have this manner of avoiding court practice. In our case-law, it's not so binding for judges, for a court of law. It is likely that this reform of the judiciary needs to do something about it, as it could result in very precise data on the quality of the work of judges. But this is not the subject of this amendment. So, the President of the Court can be the judge who informed him and who says - you know what, President, I can't do until the constitutionality issue is resolved, to ask - has anyone raised that question in the country? It's not. Do I need to run it? Will the President of the Court then refer him to court practice, how has the previous legal issue been resolved? What the President of the Court asks, what I've been talking about, is not an influence on the side or from the court on trial, it's one perfectly normal communication. So, let's raise the importance of the President of the Court, that only he can proceed with a case when in his territory, a question like this arises in his court. Usually, judges, when they find themselves in this situation, resort to different interpretations, so they will not apply this provision but go here, they are referred to a case from the district or supreme court, etc. As you've written, any judge can file proceedings before the Constitutional Court, and that is not the purpose of this provision. The aim of this provision is that this is another case where, among other things, it can be stopped by the procedure, in order to resolve the issue of consent with the Constitution or, if it is another sublaw, compliance with some law. What Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic proposed with this amendment was only a logical follow-up. I completely agree with some of the things you've listed here. It's supposed to be a condition to apply this, but it's no harm if at the end of the text these few words are inserted. They only clarify and strengthen that the judge must make it very precise for the President of the Court to prove that a constitutional court decision is necessary to resolve a disputed relationship in the ordinary procedure. I would suggest that you accept both amendments, the text will be far better than the one proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10982	Does anyone else appear on the amendment of the MPs Milena Stankovic and Neboja Rangelovic? (No) National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On item 3, above Article 66, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10983	Mr. Petrovic, for what you wrote about refusing, you really don't have the respect. I can understand that there are different interpretations, different opinions, but if you refused this for these reasons you wrote, then you did not read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, I must say so. Let's read together. The title, we're talking about the title, we're not talking about the member. Above Article 169. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the title - Assessment of the constitutionality of the law before its entry into force. These experts say it is a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the law before its declaration. As a reason why they are changing this, they fully state attitude 1 - that a group of MPs can initiate a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality before the law is declared. The declaration is the first instance of entry into force. You see how far-sighted the one who wrote the Constitution was. The declaration is only one action, the declaration is an order the President of the Republic declares. It's coming to your attention, the condition for you to publish it in the official messenger. I didn't read it. Why are you devaluing what the Constitution wrote? I'm never sure you had an honest vote for the Constitution. Is it possible, the author wrote - before the entry into force, and you say - before the announcement. Why are you tying everything up to your president? Tie him up for the eighth day since it was published in the Official Messenger, when it came into effect, rather than all for our dear president, for a declaration. Did you see in Section 2 what is said, when that decision is made to establish unconstitution – it takes effect when declared, because the declaration is only one action, and what is right means, it is an entry into force. Okay, I'm confused, I can't read the Constitution, I don't know what's written in article 169. I can accept anything, but take something from the comments of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so get it into the law. There's a professor of constitutional law sitting down, he writes a comment, and you take some of his comments, and you put everything in the law, and you say, "That's constitutional." Why? The professor of constitutional law wrote. Something keeps repeating here. When we wrote, we said, "They're lost," I guess they'll notice and correct. No, they keep falling apart. The declaration is an order. That means, when it's done here, Dean comes running across the street right now, to get the president there to sign the apparition, if he wants to, and if he doesn't, he can take it back, etc. We, by the Constitution, have the right to seek before the law enters into force before the president signs it, before declaring it, an assessment of the constitutionality of that law. The one who wrote the Constitution had in mind that it could end within a period prescribed by the Constitution and that it could not be completed, that it might take discussion, who knows what else. Then he predicted the situation that they had completed the evaluation before he signed the order, as well as having signed the order, so in the last position he said that if we were to prevent the constitutionality from being controlled, he could not, after the entry into force, be able to raise the issue. So, the declaration is just one store in something called a process as some law goes into effect. You've taken hold of one shop because of your dear president, and you've forgotten the entry into force because of our dear country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10984	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10985	Just one more element. Mr. Krasic brought out all the things that are relevant here. Indeed, in the Constitution it stands as he said, this chapter is called - the assessment of the constitutionality of the law before its entry into force. Mr. Krasic knows very well, but he estimated it wasn't bad to skip a little detail. So, of course, the law is passed by making it necessary, in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly, most of the votes, to adopt the law. It is true that certain technical actions are then taken and there is an important person there, because he or she signs that the text coming out of Parliament is indeed in line, i.e. it is identical with the decision made by the National Assembly. It comes to step three, that third step is that the President of the Republic, by his command, declares the law. It is a prerequisite that the so-proclaimed law could go to today repeatedly mentioned "the official messenger" to be published. The law enters into force after the publication of the Official Messenger, just after so many days and the day it is written in the law itself. Therefore, the entry into force is related to the publication, and the declaration is related to the signing of the apparitions by the president. The constitution, quite correctly, said that this was about the launch of a procedure for the constitutionality of the law before the entry into force, and then, in the first position of that member, it was defined that it was the right of the National Assembly that, by two-thirds of the votes of all MPs, it required the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the text, the constitutionality of the law, but only one moment, until the President of the Republic signed the order. The moment the president of the state signs the apparition, this right National Assembly can no longer use it. What the legislator did, that is, the legislator. The legislator is the Assembly, and the Government is absolutely right, Mrs Radeta, I agree, a legislator. So the bill promoter put the title - Procedure for the assessment of the constitutionality of the law before its declaration, because it is true and is not contrary to the Constitution. The Constitution has used a broader concept – that it is a requirement for an assessment of the constitutionality of the law before it enters into force. The declaration of law, logically and in real life, occurs before or before its entry into force, so that the proposal given to Parliament is accurate and in accordance with the Constitution. That is why, by respecting everything in the Assembly on this item of the agenda, we remain on the proposal that this text, just as it has been proposed, be given a statement to the Assembly and I believe that these arguments will be sufficient for the Assembly to make such a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10986	Thank you, Minister. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The government has accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 75th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On item 7, in front of Article 80, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the 80th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10987	I won't take too much of my time, because the explanation that we've given with the amendment is quite detailed and clearly explaining why a Article 80, paragraph 3, of this content is needed. I'd say a few principle remarks. Article 80 and Article 81 concern the ban on political parties. Similarly, the fact that such a provision in the law could provide broad opportunities for abuse, especially in a country of such political contradictions, was necessary for the legislator to elaborate further on the procedure for the banning of the political party. Here is only the position of Article 2 of the 80th in this regard, and it is said: "The proposal sets out reasons and evidence that requires a ban on the work of the political party, trade union organisations, associations of citizens or religious communities". There's no question about the procedure. In line with the fact that this approach to the legal regulation of this matter can give broad opportunities for abuse, we felt that there should be some clarifications. Of course, we believe that what we have given in the amendment does not give sufficient opportunity to elaborate and clarify the procedure, and that it is an article. The 80s and 81s, possibly, and by adding some members, had to be far better worked out, especially because there was no mention of where the political party was in the process and whether it was given the possibility of a legal remedy to the political party. On the other hand, it is seen that the almighty government can, whenever it wants to initiate such a procedure, in accordance with the provisions of Article 3, which give the possibility to exclude interested parties from the procedure. It is clear that when the government finds it politically appropriate, it can launch, or end any political party. So we pray and insist that a part of this matter be re-analysed and that the shortcomings we have shown are removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10988	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic jointly submitted to the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Vidoje Jovanovic submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10989	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 82 of the Law. It regulates the issue of a constitutional appeal which can be filed against an individual act or the act of a state body, and that is in paragraph 1. Item 2, which I have submitted to the amendment, reads: 'The constitutional appeal may be declared even if the legal means are not exhausted, in the event that the applicant has been violated the right to trial within a reasonable period'. The amendment reads - a constitutional appeal can be made even if legal remedies are not exhausted, in case the applicant is violated the right to trial, so the point is put, and the words "in a reasonable period" are deleted. The government, when submitting the report, did not adopt this amendment, explaining that it is in Article 32. The constitution regulated the issue, meaning a fair trial within a reasonable time. Also, I explain it's in article 6. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights also established in the framework of the right to trial justice within a reasonable period of time. I remain with this amendment, and I ask the Minister, if he can, accept it, since it leaves the right to the Constitutional Court to decide whether someone has been violated of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. So, with regard to attitude 2, he refers to erasing the word "in a reasonable period", because it creates a certain doubt and gives the Constitutional Court the right to decide on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10990	The amendment is also spoken of by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10991	It is good that this article is given one width and it is much wider than the existing solution in many European countries. This amendment, which implies that three last words – 'in a reasonable period', are cast out, only makes sense if the previous two words – 'right to trial', are interpreted as the right to a fair trial. This would be the best place to stand – the right to a fair trial. Why? Now I'm going to tell you, because of an example which is now an ongoing example in The Hague. When it comes to a reasonable period of time, his injury relates not only to Article 6. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights, but also for Article 5. One is the right of detainees, and the other is the right of the accused person. The right to a fair trial is likely 25 areas of individual rights, so in each of these areas there are another five or six specific rights. It's all about an assembly called "right to a fair trial." The right to a fair trial is guaranteed and protected both in the first degree and second degree, and in all possible actions. Now, with us, there is this fourth degree - in front of the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, The Hague doesn't recognize that degree, The Hague tribunal. So if there's been a violation of the right to a fair trial, then it makes sense to have this point 2. If not, then this formula on the right to trial should remain within a reasonable period, with us already having a practical problem with what a reasonable time limit is. We're having problems because we've violated our regulations. It used to be time-limited and now it's described. When it came to descriptive determination, you also had to accept some of the standards that apply to these descriptions. Did the defendant contribute? Has the prosecution committed a misappropriation? Has the court shown ineffectiveness because of its internal affairs? Let's not touch that now, but you know for a fact that these are all reasons that violate the law. Here, first of all, I think of the defendant, because it is most drastic, although this – a reasonable time limit, can also apply to litigation etc., and the fact that the judicial decision has not been carried out. We have these most in front of the European Court of Human Rights. So, in some ways, the ineffectiveness of the justice system, the entire judiciary, is sanctioned. Just to remind you, we've made so many good proposals to make our judiciary more effective, starting with the proposal that everything should remain in the jurisdiction of the court, and what needs to be done in the administration. I used one example. Almost 99% of property businesses arising from neighbourly rights in cities are essentially no longer a matter of property or litigation, but of administrative procedure, because the regulations that regulate it are public character and it is a public administrative matter. There's space and there's space in the new review of court practice. The judge cannot ignore the caselaw if the case law department has warned him that the draft decision which he made is contrary to the view of procedural rights, contrary to the case law in the application of the provisions, the appeal, the appointment, etc., and it goes beyond that, and the district court finds it, so it says - the case law is... etc. Here's a space where judges can be affected to uniformise court work. So if you're referring to the right to a fair trial, and I don't think that comes from this formulation, then that makes any sense. Otherwise, this formulation is good because there is a potential for something that is in the function of effective judicial protection and because the question is why a man is addressing the court for the protection of his rights if he knows that there is a well, that his claim and his suit has fallen – 25 years of litigation – for 10 years there has been no execution. It's a process that goes on, it's going on. You remember, two or three years ago, when Zoran Stojkovic was talking here, the professors wrote him the Law on a litigation procedure, that it was the most ideal thing, we only have two hearings, a preparatory hearing and a hearing for the main debate, and almost, it all ends. We put in lawyers, they're the only ones who can write a review, no one else, etc. Come on, tell me, did one item end up in two hearings? He's gone. The most illiterate lawsuits are filed by lawyers. Here, Mr. Petrovic, I was sued by Mladjan Dinkic, over some Ristic. He says I caused him severe immaterial damage. He showed neither his physical pain nor his mental suffering, nor his anxiety. He didn't press charges, there's nothing on the evidence, he didn't even propose his own hearing, and his lawyer put it together. Instead of bringing the court, according to the new law on litigation, the solution – the lawsuit is dismissed, we have to look at each other. Of course, he'll have to prove how painful it was when he was squatting on corn in the corner, hitting his head against the wall, and what physical and mental suffering were, what he was seeing with fear, etc. It's going to be a very interesting trial. But here, you see the new law, everything is epochal, everything moves, the responsibility of a lawyer, if the lawyer doesn't come along well, the court can drop the lawsuit, and then let him get justice to his client. Where's that? Prepared and next hearing over, that's where all the evidence is made and it's all over. It hasn't been registered in our justice system since the new law was passed. It's hardly possible. Therefore, if we need to provide protection because there has been a lack of efficiency in judicial protection, then what you have written has some resolution, and the amendment should not be accepted, but if the purpose of the amendment is to protect the right to a fair trial in its entirety and to show in good time through the constitutional appeal to be broken regardless of what the procedure is in progress, then it really makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10992	Do any of the MPs want a word about the amendment of MP Vido Jovanovic? (No) Just one notice. Today, the usual daily break will be only 14.30 hours, due to alignment with television transmission. I thank you for your understanding. National MPs Natasa Micic and Nebojsa Rangelovic submitted together to the 83rd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10993	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Socialist Party of Serbia submitted an amendment to Article 83. The idea was to potentiate the role of the Protector of citizens, above all, when it comes to a person who thinks he can file a constitutional complaint on behalf of the person referred to in Article 1, which is a person who considers himself to be an individual act or act by a state body, or an organisation entrusted with public authority, injured or deprived of human or minority rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. In fact, what is the essence is that we wanted to apostrophe, in a way, the role of the Citizens' Protector, which in different countries is different – the parliamentary Ombudsman, then the parliamentary representative for the administration, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the People's Lawyer, etc. We believe that he really has a special place in this civil society when it comes to the interests of citizens and their relationship with public administration. In a transition, namely in the civil society of the new world order, which is being realized today, citizens have a sense of helplessness in front of public administration authorities, especially when it seems illegal. There is a Protector of citizens designed as one factor of balance, i.e. to protect the interests of citizens in such a society, above all, from a bad administration. He works by appeal. It is imagined, then, in discussions, before the Law on the Protector of Citizens was passed, that it acts on the complaints of citizens, precisely because the public administrations, or authorities of local administrations and state administrations act directly on their legal and sublegal acts and threaten citizens' rights. In particular, this relationship between the power of the state administration, i.e. public administration and citizens, is unbalanced. This relationship, first of all, is in our country, which is still in transition. The SPS believes that – if citizens knew what transition is and what awaits them in transition, they would never vote for transition and bring themselves into exactly the position workers and workers' rights have today. The privatisation that took place after October 5th, we say, is devastating by the interests of, precisely, citizens, labour rights and social programs of those fired, and those expelled from work. The Socialist Party of Serbia has just been the patron of citizens while it has been participating in power. She worked actively to protect all human, minority, civil, worker and all other rights. Today, when it is not in power, when it does not participate in power, it is ready to find effective defence mechanisms when it comes to power again, to continue to take over its role. What the Citizens' Protector can do today, it is to get certain data, to ask all the authorities of the administration to initiate, even, their disciplinary and criminal proceedings, to criticise their decisions. What makes it special to everyone else is not only to see the legality but also the purpose of these decisions made by public administration authorities and local self-government. And the court sees the legality of these decisions. However, the court does not care about the purpose of the decisions, it remains there, and what really determines the interests of the citizens is this institution. Why the Protector of the Citizens? Because it's imagined that people can easily come to him without the formalities needed to address the judicial authorities. They can address him in various ways: fax, phone, direct contact. What is very important in these social opportunities, such as in Serbia today, is that they do not have to pay taxes and that they have no costs when they address the Citizens' Protector for violating their interests. We must not forget that he is independent, to protect citizens' rights and freedoms, to protect human and minority rights, to control the work of the administration's authority, to control the work of the Republic's public defender and other bodies and organisations, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority. Most importantly, it can initiate amendments and additions to laws and all other accompanying sublegal acts that threaten these interests of citizens, which are required by the Government and the National Assembly to launch. Here's an opportunity, for example, for pensioners, who today have over 1,000. The thousands that are below the edge of the existence, who are receiving their pensions below the consumer basket minimum, to raise a question with the Citizens' Protector about how pensions are coordinated today. Is that coordination enough for me to survive? The answer to one parliamentary question I raised in front of the SPS on pension coordination today is this: pensions are coordinated on the basis of 75% of the cost of life and on the basis of 25% of the profit movement. They're synchronised twice a year. At first glance - enough, however, what is not meaningful for citizens, it is that whenever this kind of coordination happens, they get 1-2% of pension increases, which means nothing to them. The state has increased their costs, for example, for Infostan a month earlier and given them only what they had previously taken from them. What the SPS was fighting for, and today it can't anymore, is that the alignment is done in relation to the average salary. Unfortunately, it's once a year. The question is whether citizens can survive with their pensions and welcome this coordination, because it is the right alignment that allows citizens, which allows pensioners to survive. This pension coordination is, as public information means, 12 to 14%, what they need. The second question is, why don't they make up for the damage? Who's gonna pay for the difference they haven't been compensated for during the year? Just for the end, one finding - over 400. Thousands of pensioners today have a monthly pension below 8,000 dinars, an increasing number of households living with pensioners, as many members of their households do not work, or are not able to work, but, unfortunately, live on these and these pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10994	Thank you. Do any of the MPs report for the amendment? (No) The 83rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10995	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SVM have submitted an amendment to Article 83. The draft law, on the basis of which the constitutional appeal could also be made by the national council of the national minority, if it considers that there has been an infringement or a denial of human or minority rights and the freedom of members of the national minority guaranteed by the Constitution, or in the event that they are addressed by a member of a national minority who considers that he has been violated or denied human or minority rights, without any written authority prescribed by the other positions of this member. We have submitted this amendment with the aim of harmonising the text of the bill with the Constitution. Namely, Article 14(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen to guarantee special protection for national minorities in order to achieve full equality and preserve their identity. When the state passed the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in 2002, it did so to its Article 23. Thus, it met with national minorities and allowed the National Council of National Minorities to declare a constitutional appeal when it estimated that human or minority rights were violated by members of national minorities, or if a member of the national minority were addressed without any written authority. We have proposed an identical text by amendment. The government did not accept this amendment, arguing that the opinion that a constitutional appeal on behalf of a person could not be declared without its written authority. Article 170. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which regulates the constitutional appeal institute, is not required that constitutional appeal can only be declared on behalf of a person, based solely on his written authority. In Article 20. Article 2 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has found that the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced. The bill, unfortunately, proposed the abolition of a minority right. The ruling coalition, unfortunately, does not want to understand that national minorities are a special category, a special layer of society, with special problems, special needs. When, as I said in 2002, the state passed the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, this fact was then taken into account. For this reason, it allowed national councils of national minorities to declare a constitutional appeal without any constitutional authority. The former, or old law on the Federal Constitutional Court, in its Article 37, made this solution possible. It is very interesting that this law, despite the fact that from 1992, the former regime, has given one right to national minorities that are being abolished today. It could be heard from DS representatives that it was another state, that Serbia had nothing to do with the level of human and minority rights that national minorities had in the SRJ or in the SCG state community. I think this attitude is very dangerous, for all known reasons, and completely unsustainable. Serbia is a legal follower of both SRJ and SCG. I think there is once again to explain why this has been accepted since 2002. In fact, a large number of members of national minorities fear opposition to state authorities, and the declaration of a constitutional appeal is a kind of "innovation" with state authorities. Members of the national minorities are afraid of it because they fear possible retortions by state authorities. Due to these facts, i.e. due to these circumstances, the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was then authorised to file a constitutional appeal to the national councils of national minorities, i.e. The bodies of minority self-government, I repeat again, without any written authority. If the Government or the ruling majority considers that what has been proposed in accordance with the Constitution, then it should have been proposed, in transitional and final provisions, to repeal the cited provision of the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, because there will be a conflict between the two laws. SVM MPs are convinced that taking one of the powers of the council is unconstitutional, and this is due to a cited provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which cannot reduce the level of human and minority rights. If this amendment is not adopted and the law is passed, I am sure that, together with 14 national councils operating in the Republic of Serbia, immediately after the Constitutional Court is formed, we will address the Constitutional Court and I am convinced that if the Constitutional Court does not work under the pressure of the DS, we will respect our arguments and put out of force this provision of the Constitutional Court law. Ms Jelena Markovic, in a debate on the constitutional court's candidates, told this speaker that the DS will defend national councils, that it will not allow the reduction of acquired rights, and now it is seen again what is the difference between words and actions when it comes to DS representatives. Again, the question is raised - how can members of national minorities sitting in the DS parliamentary groups and G17 plus vote in favour of a solution that deprives one of the competences of national councils? Not only that, it takes away the possibility for members of national minorities to be through their representative bodies, i.e. The national councils, they appeal to the Constitutional Court, without obligation to take the risk of being retaliated by the state authority, in a way, later on. This is against the interests of national minorities. This is undeniable. Someone step out for this pay phone and challenge my claim. Mrs Ana Tomanova-Makanova, who is the chairman of the National Council of the Slovak National Minority, sits at the DS Parliament Club. I don't know how she can vote against the amendment. for a member who directly weakens the possibility of representing interest and the Slovak national community. Simply, this law is completely contrary to the interests of all national communities, among them, and the community it represents. This is completely incomprehensible to me, because this is how the president of a national council knowingly damages one body that she presides over. Mr. Kuntic, who is sitting at the DS Parliament Club, is now out of the hall, I hope that on the TV screen he follows my presentation, the president of the party is the Democratic Union of Croats in Vojvodina who has been dissatisfied with the functioning of the National Council of Croats for years. They changed the three presidents of the National Council and the two presidents of the Executive Board, but they did not seem to realize that the ineffectiveness of the national councils did not result in the reasons for these people being replaced, but because they did not exist in the law of the national councils. Now, among other things, Mr Kuntic votes for one law, and against one amendment that abolishs this, otherwise, very rare jurisdiction, the specific jurisdiction of national councils. I think this is behavior, if not otherwise, then hypocritical. And a member of my community, Mr. Tamash Tot, is about to vote for this law and against the SVM amendment. Unfortunately, he's not in the O.R. either. I want to inform him in what business he's preparing to be an accomplice, voting in party discipline. Namely, a list of empty houses is being held in Vojvodina, a widely known fact. Mr. Jocic explained from this pay phone a few weeks ago that it was done for reasons why the police introduced the principle of sectoral work, the sectoral principle of work. Mr Kostunica, prime minister, staying in Budapest on November 13th, when the president of the Hungarian Parliament asked him why a list of empty houses was being held, he replied that this was done with the goal of the state having a record of empty housing in its territory. So, no sectoral work, but something else entirely, which is why we think that these MIP actions are against the law and against the constitution. I must say that this statement by the prime minister has further strengthened the fear of the national minorities that these actions are being done with some hidden intention. Unfortunately, it is more than obvious that the DSS and DS coalition is working well on this issue. I am referring to this proposal, or I am alluding to this bill on the agenda. Why did I say all this? I'll explain it right away. Many houses in Vojvodina are abandoned, owners live in Western Europe, Hungary, in various countries, so they have no information about what their property is. Of course, citizens, their neighbors who live near these houses, speak to us every day, provide us with information about the actions of members of the MUP. In this way, owners cannot declare a constitutional appeal because they are not even familiar with the actions carried out by the MUP. Neighbors, of course, can't in any way do it out of fear. National minority councils, which would certainly do so, at least as far as the National Council of Hungarians is concerned, will not be able to do so immediately after the Constitutional Court is formed, because in this way, by this law, that possibility is lifted by the ruling coalition. Therefore, the authority of the National Council to declare a constitutional appeal when it considers that the human or minority right of a national minority has been violated, without written authority, that right to file a constitutional appeal is lifted. I think this is done consciously, so that the possibility of national minority representative bodies will be taken to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court for listing empty houses. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, consider what kind of message you send this law, or by not accepting our amendment, to members of the national minorities. You take away their rights, and then you count on their votes. Think again and accept this amendment. In the end, another piece of information. The Committee on Justice and Administration did not support this amendment, however, it is true, but most of the members of the Committee were abstained when we voted on it, because everyone was aware that I was right, they just didn't want to vote against the government's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10996	Are any of the other MPs reporting for the word of this amendment? The minister of justice, Mr. Dusan Petrovic, has a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10997	In order to clarify, i.e. I think that the Members of the People's Parliament have a very clear idea of all the important things here, but it is possible for the public to get the wrong idea from the way the amendment promoter defended the amendment here. So the constitutional appeal is the right that is related to the possibility of every citizen of Serbia to seek judicial protection before the Constitutional Court, in those situations provided for by the Constitution and by this law. On the other hand, this law on the Constitutional Court establishes a very broad circle, with one general provision -- that other authorities, when the citizen's authority so powers, are entitled to initiate this procedure. Therefore, there is no error, and national councils have the right, as is the protection of citizens and other state bodies, because other authorities have the right, when authorised by the citizen, to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. We are neither near, nor at any time it is anyone's mind that national councils exclude the ability to conduct procedures under the authority of citizens, under the authority of members of national minorities. But why shouldn't other citizens, if national councils show that they are effective before the Constitutional Court in these proceedings, give authority to represent them when there is a suspicion that a right or freedom has been violated? According to the concept given by the Constitution, according to the manner in which the constitutional appeal is intended as a remedy and as an initial act, it is not logical that anyone on behalf of a citizen suspected or suspected of being violated by his right or freedom, without his authority, can initiate or lead the procedure on his behalf. The constitutional appeal existed, but in a completely different form and, collectively speaking, with a different power in the former constitution, and before the Federal Constitutional Court, these proceedings could be conducted in relation to the constitutional appeal governed by this constitution, and the law is now closer to the regulation. It has been said many times here, here, and a little while, about the possibility that the constitutional appeal should be initiated, that is to say, to initiate proceedings for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It's not possible. So, for a constitutional appeal, it is a assumption that there is some kind of procedure when it comes to the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Even logically, it is not sustainable for anyone, including national councils, to initiate these proceedings unless they are empowered by one whose right, or interest is at work, or by law and freedom, because the interest here is in a broader sense. The government does not believe that it is really about denying any Constitution of guaranteed freedom or rights and that national councils have full capacity, positions, functions and competences that they had under the Constitution and law. Like all other laws, this one must be in line with the Constitution by the end of 2008, and complete commitment and commitment to the government, I will now express a political position to protect not only civil rights but also minority rights. This government will do it. That's what she's done so far. I can say that on behalf of the entire government, we're completely open and willing to cooperate with everyone, especially with national councils to remove all the problems that exist, or they can appear, including what you're now talking about. If there is any problem, and the Minister of the Interior, and the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister, here, and I stand at your disposal, if you have any concern or suspicion that any right, the right of any member of the national minority -- we are all at your disposal to remove that suspicion. I'm sure even at the end of my mind the government isn't going into any process that could endanger the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10998	He's got a replica of Lasslo Varga's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u10999	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is difficult to replicate after such moving sentences by Mr. Minister, but I want to explain to everyone the essence of what this is all about. So, members of national minorities, along with DS, G17 plus and some other parties, for years, or decades, fought for some changes. In 2000 we reached these changes, and in 2002 national councils were given one right, or national minorities, through national councils. Now, in 2007, seven years after these changes, this right is lifted. This is the point. Of course, there are various legal explanations and this can be interpreted in various ways, but this is the essence. Mr. Minister said the government is ready to start talking about various problems, to get rid of various problems. I think this intention is dishonest, because right now there's a problem. Why create a problem where it didn't exist? Simply accept this amendment and then, at least in this small segment of the legal system, there will be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11000	The People's MP, Verica Radet, has the word on the amendment of the MPs Lassla Varga, Balint Pastor and Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11001	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS do not criticise the government's representatives without a truly valid basis. This time I must say that Mr. Petrovic was absolutely right when he explained why the government could not accept Mr. Lasla Varge's amendment, Pastor Balint and Elvira Kovac. Before I give some of our visions regarding this amendment, I would like to use the right, Mr. Albianic, to ask you, or to give us, in accordance with Article 226, the information - where Mr. Oliver Dulic is. Because last week I asked Mr. Radet Obradovic. Then we had information that he took a private plane, at the request of an NGO. Today we didn't even bother to find out where he was and what business he went to, but, behold, now there's a need to know, because I wanted to ask him -- did he talk to Mr. Tadic and did Mr. Tadic tell him if his candidate for the Constitutional Court Judge, Mrs. Bosa Nenadic, left her post in the Danube Insurance, or would he be a parallel judge of the Constitutional Court and head of the Danube Security? Now, I'd like to say something about the amendment of my colleagues from the Union of Duke Hungarians. I would first ask, i.e. to remind Mr. Varga and Balint Pastor, because Mrs. Elvira Kovac was not a national MP at the time - why they did not vote, they never explained this to the members of their national minority and other national minorities, when we passed the Law on the Ministry, for the amendment of the SRS - to form a ministry of national minorities. I don't know why you were bothered by such an amendment at the time, except it came from the SRS. And now, and every time, we remind the SRS to fight for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of who it belongs to -- whether to the Serb people or to some national minority. For us, all citizens of Serbia are exactly the same. That's why we don't understand, I'd say, malicious comments on the reasons for the amendment to Article 83. This amendment is, as the Government has explained, already contained in Article 2 83. The bill, where it clearly stands - that the constitutional appeal on behalf of the person referred to in Article 1, on the basis of his written authority, may be declared by a second natural person, i.e. a state or other body responsible for the monitoring and exercise of human and minority rights and freedoms. Only here, colleagues, applicants of the amendment, is it disputed whether or not written authority is required to file a constitutional appeal? Of course it is. How is it possible for someone in someone's name to submit any submission without having the written authority of that person? What bothers you, Mr. Varga, is that someone goes and lists some houses in Vojvodina, how do you know that it bothers people who own these houses? You said yourself that they live in Western Europe, in Hungary, that they live there for a long time and they don't know what's going on here. Perhaps those persons have addressed the competent authorities of the Serbian state, because they want to, say, give their houses to the state, want to sell them under this action of buying out rural households, or who knows what their intention is. How do you know it's not their wish? And even if it isn't, the authorities can do it, because I'm back on your discussion, these people haven't used those houses in a long time. So maybe these houses are in a ruinous state, and then, according to the Law of Planning and Construction, the competent authorities have to go through them and establish possible ruin and, even, bring them down if they threaten or threaten the environment. So, you obviously have other intentions, which you used to talk about here openly, not so long ago, and today you're trying to get it through, well, the protection of human and minority rights, completely unargued, by your colleague Varga, and completely unfounded both by the Constitution and by the law. You can't judge when someone wants the National Affairs Council to represent him or when someone doesn't want to. It is indeed the will of every citizen and well said by the minister, perhaps some citizen who is not a member of the national minority, if he sees that these tips are effective, that they work well and that they have good lawyers, will wish for their legal protection and will, of course, address them on the basis of written and signed demands. I'm looking at the clock, because it's only two and a half minutes away, and I'm gonna use it in that period. We have a court dispute, which has been brought to an end, and it refers to a bar fight in the Krtkovci. Someone wanted to turn this bar fight into an international conflict, as Serb people and the Croatian national minority participated in the fight, some serious physical injuries, etc., and then the public prosecutor, even, municipally, initiated criminal charges against the person of Serbian nationality and qualified the crime as a distraction of national and religious hatred. That case has reached the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court ruled it was the most common bar fight of a group of drunk people. So here, even the public prosecutor made such a mistake, and imagine that we leave it to anyone, without underestimating the organizations and councils you represent and against which we have absolutely nothing, on the contrary, we think there should be a ministry that would deal with special minority rights. But you didn't want to, we don't understand why. If a state prosecutor, or a public prosecutor, has stolen a mistake like this, because one of these cases was needed in the Hague trial against Vojislav Seselj, then we can interpret that it could be stolen and representatives of your councils, if they could, on behalf of members of the national minority, file any and various submissions. It's invisible, and it can't fit into any legal system, and even in our legal system, it can't fit that anyone can represent anyone. Here, there's a lawyer in this room and I'd really like someone to deny me, how can anyone represent anyone without his written consent? Therefore, this amendment should not be accepted, and the solution of the colleagues who submitted the amendment is fully contained in Article 83(2). It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11002	Since no one's answering for a word about this amendment anymore... You're going to replica, Mr. Balint Pastor, if I understand? You didn't mention it. Yes, it is. Replications, but only after a break. Just one explanation before I take a break. So the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is at the Interparliamentary Union Assembly, as head of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation. I'm taking a break and we'll continue at 15 hours and 45 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11003	Dear People's MPs, we continue our afternoon work. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11004	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not report to the Rules of Procedure, but it is, in fact, a replica to Mrs Vereca Radeti. When I explained the amendment, then I said that the coalition of DS and DSS works greatly when it comes to co-operation on the adoption of the Constitutional Court Act and the abolition of the powers of national councils to file a constitutional appeal without written authority, as well as the census of houses empty in Vojvodina. After the good words of Mrs. Radete at the expense of the minister and the government, which were referring to the reasons why the government did not accept this amendment, I can say that I am very glad that a new great coalition, a coalition of people's unity, is being created. The fact that, besides DS, DSS and G17 plus, and the SRS against this amendment, it's even stronger for us to believe that we're right. Of course, the question is again how can they explain to themselves members of national minorities, sitting in the benches of the ruling coalition, that DSS, DSS and G17 plus, and on the other hand, the SRS share the same views on the issue. The question has been asked -- how do we know the owners of empty houses bother that these houses are listed. I don't know if they mind, but it bothers me, as a MP and a member of the National Council of Hungarians. It's a shame, because I find this procedure against the law. This store is against the law. When we asked Mr. Minister at the Security Committee's meeting on the basis of which law a list of empty houses was held, he answered that there was no law, but that it was done on the basis of a concept of security. I think this minister's argument is very clear about the fact that we were right. As for legal grounds, of course, a list can be made under the law. In 2002, a census was made, and households, and apartments, under the law, but Article 1 of Article 1 of this Law found that the census would be implemented from 1 to 15 April 2002, and not 2007. On the other hand, the same law lays down that the census is conducted by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, not the Ministry of Statistics. It has also been said that the authorities can, practically, do what they do if the houses are in a ruinous state. That's true, but it certainly can't be done by the M.O.P. This ministry is very capable, but I doubt it's understood about the works of the building. Of course, he doesn't list the MUP house for building reasons, he certainly has other reasons. I've talked about it before, I want to say it again. The prime minister in Budapest, when he spoke with the president of the parliament of the Republic of Hungary, said that houses are listed because the state has to, or should have a record of empty houses. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question from this pay phone -- which are the objectives of the list of empty houses, and with what intention are these records drawn up?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11005	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11006	Article 101. Rules of Procedure. My colleague Laszlo Varga obviously didn't understand me very well. Of course it never occurred to me to praise the minister and the government. I didn't do it, but I said that the minister's argument about why your amendment cannot be fully accepted in accordance with the Constitution and the bill. I remind you, colleague, that Article 2 83 states that the constitutional appeal on behalf of the person referred to in Article 1, on the basis of his written authority, may be declared by another natural person, or by a state or other body responsible for the monitoring and exercise of human and minority rights and freedoms. Your amendment reads: "The constitutional appeal may be made by the National Council of the National Minority if it considers that there has been a violation or denial of human or minority rights and the freedom of members of the national minority guaranteed by the Constitution, or in case a member of the national minority who considers him to have been violated or denied human rights." This part -- "to be addressed by a member of a national minority if it is deprived of human or minority rights", is fully contained in Article 83(2), where it is said -- each natural person, i.e. another state or other body. The National Council is that other body that can do so and has no interference with doing so in accordance with the law already proposed, solely on the basis of written authority by a person whose human or minority rights are at risk. You don't have a legal basis, my colleague, for you to file a constitutional or any complaint on behalf of someone. Imagine what this state would look like, what it would be like to be a member of any body, if a member of any body could file charges, complaints, complaints, etc., if there was no authority to do so. You can't judge. You say you don't know if those owners are bothered to list their houses, but it bothers you. Who are you to bother you? You have no right to treat the owners of these houses in this way, I suppose you understand that. I don't mind, either of us, getting in touch with all these people, getting powers from all these people and then filing constitutional complaints on their behalf. That would be your absolute and legitimate right, but without it, you can't. My colleague, answer us, why did you and the other members of your parliamentary group not vote in favour of the SRS amendment to form a national minority ministry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11007	On the amendment, MP Svetlana Kitic, after that, MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11008	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members, I am reporting for the amendment of MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic to Article 83. The bill, which reads: ''In Article 83(2), in the end, the point is replaced by a comma and the words 'and the Protector of Citizens' are added.' In fact, I believe that the Citizens' Protector must in law be decidently cited as a state body which has an obligation on behalf of persons who cannot file a constitutional appeal on their own, on the basis of their authority, to file a constitutional appeal if those persons consider their human and other rights to be at risk. A citizen's protector has been elected to protect the rights of citizens and has no other role to play. It must therefore be clearly stated in this law, that is, in this article to which we have submitted the amendment. Take, for example. Next case. How can parents exercise their rights to a child's allowance when, because of a complicated procedure, they need to obtain as much as 19 documents to achieve this right. Imagine how it is for parents, and most often for the unemployed, when they have to collect documents for days, and for many, they pay taxes, and the child’s allowance is only 1,950 dinars. I wonder how the rights of a child to a carefree and happy childhood are protected here when and to a fundamental right what kind of child's supplement should be such a long journey? I am taking the opportunity to remind myself of two proposals from the SPS Parliamentary Group relating to the rights of children and the security of better conditions for their lives. The first proposal concerns the removal of VAT on baby equipment and food. The second proposal concerns the rights of children from agricultural households who have lost one or both parents. Unfortunately, the parties in power did not vote and did not support our proposal. The prime minister, Mr. Kostunica, even promised the Serbian patriarch that he would lift VAT on baby equipment and food, but that was only on paper, or on words. To remind me, before the Serbian patriarch's public address last year, the SPS MP group also submitted amendments with the same content on two occasions. You didn't support us then either. The Socialist Party of Serbia will remain resilient in its demands that the state lift taxes on child's equipment and food, to allow the family, regardless of the social situation, to provide their children with essential conditions for life, as are the fundamental constitutional rights of each child in Serbia. We are bound by an international document on the rights of children, to which you have obviously forgotten from power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11009	The word has been made by the People's MP Balint Pastor, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11010	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I don't understand why Mr. Minister isn't here, because I'd like to speak, primarily, to Mr. Minister. I am convinced, or I hope there is still a chance that the minister, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will accept this amendment, but if he is not present, then he cannot go out for this speaker and say, after my presentation, that he accepts on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia the proposed amendment. He can, of course, do so later, during the debate, so I hope he will accept, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this amendment. Before I say a few sentences about the amendment, I'd like to answer to Mrs. Verice Radet. It is true that I am not in the same parliamentary group where Mr. Varga is, but in the same party, in the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, so I must tell you that the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians voted in favour of your amendment when the National Assembly discussed the proposal for a law on ministries. It's not good that we didn't do it and that we didn't support that amendment, because it's just not true. You can take the listing, so make sure it's true what I'm saying right now. The SVM MPs supported the amendment, which was proposed to form a special ministry of minority rights. I don't want to get into what your party has proposed, but we voted for that amendment, and we didn't vote for this government's election, for four reasons. The first reason is that there is no mention of the ministry of human and minority rights. We believe that if this government has 25 members and 22 ministries, the minority rights ministry should also have, given the fact that one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia is made up of members of national minorities. Another reason why we didn't vote for the government's proposed composition is that this government of the Republic of Serbia will do nothing in the interest of improving the position of national minorities and we can very well explain it on examples. Let's just say, on Friday, I was talking about privatizing electronic media, and now I don't want to talk about it, because that question is not on the agenda right now. There is also a problem that there are virtually no members of national minorities, not in courts, not in prosecutors, not in police, not in customs, etc. We do not believe that members of national minorities are not good enough experts to work in these bodies. The fourth reason is that no law on the election and jurisdiction of national councils has yet been passed. The SVM has been in favour since 2003 for the adoption of this special law. Each national council has expired its mandate, and based on the current, former federal law, there is simply no re-election of these national councils. I am familiar with the fact that a task force has been formed at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to draft the law, but the government is very late in making this very important law for national minorities. I would like to tell Mr. Minister that instead of saying that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is willing to do a lot of things in the interest of national minorities, instead of staying on the verbal level, it would be good if we together started to solve these problems that affect members of national minorities, not only the Hungarian minority, but also other minorities. Speaking of addressing the problem of national minorities, I really do not understand why Mr Petrovic, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did not accept the proposed amendment. It is still not too late to do so and I ask him, I appeal to him from this place to do so, for one simple reason – unless the Government accepts this amendment or, later, the majority of the assembly, we would come to a reduction in the level of rights acquired by national minorities. What's this about? The national councils, unfortunately, do not have much jurisdiction, for the simple reason that the former law is still in force, federal, on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities, which is a good framework law, but lacks a law that would further regulate the jurisdiction of national councils. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by failing to accept this amendment, also reduces the little jurisdiction of national councils they have had under the laws of the Republic of Serbia so far. In Article 23(2) of the still applicable Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, it has been established that, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Federal Constitutional Court, national councils of national minorities are authorised to lodge a constitutional appeal to the Federal Constitutional Court, in case they consider that there has been a violation of constitutional rights and freedom of members of national minorities, or in case they are addressed by a member of a national minority who considers that they have been injured in their constitutional rights and freedoms. What's the point? This law on the rights and freedoms of national minorities is still valid, now already the Republic law, but this provision is inapplicable, for the simple reason that the Federal Constitutional Court no longer exists, because we don't have a federal state. So we've suggested one solution that existed in our legal system, which still exists in our legal system, but it's inapplicable. This provision should also be contained in the Constitutional Court Act, which the National Assembly will adopt in a few days. Otherwise, national councils of national minorities will lose one jurisdiction; not only will they not gain new powers, but they will lose one authority that exists. I have to tell Mr. Minister that I really don't understand why the government didn't accept this amendment, why it didn't accept a single solution that exists in our legal system and today. On the other hand, I must also say that there are 14 national councils at present, 14 national communities have formed their national councils, and if this amendment is not adopted, you can expect that the national councils of all these communities will ask the same question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why is it abolishing some of the competences of national councils, instead of proposing a law that would regulate the matter of jurisdiction of the national councils, which are the constitutional category according to the current constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11011	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11012	Mr. Judjevic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleague Balint Pastor, proposing an amendment that he and his colleagues submitted, he said at one point -- possibly that the government believes that minority representatives are not professional enough, so that... No, Mr. Pastor, the government believes that minority representatives in Serbia are naive enough, and that every day shows that the promises made in the election campaign are accepted as done, and when the rule of which minorities, mostly, helps, is established, then misused in the worst possible way. On many occasions, that's how it is. So it's not about whether the Serbian government has an honest relationship with issues raised by minority representatives, it's about whether you as representatives of minorities are capable of identifying the ruling coalition's angry intention to manipulate your voices, which has been doing this systematically for several years. I do not dispute the right of the ruling coalition to deal with politics in the way it thinks it is best, as I do with minority representatives not dispute the right to advocate their rights as they think it is best. Since you mentioned an initiative that is related to the amendment and addition of the Law on Broadcasting, which would make it impossible to sell electronic media in Serbia that provide, among other things, a programme in minority languages, to say again, because of the public, the following, and you know it, a respected colleague. Namely, the SPS and its parliamentary group have gone a step further on this and we have verbally agreed that it is possible to do this together, although the government has no such intention. So we have submitted amendments to the Law on Broadcasting, and this is the way: to stop the sale of all electronic media in Serbia, whose founders are local self-government, provinces and cities, because, but not to elaborate, we know why. A few days ago, the MPs here refused to consider it as an emergency procedure, and we will see, given that deadlines are running, what fate will be both initiatives. It was not difficult for us to vote against the Privatisation Act, which produced this real consequence, not only in the media, but in all other things in Serbia, therefore, to sell out or sell out everything there is, and then to criticise what they bought. Unfortunately, it's too late for that now. So, some people, who have neither cheek nor morality, have only big money, owners of everything in Serbia, in a way that threatens political life in Serbia, dictates rules of conduct for political parties in Serbia and has an idea to take over power in Serbia. So in Serbia, the final stage of privatisation is the tycunisation of politics. This will happen if someone doesn't wake up and sober up in the months to come, so two or three bosses will say, these can be MPs, and these can't; these political parties can have a candidate for president of Serbia, and that will be the one, and these can't even run, etc. It is fortunate that there are parties that do not have the problem, but there are some parties that cannot come out of this in any way without being satisfied with citizens, that they do not embarrass their political agenda and that the campaign is run evenly, democratically, that candidates place their political ideas in Serbia, so that citizens vote for them. Here comes the election for the president of Serbia and local self-government, for cities, for the provinces, so let's just pick ourselves up one more time and see who's funding who has political ideas, whose capital is running whose political campaign, and then let's say if there's two and two in Serbia, or there's five, or there's three, like today. Dear Mr Pastor, we will be very pleased to vote in favour of the blockade, that is, suspending that part of the Broadcasting Act that says that these media are privatizing, like all other media, because today in Serbia there is something that cannot be corrected anymore. The media buys people who have nothing to do with the media. They will organise an election campaign in the next election round as some of them or some of whom they work for suitably, and that is a pity that is irreparable. At least, the cheapest thing is when budgets are funded by a small medium. We're going to ask ourselves a question, how is someone going to inform themselves in Montenegro, because it's going to be easy in Belgrade, how in Žitoraja, Blac, Shop, Bosilegrad, how will citizens be informed when all this is private? It is a real consequence of the political delusion that it is possible to live in Serbia where the market regulates everything. We strongly oppose the concept of a liberal economy, where the market is said to be the regulator of everything that exists in Serbia. That's not true. If the market is the regulator of everything, then neither political parties nor democracy are needed, then there should be three tycoons that will say - this is Serbia and this is how it is managed by Serbia. So, both in this amendment and in others, it's not about declared freedom, it's about the way minorities exercise that freedom. I have to say, don't let him fool you again. You've been cheated three times. If you want, I can tell you exactly when it was, and you personally, Mr. Pastor, and the party you represent, and the other parties you represent here. So three times you've been cheated, three times you've been told that and that, and it wasn't any of that. Brothers, it's easy to regulate, it's where the voter's box is given praise, pocus, confession and apology, and that's where it's all regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11013	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. Anyone else want to talk to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment really opens up possibilities for a brief debate. Of course, I don't agree with the fact that someone can unauthorized, without prior authority of a natural person, write a constitutional complaint, but this list in article 2 is wrong too, because as soon as you list, you can drop someone. We are now in a position to ask, for example, the advice of national minorities, whether it is the authority responsible for monitoring and achieving human rights. The Council of National Minorities could be for minority rights, but its basic function is not to exercise human rights, because it would then be called a council for the exercise of human and minority rights. Could the advice, even with the authority of a natural person who has been violated by human rights, appear before the Constitutional Court as legitimate to write a constitutional appeal? Watch out, 'can any face', and when you got to the legal face, you started counting them. What's a law firm? Is she a physical face? Is she authorized to write a constitutional complaint for one of her clients? By reading this article, you could ask the question of ID and law offices or, say, fishing associations. Why couldn't the association of fishermen write a constitutional appeal for someone who signed his authority? It's a dangerous list. If you say – every physical person, then this member could read differently. So anyone who gets authority from a person who's been violated by a human or minority right, then that would be completely clean. So, it can be any physical face, and when we get to those who register, you start to single them out to those who can and can't. Why couldn't the congregation of the municipality, on behalf of a citizen, write a constitutional complaint? It's very embarrassing for you to say here – a state body can. Well, a man most likely complains that a state organ denied him or violated his human or minority right. In principle, state authorities violate human and minority rights. A neighbor can't hurt a minority or human right. You are now authorising the state authorities to write a constitutional complaint on his behalf. "When you're sued, the cadiya is here to judge you." I'd rather leave the possibility of a man speaking to anyone in writing, a neighbor - write me a constitutional complaint, not in writing, here, I'll sign your authority to write a constitutional complaint on my behalf, but also to the attorney's office, as well as to the legal advice in some municipality. Why would a legal council in the municipality, as an official of the municipality, not by constitutional appeal, for some right, human and minority law, which is threatened, be threatened by another organ? Why would the state run away from admitting every right to write a constitutional complaint? It's embarrassing that you're writing a constitutional appeal for someone who doesn't want to. Now you're predicting, you're prejudged by his desire to write a constitutional complaint on his behalf. You don't have to insist so much on this amendment. Is it hard for him to write you consent? Does one who proposes the law interpret that the advice of national minorities is also the authority responsible for monitoring human and minority rights? I don't know if it is, but when a minority's right is compromised, it can be a human right, and if you don't have it in your agreements with the state, you can also regulate that advice to protect both human and minority rights. Then he could be legitimate, signed by members of a minority or any citizen. Why wouldn't a Serb address a national minority council to write a constitutional complaint on his behalf? What can't? What does only a minority have to address the advice of national minorities? Let there be little persuasion, that we all work in this Serbia for the sake of all citizens of Serbia. So this amendment cannot be accepted from the point of view of constitutionality. What if this man shows up and says, "I don't want anyone to write a constitutional complaint for me?" I can't argue with the state. It'll do me even more harm. Let's say someone closes the insurance company, you write him a constitutional complaint, and he says, "Please stop, he'll take my house, because that's what they do." Or you'll give us the insurance company to sell it, or you'll sell it to whoever we choose. They're all violated rights and you know it very well, you know how Dinkic did it, and how Jelasic does it, and how everyone else does it. Nothing in Serbia is your property anymore. If you throw it around someone from abroad, some domestic rich guy, you're left without that property, and then you're looking for the night to sell it, at the price they're offering you, or you're even in custody, to take it away from you. This constitutional appeal, it is a new provision of the Constitution of Serbia, but as citizens of some Federation, we have always had the right to a constitutional appeal, so I would not overmark it as some new quality in the work of the Constitutional Court. Yes, in the work of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, but always some constitutional court in Yugoslavia, or in the state community, had to worry and have the right to file a constitutional appeal before it, because it is the only way to reach the international institutions that protect you. As long as you don't exhaust your opportunities in Serbia, you can't move on. When you don't have a Constitutional Court, then you can't go any further, because when you show up there, they say, "Have you finished everything in front of your court?" If you say - we don't have a court there, they can arrest you or put you in a asylum because there's no citizen of Europe who can say - my country doesn't have a Constitutional Court. Everyone thinks he's crazy because there's no state without a constitutional court. Now, there's a state that, since the arrival of DOS to power, has a constitutional court, has no Constitutional Court, has a Constitutional Court, has no Constitutional Court. As to whom it suits, what is the devastation of prey at a time when you are in power, so is the fate of the Constitutional Court. So, the constitutional appeal is a basic category, and by it you know whether you are a citizen of a state or not. Carefully with that constitutional appeal, give as wide a chance as possible to file a constitutional appeal, since in some cases it is still the only possibility for a man to come to justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11015	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Micic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the 84th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11016	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, our amendment concerns Article 1 84, which says that the constitutional appeal can be declared within 30 days of the day of the delivery of an individual act, that is, from the day of the taking of the action that violates or deprives human or minority rights and freedoms covered by the Constitution. I really don't understand why the government has rejected this amendment, with a reason not to accept it for the reason it considers that 30 days for the constitutional appeal is more appropriate. Article 84 is directly contrary to Article 170. The Constitution. Apparently, the legislator didn't take care of the Constitution, or there was a rough slip, which no one had read. So, in Article 170. The Constitution states: "The constitutional appeal can be declared against individual acts or actions of state authorities or organisations entrusted with public authority, which are in violation or deny human or minority rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, if exhausted or not provided for other remedies for their protection". I would ask the legislator, how he imagines that within 30 days, a violation of human rights is committed, to deliver a decision-making state body that violates human rights, to drain all possible resources within those 30 days, because of Article 170. The Constitution points to this, and to the Constitutional Court’s appeal afterwards. That, technically, can't stop in 30 days. I wouldn't take too much time, I would just once again appeal to the legislator and to you, Mr. Minister, to carefully read Article 84 of the Law, Article 170. The Constitution and our amendment, and once again consider whether it is celery to accept our amendment. We think it is and we insist on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11017	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted to the 84th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11018	The SPS is also proposing an amendment that is essentially similar to the amendment put forward by a previous fellow MP, with our proposal to extend this time to 45 days. First of all, we comment on the government's explanation, which says it does not accept the amendment because it considers that the 30-day deadline for submitting a constitutional appeal is more appropriate. The question is whether it is more practical for citizens' interests and whether they will be able to make their previous interests known to other judicial authorities within such short time. In fact, we would like to remind ourselves that the constitution is the highest act of one state and that, practically, it represents the people's will, the will of most political entities, and it is derived from all the laws and other sublaws. Also, these acts act directly on the interests of citizens, in the way and quality of life of citizens, and must be consistent with the Constitution, because, when that does not happen, they are victims of people, tragic human fates, either individual, or whole categories of citizens. Given the importance of the infringement and the extent of the injury, that it is the decisions of the highest rank, in accordance with Article 87 of the Constitutional Court Act, even those people or citizens who have not filed a constitutional appeal, but who are in the same legal situation, can address them and have the effect of a constitutional appeal. In accordance with Article 90, they may thereafter contact the Commission for compensation for damages, in order to reach an agreement on the level of compensation. Given that the SPS knows that the deadlines for the appeal, the review in the litigation procedure are 30 days, in a number of disputes it is 30 days, we believe that, when it comes to assessing the constitutionality of laws and other regulations and general acts, then from the area of the autonomous province, the settlement of jurisdiction in electoral disputes, banning the work of political parties, trade union organisations, associations of citizens, religious communities, violations of the Constitution by the President of the Republic, proceedings by judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, etc., it takes a longer time, or a more complex preparation and more complex examination of the problem, too, and the finding of an appropriate authorised representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11019	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MPs Natasa Micic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the 85th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposed to add a new Article 85a after article 85a. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11020	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment, namely a new article 85a, which reads: "Right to a constitutional appeal cannot be restricted by the content of the request of the constitutional appeal. If, in the constitutional appeal, the applicant does not indicate precisely on the violation of the Constitution or of the law, or of human or minority rights, and the Constitutional Court and the infringements observed, it is required to take a position on those infringements and make a decision." Therefore, the SPS considers that the formal reasons in judicial proceedings are very significant and cannot be avoided, that they have a very significant place and at the same level as the material facts, when it comes to violations of the law for which judgments or refusals fall, etc. However, it should be taken into account that the Constitutional Court is an independent and independent state body that protects constitutionality and legality and human and minority rights. In fact, this independent and independent body can be the last hope for a citizen to exercise his rights, therefore, it represents something other than regular courts where these formal reasons are very significant. In the event of a party's ignorance, the rule applies that public authorities, i.e. civil servants with special powers, are obliged to refer citizens to their rights and needs as easily as possible. In exceptional cases, when human rights have been flagrantly violated, when it is quite evident that formal reasons should not disqualify an incomplete constitutional appeal, especially the one pointing to the precise violation of the Constitution and the law, I think that, of course, it should be respected and taken into account both consideration and such constitutional appeal. In fact, in such exceptional situations, it is possible that it is being brought under the question of basic, or elemental values of our system, legal order or state. A team before, in such situations is really necessary. Perhaps, in fact, the authorities also answer that sometimes the violation of the Constitution, the law or some human and minority rights is overlooked, and that is by not responding to the Constitutional Court. It may not be an example, but certainly some analogy that exists in the clearly unprofessional relationship between the Constitutional Court of Serbia in the case of the abduction of Slobodan Milosevic, the former president of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. First, the law on criminal proceedings was harshly violated, as Slobodan Milosevic could only get out of the prison only by abolishing the decision on the detention of the district judge. Secondly, an extradition was carried out under the government's regulation, making the Constitution rough, introducing in constitutional and legal practice that a government regulation could be stronger than the Constitution. Not to mention the ethical dimension of the whole case, which has done unprecedented moral damage to the Serbian people and to all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the state of Serbia. It is hardly that any country in the world can and wants to do such damage to itself as, in its name, the authorities did, when kidnapped and kidnapped in such a way, Slobodan Milosevic. The SPS will never again, of course, allow for such a thing in the state of Serbia when asked. Otherwise, it must never happen to Serbia again, regardless of who is in power. For these reasons, the Constitutional Court should be independent and independent of legislative and executive authority and act according to what is the basic law, which is the Constitution. Each other's actions, there's a lot of evidence to that end, just giving citizens the chance to be concerned, because that way nothing in this country, if we have an addictive judiciary, can't be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11021	I thank my colleague. Anyone else want a word? MP Rajko Baralic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11022	Thank you, Mr. Judjevich. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SPS, counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic wrote an amendment adding a new article 85a, which Mr. Miletic has now explained very correctly. The government, as you have had the opportunity to read, said it rejects this amendment, because the solution the amendment offers is not complete. It's an explanation, and under it, everything can be fooled. Why are we, in general, and why did fellow Miletic write this amendment? Because when someone exhausted all the legal means, all the legal procedures, and when he lost all hope, when he had previously sold the field and the meadow, when he sold the best cow and to all the lawyers, when he had nothing to do and found no justice, and in his heart he knew he was right, he complained to the Constitutional Court. In doing so, he can have four classes of elementary school, or no school at all, which is possible, which is no sin, but is grief. So, we've just tried, by this amendment, that those who, because of ignorance, ignorance or poverty, do not file a complaint in a prescribed manner are not formally rejected, but are given another chance. As far as I'm concerned, it would be enough just to say - I complain that I have no place left, so that one serious state says whether Petar Petrovic, or Janko Jankovic, is a citizen who has such and such problems, who has been leading a ten-year dispute over something that can be completely clean for him, and which always ends up with various manipulations so that he can be harmed, so that the state protects him and that he gets out of this problem and says - well, the state of Serbia, good for you in the morning, Serbia, there's someone here who deals with poverty and their suffering. If this is not available, then one expert, as I hope, sits in the Constitutional Court, an expert who will be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court, will say - this is, for formal reasons, impossible to accept, this appeal is not based on this or that, etc. Will this citizen be able to appeal to the International Court in Strasbourg - not. They won't have money because judicial money in Serbia today, in regular procedures, is so much to question one of the most important postulates -- that all citizens are equal before the law. So whoever has the money to run court proceedings, he's a little more equal than the one who, when he sells one cow, has nothing left to sell, but justice suffers. So this amendment was written from the soul, it was written to explain that in the state of Serbia there are people who have been wronged, and they cannot prove it for various reasons. I can remind you, I've already spoken to you once, and Mr. Minister, you talk to us people, there's a lady who can't get the right to alimony, because they can't get the judicial authorities or the police to find her ex-husband, and even when they do, they say there's nothing there, and she has three or four firms in town and she hires 200 or 300 people. When it comes to the Constitutional Court, it should have what it says in the amendment that Mr. Tića Mihajlovic defined as a member of 85a, because the bastards and hohstuplers, those who do the blame for money, do this in such a way as to ensure that they can't find someone for five years in the city where they live, that they can't prove that they have anything, and every month 200 people regularly serve their salaries. It's the state we live in. Because of this context, this amendment is written and therefore we ask you to accept it, because if you understand what we have said, then it is celebular, and if you would strictly look at it, then the government is absolutely right. I'm just saying, there are people in Serbia who will never come true, they won't get justice because they don't have money, because there are obstacles to relationships, because there are phones that turn around, because there are threats that are done and because there are people who can buy anything for money and even justice in Serbia. I hope no one here wants it. On behalf of those who do not want it, Miletic Mihajlovic wrote this amendment and we ask you to accept it. No one in Serbia will have any of this damage except the bastards, corrupt judges and lawyers, I apologize, the largest number among them is not such, and others, above all, corrupt horrendous witches, who today in Serbia can say that it is black and white and that you have to accept it as a done thing. That's why this amendment exists, and that's why we're asking you to accept it, because otherwise we're doing a bad favor to those I'm talking about here, which is disproved, poor, unorthodox and terrified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11023	Thank you, colleague Baralic. Is anyone else answering for a word? (No) National MPs Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted the amendment to Article 86. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MP Milena Stankovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vladan Batic submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11024	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I remain in line with the allegations of the amendment, and I believe that the Constitutional Court should deal with the damage suffered by individuals for undue delay in proceedings. With that in mind, we've had a few very plastic examples in public lately. How to compensate for the damage to the boys who were victims of the sexual abuse of the monk Ilarion, in 2001, and in 2007? Because of the failure of individual judges, as you know, the defendant got away with it without any punishment. Now you can imagine how in souls, what wounds were left for these boys, for their families, for their environment, with which they started frustrations, with a scar, with a stain, with a wound that remains for all time, because some people without morals and honor decided to do so. Mr. Minister has done what the Minister of Justice can do. A few days ago, I said from this pay phone, an anticipating the event, that crows don't take their eyes out and that no one will be resolved - and they're not. Of the three judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, two were released, and once a warning was issued, and probably only because, otherwise, he is retired. Of the four judges of the municipal court in Novi Sad, all were warned. That's how the whole story ends, and it started with those unfortunate children who were victims of that violence. At the head of the Supreme Court, to which all members of the Personal Council belong, is Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero. We're going to another case of basic human rights violation, similar to the case of 'Pahomey'. Kids, their families, local public, trauma, frustration, wounds, and nothing. The minister has done what he can do again, but I'm sure it will end as in the previous case. However, from this pay phone, I also said who went to the County Court in Vranj as the President of the Supreme Court and at which meeting were then the municipal court president in Vranj and two other colleagues, Mrs. Snezana Janjic, again Vida Petrovic-Škero, who warned that the top of the government, mentioning the prime minister, was dissatisfied with the municipality court's dissatisfaction in Vranja over the Pahomija case. Then, since there was obviously resistance, I guess because of the local public opinion, the same woman, who's called Vida Petrovic-Škero, I asked the minister that question and I know the answer to that question, but I want him to be told to the whole public, she did so. a delegation. This means, simply put, that people would understand, that the case was removed from the Municipal Court in Vranj, because there, apparently, they were not obedient enough, at the Municipal Court in Nis, which ended the matter as it ended - all is obsolete, either freed or out of date. What about those boys' rights? And their families and their careers and their fates and their futures don't matter. Something else positive has been done by the Department of Justice. It has made an analysis of a number of cases of violations of human elemental rights due to delay in proceedings. That's why with this amendment, I wanted the Supreme Court to determine the compensation for the damage caused by obsolescence. The Department of Justice has determined thousands of cases, but it's impossible here, except to find out, just to let the public know. Who's responsible for that? It is he who is at the top of the pyramid of the judiciary -- again it is the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero. There's something else that the Justice Department has done. A catastrophic criminal policy balance has been established in Serbia. Penalties are pronounced like this, if they are not already obsolete or released -- or minimum penalties, or, even, by extraordinary mitigation, below minimum. He's not responsible for it, it doesn't matter what his name is, Mr. Petrovic or anyone else at the place of the justice minister or the justice ministry. This is the responsibility of those who are at the top of the pyramid of the judiciary, i.e. the judicial organisation. Who's that? Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero. For numerous violations of human rights due to delay in proceedings, which last for years, which is why the mass of people, longing for justice, never comes to justice. The only quick justice is true justice. I wanted to take this opportunity, for all this damage and for all that, to propose to the Minister of Justice to initiate the procedure for the resolution of Vida Petrovic-Skero. Because it's not worth dealing with individuals in some courts there. As our people say, fish stinks from the head, from the top. Let us remember that, at a time when she was the President of the District Court, because of the misreading of the Criminal Procedure Act, eight of the most radical killers were released from custody. Only one came back, son of a famous football player, afraid of revenge on the loose. Let's remember her reactions in the Bugsy case, devaluation of everything, obstruction of everything, minimising everything. If the prosecutor and Mrs. Shkero had taken it seriously, and her talkers at the top of the then judiciary, there might never have been a tragic March 12th. Until her favorite arrived as prime minister, she, along with the unions, was on Nemanja Street during a single day of their protest and protested against the then minister of justice, accidentally it was me, against the government of Zoran Djindjic. She led the unions in their protest, because the political ones who were in power at the time were not responding to her. Not to speak further, but in one of the few inspections, or control, or tours of courts, besides this court in Vranj, only the Special Court for Organized Crime has visited and, remember her words - should be abolished, both she and Zoran Stojkovic, the Special Court for Organized Crime, all judges can judge all cases. It can only be determined by those who may have passed the other side of the street by law school, those who ever had one criminal object in their hand would never say that. Imagine, the judge who spent her entire life in some outsider ward, or the litigation department, or anywhere, or the judge of a municipal court, criminal, etc. to judge! Can I comment? You can't leave the scene, ma'am. You can take your word for it, so you can contribute to what I'm saying. So again Vida Petrovic Skero. In her court, the Serbian Supreme Court, people are arrested for corruption, and Judge Vukkovic, but that doesn't matter. No responsibility, no responsibility. Thousands of people suffer for it. They suffer all kinds of damage, ethnic, moral, material, whatever you want. It is therefore necessary to give authority to the Constitutional Court to determine the damages. Remember one of her pearls, when they turned to damaged families damaged in the case of the Ibaric Highway, with a request to be prosecuted by the official duty of Milorad Ulemek Legion. They got the answer from Vida Petrovic Škero that there is no basis for it. Only later, after the verdict was abolished, was the subsequent action that brought charges against Milorad Ulemek of the Legion. We can talk about this for a long time. The problem is it's a story of justice in Serbia. I was in that role, and that's why I'm saying, for everything that's happened to the unions of the judiciary, I know that the minister is handcuffed, and that he's one little white man in one chain, and the others decide much more about it. All these outdated procedures, the disastrous criminal policy, corruption, crime, abuses, the political omen of some processes, are the responsibility of whoever is at the top of the judicial organisation, which is the president of Serbia's Supreme Court, in this case, Ms. Vida Petrovic Skero. By staying on the amendment, I believe that the Constitutional Court should have the authority to determine the compensation of the damage, because these unfortunate boys, and these cases are paradigms, you have thousands of such cases, characteristic. At a time when we tend to accept some European standards, to go towards European integration, when alpha and omega is the protection of human rights, those who abuse boys are freed, and judges that allow this are given judicial notice. Someone has to answer for that, at least to get out of that place. That's why I suggested, what I just said to my distinguished colleague, Minister Dusan Petrovic, to launch an initiative to resolve Vida Petrovic Škero. When she was elected Supreme Court President, of all in the College of Supreme Court Judges, she had at least the votes; the most had by Judge Zoran Perovic, so Judge Janko Lazarevic, and the last place was Vida Petrovic Škero. These others, apparently, were not politically alike. As long as we have such a judiciary, with a political omen and political resemblance, there is no word on the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11025	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11026	Mr Batic's amendment deserves attention, but the explanation does not match the amendment. Mr Batic has only one problem, which now demonstrates that he does not know what the justice of the verdict is. He told us very precisely that his sense of justice is above the Constitution and the law. All judges who judge in a legally prescribed procedure, anything that passes any possible instance, is not worth anything when it comes to Mr Batic, his sense of justice is infallible. In that sense, you from the Democratic Party can be calm, he has overcome you. So the amendment really deserves attention and that's a question that we can't solve today when we pass this law. There are two problems, and now I'm just gonna focus on the amendment, Mr. Batic. You can think, in your time, say, "Sabbe," that we're not going any further, 12 thousand people were arrested without a solution, with nothing. That's when the rights weren't violated, you know. Then nothing was broken, and then everything went right. It seems to me, that one of yours was writing some books from prison. Where there was a prisoner, what he was doing, who was visiting him, and it seems to me, in your time, there was a delivery. Looks to me like you're the one who got your prison assistant to sign. When you put everything in a mix, mix it up a little bit. Far be it from me to defend the President of the Supreme Court. We ended up with her a long time ago, when she entered the combination so that she could comment on which parties should be banned and which should be allowed to exist. She has long been told, if something is good in the judiciary in your term, the laurels will be taken by the minister, if something is wrong, everything will fall on the Supreme Court president, he found himself. You see, that's what happened, and that's what she was told at the beginning of the term of office, at the first session, when she wanted close co-operation with the Justice Committee. We said it was out of the question. You know exactly who's in charge of what, so let's stick to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, well, let me get back to the amendment, though. He deserves attention, but I don't think we can adopt that amendment today, nor can we have a proper view of the issue that's open. The fundamental question is whether the Constitutional Court has and whether it should receive the authority to determine the damages in the event of a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time or, possibly, another case. I think there are two major interferences. Why? Because the Constitutional Court would not be able to carry out a procedure to determine the extent of the damage. Too bad it would be some kind of proxy category. I think it's acceptable, in this case, that the solution that was proposed, and that's a commission that would, in some ways, determine the compensation of the damage as a kind of satisfaction, but far from the real compensation of the damage. I think I just need to, if I have to live this way with the Constitutional Court, through the practice of getting to something and using the experience of the European Court of Human Rights a little bit, because he has the opportunity to be in certain situations, I think he was a member of the 50th to which he calls, to judge. At this point, I don't think it's even understood that the Constitutional Court is in charge of a procedure in which it would determine the existence of damage, hence, later on, and compensation for damages. In order to make damages, he must have some kind of expert, and in this entire procedure before the Constitutional Court there is no art as a category, as a participant. There are expert consultants, professors who give some expert opinions on some legal issues, because the Constitutional Court, above all, deals with legal issues. He's hardly interested in facts, except as long as it takes to get the legal problem right. I think it's a big distraction. I don't argue that in practice, maybe, we should see how it goes, so, eventually, later on, change the law and introduce it and the law, but at this point, we'd make a regular court of law. The Constitutional Court cannot be that kind of court. I think that's why this amendment is unacceptable at this point, and that it should be thought about, whether the practice will show what and how it should be done. Legal judgments are not commented. Especially don't comment on them in such a rude way as you did, Mr. Batic. You were here to tell the story as if you were an eyewitness. You know what happened, and the court didn't accept it. I'd understand if you were a witness in the process, but you weren't a witness in the process. You weren't a witness in the process, but you're guessing. Based on what? Written by "Blic," he wrote, but you know there's an N.N. The perpetrators for some arson. That was in your time, Mr. Batic. Burned exhibits from Jasenovac. You don't know, Mr. Battice? There, you see, you're not informed. So, this disease is plagued by Serbia. Mr. Batic, you know the background of some actions. So, when you start with the hip-naked, like "Mile in Transition," then look a little bit at the "Sabbe" action, the delivery to The Hague tribunal, the warrant that you gave to your prison assistant to sign, to deliver the people. Pay attention to the political persecutions that went on. I couldn't really accuse you, but I could charge Bozidar Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic, Aleksandra Radovic, Zoran Zivkovic and others who made the lists, so there were criminal charges, charges, indictments or requests to conduct an investigation, only because he was a member of the Socialist Party, the SRS, etc. Mr. Batic, seven years ago, a request was filed for an investigation against me. I made a statement and there's nothing. Here, for eight years, arrest me at last, go once with that search. You think someone wronged my rights? Where's your "Banana"? He invented my own brother and I invented my only brother. How was I, Mr. Batic? How was Dragan Todorovic, Tomislav Nikolic, "killed the grandmothers in Antino"? I've put up with all the men, asking for protection from the state. Do you know how far it's come? Before we start. Mr. Batic, the procedure for that jeep hasn't been completed yet. For the sixth time, the Supreme Court annuls, returns to rejuvenation. Jocic can't even think about getting the jeep back. There's no more judge to decide. Be careful, don't make judicial decisions to comment. The worst thing is when a politician comments on a judicial verdict, and the worst thing is when a columnist journalist starts copying something out of a verdict, so the public does not overwrite everything from word to word, but releases some words, so it's filtering somehow, and then someone gets another picture to present something here. Of course, you have to fight to make sure no case gets old in court. All court proceedings should be fought in accordance with the law and regulations, and everyone should do his job. There are rulings where it has been found that the right of both participants in the proceedings has been violated. How? During the proceedings, the media reported everything and even crossed all possible boundaries; they had already completed the trial, they knew exactly who was guilty, who was right, who could count on protection, who couldn't count on protection. Everything comes from a value court of someone who believes he has the right to promote his system of values as a general value. With what right? The worst thing that happens in Serbia is when a politician comes out for this pay phone, he gives moral lectures. Leave your morals. Don't call it morale here, call the Constitution, the law, what's whole, what's justifiable, what's useful. Manipulate your morals. That's why I avoid it, no one knows what morals are, what my attitudes are. I stick to the Constitution, the law and something useful to most. The judicial verdicts are not commented, because if they were to comment, then, Mr. Batic, those who have been released could sue you. You could be sued for violating his right. His right is defined by a judicial verdict. So there's no doubt about it, and you're moving on. What do we do, Mr. Batic, with a public prosecutor who, after the deadline of relative obsolescence, presses charges? Why don't you talk about it? It's like you don't know that, so it just happened in one of those objects that you just commented on so authoritatively and painfully. Terrible, he didn't press charges. Let's slaughter all the judges. The prosecutor missed the deadline, but you're keeping it quiet. Why-- doesn't fit the stereotype that needs to be given. Of course, I'm avoiding commenting on the judicial verdicts, but if you're very resilient, then we're going to engage in that part. There is no more massive form of human rights violations than there is of Sabela. Look at the paradox, the greatest, during the state of emergency, when people's rights in custody are denied, we are admitted to the Council of Europe. Why was that done? To support the democratic forces. For what? Let me get this straight. What'd they clear out? There's a third, there's no third. Political background, spy background, etc. What are you not talking about, Mr Batic, when you're talking about a constitutional appeal, is it possible in this law of ours and whether it applies throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't we ask to change something about the constitutional appeal? We asked to share this later, you'll see the next amendment, we didn't want to touch this. Why? Mr Petrovic, tell these negotiators that the constitutional appeal implies the right of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not to consider some courts in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Those who speak – Hong Kong, half Hong Kong, two Hong Kongs, the form of essential autonomy, etc. We didn't want to get involved in that debate about minority rights, the one that talked about national minority councils. The man did not read the Constitution, which is the advice of the national minorities, but there you answered nicely, not to complicate things. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will be entitled to a constitutional appeal brought to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Right? That's it. That's why we gave it to you. This means that if his right is violated, he submits a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia in Belgrade. Why? Because Serbia is an internationally recognised legal entity and it is responsible for respecting human rights in its territory abroad. Why should we now intervene over the constitutional appeal, when it is a good solution? Just inform Kostunica and these negotiators that they have received another card in those talks. We, as members of the Council of Europe, have an obligation. We, as members of the UN, have a duty. We are also fulfilling this obligation through a constitutional appeal, which we are passing into law with that fact throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Talk a little bit about it, Mr. Batic, don't talk about judicial judgments, especially those where you were partying in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11027	Anyone else want a word? Right on line, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11028	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am pleased to learn today that Mr. Krasic is a spokesman for Vida Petrovic-Škero. It kind of fits my whole story and the state of justice in Serbia. Also, Mr. Krasic, you obviously don't deal adequately with terms. If you had said - an inadequacy, or what is in the process, or in the course, it may even be the subject of controversy. Like this, you've obviously broken pots. It's not a topic, and I don't want to do it, I can't do it right now, at the pay phone. Still, as a doctor of law, I need a little time to teach my younger colleagues what's what, i.e. certain legal institutes, but that's not my point either. So, I have not commented at all on any judicial or unlawful verdicts. I was talking, first of all, about the limitations of the procedure. If you think someone's going to shut me up, that I'm going to agree to bury the truth in some cases, which is very flagrant, because it's children, boys, you're not going to make it, you can sew any labels you want on me a hundred times. That's one thing. Secondly, I was talking about Mrs. Shkero's role in one of these cases in the Pahomia case, based on what the President of the Vranj Municipal Court said. One more thing, it was clear to me last year, when some accumulation lake was opened, or a reversible dam, somewhere around the Vranj area. The first news at the Public Service or, rather, to the public something else, was - Prime Minister and several of his happy ministers, behind their backs, Bishop Pahomia. Next to them stands the bishop of Pahomia to lay low, to bless. It's gonna be a big business project, big score. Furthermore, Mr Krasic, as a spokesman for Vidi Petrovic-Škero, you should know one more detail, since you mentioned the extradition, I presume, of Slobodan Milosevic. Do you know, Mr Krasic, who wrote the decision was called the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of which Slobodan Milosevic was extradited? Vida Petrovic-Skero. Just to keep you informed enough. The Sabela action, it's not the Justice Department's action, it's not even the Justice action, it's a police action. The constant twisting of the story of 12,000 people is not true. So many people (12,000) were invited to an informative conversation, about two thousand and something was detained, I don't have that information with me. If I told you that during the time since Dragan Jocic was Minister of the Interior, there were over 150,000 people in information talks, then we could play with the language of numbers indefinitely. It's Sabela's problem. Ask the citizens, 90% of the people in Serbia supported the "Sabbe" action and it is not a problem that the "Sabbe" action is started, but the problem is not finished. I don't know what the illusion of jeeps is about. I know about William Walker's jeep, but that's what you need to ask Bishop Fillarrett, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11029	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11030	Article 104, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Batic, I could agree with you on anything, but your beginning was wrong. Now I have to say something for the public. So it's one ability to manipulate, which is based on being given a lie at the beginning, and then on the basis of that lie, it builds on the half-truths and creates something that's supposed to look like the truth. Mr. Batiq, I'm probably the last man in this country you could say is a spokesman who sees Petrovic-Skero. I haven't mentioned her name in a year and a half from this pay phone. You know why, Mr. Battice? Because last year, on June 7, 8, the lady went to B92 and attacked Zoran Krasic for hate speech over Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Don't apologize, just so the public knows. So, ever since then, until you called me, her name, for principle reasons, I never wanted to mention it, and even when I called a Democratic Party a few days ago, which was so challenging her choice, I made a joke on the Justice Committee, and I said, "Aman, people, you're contesting whether she ever graduated from law school." How you forgot the love of old, political, of course, I mean it. Don't tell me I'm protecting Vida Petrovic-Skero. This observation of who's out front, who's in the back at some celebrations, who's taking pictures and who's shooting. Mr. Batić, you are a democracy, a Christian people, you are a representative of that party. It is not, I suppose, that Chad has turned you around so much that you are attacking the Serbian Orthodox Church!? You, as a Christian, belong to the people of Christian origin. I hope you don't mind the Serbian Orthodox Church now, do you? I know, Mr. Batic, many of whom are disturbed by the Serbian Orthodox Church. You know who they are? These are the same ones who are bothered by the Yugoslav People's Army, the Serbia-Montenegro Army, the Yugoslav Army and today are bothered by the Serbian Army. They used to be out of the army, and now there's more of them in the army. It's the same frat, Mr. Batic. So, when it starts with the wrong premise, or false premise, then the thesis develops later, so Mr Batic finally performed the thesis that "Sablje" was not there, and he went with who is the spokesman. I'm not even an SRS spokesman, we don't have it, we're all representatives of the SRS, but, Mr. Batic, concentrate when you talk about something and make sure you guess the truth a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11031	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11032	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, DOS, the one from 2001 to 2003, and this, as I like to say, redesigned, must establish, as Mr. Jovanovic would say, a unique system of values. You have to define yourself when one is good and likeable, when one is neutral, when one is professional, when one is corrupt, and when one has virtue. Now, it's like I'm involved in something, i.e. It's like I came from somewhere, so I haven't been in Serbia in ten years, so I'm caught up in a story that, like, has nothing to do with us in Serbia. It won't be. First of all, Mr. Batic, Slobodan Milosevic has not been extradited. Extradition involves very precise legal actions. He was kidnapped, the government of the Republic of Serbia has passed an unconstitutional regulation, and we know afterwards. So he's not extradited, because no one's being extradited by thousands of criminals, including representatives of the "earth clan", on horses, with dogs, with a car, surrounding the house where the former president lives. As we can see, now, for your president, you suggest that his lady be paid 80% while she's alive, that when she goes to the theater she has the right to escort, etc. We'll talk about it when the President's law comes, and we'll say how easily it slips into privilege when you're the government, and when you were the opposition, it seems to you that it's a lot for those who have power. It's another thing. With the same intensity to attack Nebojsa Covic, who went with the entire FMP basketball club to prevent an investigative judge from listening to basketball player Bulatovic, who raped a 16-year-old girl and whom Slobodan Milosevic, the only member of the team, did not sign that our ambassador is of good faith, because he is a rapist. You never mentioned it, and Nebojsa Covic was your first to, I don't know, this was the vice president on duty when your prime minister was killed, with a promise from America that he would be the president, as early as morning. You have to agree on what criteria are and when Nebojsa Covic was real, when he took 573 automatic rifles from 17 OUP Belgrade, which were later killed by some people in New Belgrade and Zemun and who were never returned, or when he spent 500 billion as head of the Coordination Centre, and we don't know where the money went, or now, when he trades human flesh, when he sells and buys basketball players, or when he's done a lot of other things that I'm talking about right now. When is someone a Democrats and when is someone right? Then when he serves DOS or when he serves the people? When's he right, Mr. Battice? These are important questions to discuss. You keep talking about raping boys, I apologize to the families, and what about the raped girls, they are, unfortunately, 150 times more in this country, and what about Covic, who was directly helping that man, who has not been arrested today, can walk quietly and play basketball wherever he thinks of himself under this hat of heaven, because the democratic government of Montenegro won't hand him over? These are the topics here. He was DOS's featherer, he was DOS's logistics, he was DOS's gunman and DOS's treasurer and he's a bastard who needs to sit on his ass.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11033	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11034	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't know, Mr. Baralic, I actually agree with you, I don't have any problem and I don't know why you're yelling so much, especially because of such things, at the time I was minister of justice, I was, Malten, in constant conflict with the top of the judicial organisation. Take press clipping and see, at that time there was criticism of the minister of justice - she interfered with the work of a free and independent judiciary, because I criticized such things, because people who were released from custody, eight of them, were the greatest murderers in Serbia, committed the most monstrous crimes and, when I raised my voice, you interfered with the work of an independent judiciary. Of course I agree with you and of course, that is what Minister Petrovic mentioned several times, the criminal policy regarding these terrible crimes of rape is disastrous. We had this case recently, when a couple of times accused of rape broke into a buty, raped a saleswoman, and sentenced to a year or two, got out of custody and did another crime. And, of course, that basketball player, what's his name, Nikola Bulatovic, should be not in this court, but in "a terrible court." As far as I know, he's been sentenced to five years in prison, that verdict's legal. He's not available to the judicial authorities to go to detention. No, it's a judicial verdict to the five years in prison of Nikola Bulatovic, as I read from the papers. It is not true what was mentioned, what Mr Krasic said about the government's regulation, although it is an old story and I would not talk about it because it turns out that I am biased. He annulled the federal constitutional court's regulation made by the federal justice minister, Mr Momcilo Grubac. No decision has been taken out of force, or a Serbian government regulation, allowing extradition. We, of course, did not, through the tycoon, "patriots, heroes and heroes" who were convicted of genocide in The Hague, give apartments of two ar, we did not collect millions over the tycoon, and then only the trumpeters were missing, when Stojkovic sent them to The Hague, such a joy. So these are the true things. Yes, Mr. Krasic, I am the president and MP of the DHSS, and I am proud of that, it is my personal commitment. I was baptized in church, raised in such a family, my children, too, not an atheist, bohemian, blasphemer, idolater, like those who now, suddenly become the greatest believers, receive the Order of the Holy Sava, take pictures in the front rows of liturgy, as believers, now making Orthodox mosque of Serbia. When I mention the sins of the individuals, they embarrass the Serbian Orthodox Church, which I respect, respect, appreciate, it is in the souls of all of us. She's part of our national being and identity. Those who entered the churches on horses, and excelled before committees, are today the greatest believers. Of course, I end up saying, I will always speak openly against the bishop who is accused and the whole world knows that he has been harassing boys, against whoever takes a kiosk and takes it to some hammer in Montenegro and says - this is a church, and he keeps a shameful moaning on the day of the robbery of Zoran Djindjic, against whoever takes a picture for an erotic magazine, on seven sides of an interview - this is my skipper, this is my throne, all gilded or gold, it is immoral, to whoever has an agency for a business escort, until 23 September 2000, on TV "Politicals", whose director was here the other day, as an envoy Mira Markovic, insulted anyone who points his finger at Slobodan Milosevic. Therefore, they are a disgrace to the SPC, for centuries, for tradition, for faith and history, and I will always speak it publicly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11035	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11036	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija has not been held today, and even if it is, I am obliged to continue where I left off 15 days ago. I will talk about one of those who, without the name and name alone, mentions counterpart Vladan Batic, who are, he says, untouchable, who represent the Serbian government and are serving in Kosovo and Metohija. One of them is Dr. Milovan Todorovic, member of the DSS, adviser to KIM Minister Slobodan Samardzic, one of the leading criminals in all respects, whom the government of the Republic of Serbia holds untouchable. Ladies and gentlemen, from Mr. Chairman of the Management Board of the Gjilana Health Centre, Bozidar Peric, I received a letter, just like the president of the Assembly and all the other vice presidents. It is my duty, under Article 226, to ask the president of the National Assembly and the resolution ministers to respond. I have repeatedly asked the question – what have they done about all these complaints, which are not only workers of the Gjilana Health Centre, but of the whole Kosovo Moral, on the behaviour of this man who has deeply stepped into crime, who is the head of the Kosovo-Pomorad district, one of the first Serbs to sell himself to the Shiptar occupation authority and one of the first to agree to be your minister in the Shipar government. You have to react because of the fact that Gjilana Health Centre in occupied Kosovo and Metohija cannot function properly. Namely, Mr. Peric, who addressed this letter, says that, following the law, the Management Board, appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, on October 10th, on the basis of a competition called, chose Dr. Jelica Krčmarevic as the new director of the Health Centre. I must remind you that a retired Colonel of the Serbian Army, then Yugoslavia, who fought for the protection of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, has spent days strike hunger outside the House of Culture in the village of Šilovo, near Gjilan, for the fact that this criminal is doing and doing what he wants and no one can stand in his way. These people, members of the Management Board, and all employees at the Health Center are asking for an urgent response from the competent state authorities. Now imagine a man who is a senior official of the DSS, the prime minister is from that party, the minister of police, and everyone is quiet. This is what he is familiar with, of course, and Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, but who should you address? It's just that people can't take this shit anymore. We talked this morning about a case that happened to a colleague of Stojanka. What do these people say? Every day they're harassed by one man, they can't do their job. Imagine a woman who can't do the job of the director, nor can people normally treat the troubled Serbs at Gjilan Health Center. I'm sorry, colleague Judjevich, I'm just going to have a piece of the letter, and you've got this as vice president, to read it. What, among other things, puts a burden on him? It's a huge abuse and he's counting, because he's such an unscrupulous criminal, there's an occupation, there's nothing anyone can do, the government gave me a solution, I'm here doing what I want, there's no control. Todorovic, they must know this, and all MPs, and the DSS, who sit here, and fellow Milentijevic and others, are the man who has indeed committed numerous abuses. Without a tender, he purchased equipment for the hospital from some Shiptara from Presevo, bought several cars with Kosovo plates and registered them to private faces. On behalf of the travel expenses of the Health Center, it takes 200,000 dinars a month. Not to mention that he hired whom and how he wanted, and fired others from work, whether doctors or healthcare professionals, nurses, and other employees. I need you to react immediately, I'm surprised, colleague, that you didn't do it. On Friday, when this arrived, I did not attend the assembly session because of the baptismal glory. I apologize to all the employees at Gjilana Health Center for having to wait. This is what the secretary has given me now, but in any case, they have to respond urgently to the competent state authorities. This man is for prison, not to serve as chief and to falsely present himself as director of Gjilana Health Center, and he is no longer. So, counterpart Batic, he is called Dr Milorad Todorovici is only one of the criminals in a series who steals and steals state money and suffers from our troubled people in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11037	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11038	The Honored Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, while LDP MPs, a constructive approach, seek to get as good as possible and as clean as possible the text of the Constitutional Court law, since there are probably no other ways, the public will be charged with the LDP and its leader, Cedomir Jovanovic. That, right now, has been done all day by Mr. Miskovic and I believe that the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should know our answer as well. "The LDP will be very happy to help Mr. Miskovic, he says, look for his truth about LDP President Cedomir Jovanovic, after all the mafia media, in any court. At the same time, we suggest that he run for office, alone or within a coalition of war criminals, war businessmen and war politicians, all those with whom he made his company and destroyed our country. We think they'd rather convince the citizens that they're better off living in Delta than answering pointless questions that, finally, they've been signing a campaign that has been leading to fundamental changes in the country for years. We believe Mr. Miskovic knows that unlike anything else, the truth cannot be monopolised. If he forgets that in his power, we remind him that before him, many of whom he quotes today, from Milosevic to the Legion, had failed to do so. LDP communications desk. '"Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11039	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, and Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11040	Article 104, Mr. Chairman. You know, I can understand that in the heat of the discussion, a man may be a little out of line, but, Mr. Batic, you said someone here was getting apartments, and there's a judicial verdict in The Hague that carried out genocide. Who were you thinking of? Say, aman, do we know who it is because of the genocide in Srebrenica honored by the apartment here? Which verdict, please explain. That's the one that's being held at our place today. In the heat of something, let go of something, it's going to take, say, "Today," it's going to take B 92, have to celebrate Mr. Batic, maybe at 7:00 you'll be on "Polygraph"; it's a dirty show, but every talker has to admit what he's lying about. Polygraph - a machine for lying. You're gonna be a guest on that rearview mirror, but the mirror's all upside down, you know. No, we're normal people here. A man comes out and says - convicted of genocide and got an apartment here. Who? Have you heard of such an example in the paper? He's gone. But Mr. Batic has one big problem. Now he's not listening, he's gonna be irradiating on his cell phone. Mr Batic, as a Christian, no longer wears a rosary. Who gave it to you, Mr. Batic? When did he give it to you? Who did you ask for a blessing from? Do you have something like a minimum of something in your life? Put a line like this, and say, "I am not going below that line, or I am not going above that line." Find some limits for your behavior. Have some respect. Here, I don't agree with Mr Petrovic about many things, but I don't think I can talk about things about Mr Petrovic. That's funny to you, but I have some level as far as I can, from where I can't go anymore. So I told you, don't get too far off this morale pay phone. As soon as someone points out their morale first and proves their morality, a great personality, etc., falls into logical confusion. Look how good I got you out. Cic, Mic, Cic, Mic, Mic, you came here, and I tell you – where's the rosary, it says – there it is, and who gave it to you, to whom did you heal your hand, from whom did you ask for a blessing and success in the election? Well, why are you criticizing the hand that fed you?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11041	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11042	I'm not sure I know which member of the Rules of Procedure reads LDP statements here, but I do have some questions, according to that same article. It's not funny, gentlemen. If the LDP gentleman, who read a campaign here by Miskovic against Ceda, did not notice, they have been campaigning against Miskovic these days, and in time Ceda and Miskovic hugged, while Miskovic did not suspect that Ceda, of the 7, took 5 million for kidnapping him. That's how they write the paper. Here, by the way, there's often talk and newspaper arguments are used. I don't know if I should believe that Chada was involved in the abduction of Miskovic and took 5 million or not? Anyway, it says there that Chada organized it with the Legion and Dusan Spasojevic. At the time, it was said here that some whiskeys were being drunk at the pool, that houses were collapsing to avoid any evidence, that at that time the vice president of the DS was hanging out with criminals, as he kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic. What is the essence of the matter here, when, based on statements from those same people who today call criminals, the type of Legion and society, tried Slobodan Milosevic in absentia, tried Radet Markovic, tried some other people who bothered them after October 5th. They were witnesses. Today, based on those same people's statements, it seems that no one is ready to judge Cedomir Jovanovic. I didn't hear a single testimony without being mentioned. Now I would like to refer, if possible, to the application and chairman of this assembly, yes, perhaps now we insist that Dragan Jocic come, to see if measures have been taken against Cedomir Jovanovic. I do not see the logic that the same people, it does not matter what they are called, sometimes they are witnesses, sometimes executors – in the case of the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic. It doesn't matter if they were the closest associates, and they were, they helped in October 5th. That's what Tim Marshall is testifying to, they're testifying on their own. These same people shot the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia outside the government building, at least that's what the court says. I wonder if Cedomir Jovanovic, apart from Neboja Covic, may have played a part in it. Of course, as they do, I abuse this pay phone, because I can't answer, so the law has been arranged, I can say anything here. Gentlemen of the LDP, you cannot build any more points on the dead Slobodan Milosevic, who was killed in The Hague. It's the essence of things. Your leader, apparently, has yet to be declared by the judicial authorities of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11043	According to the Rules of Procedure, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11044	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the rules of good taste require serious defence against serious accusations. Against a bunch of lies, of course there's no point in making a serious defense. According to these rules, I just want to say that we are not going to defend ourselves from these kind of co-op attacks, which are actually a bunch of lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11045	National MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11046	I have no intention of defending Miskovic, he probably didn't make his fortune...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11047	Tell me which member you're referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11048	Article 104, indent 2, I don't allow anyone to insult my intelligence. I don't know where the relations between Miskovic and LDP, or Ceda Jovanovic, are stuck. About the money? [[Intruder from the scene, Dragan Todorovic: The Eye of the Couple!]] Mr. Todorovic, you may be right. So, I'm sorry, please, but this is where the arguments from that press were used when you tried others. What are you campaigning against Miskovic? I understand why Miskovic is campaigning against you. Don't say a bunch of lies were told here. It will be a lie that I said the moment Cedomir Jovanovic is in front of the judicial authorities to prove that everything that has been presented in the means of public information and for this speaker is not really responsible. He calls people from the Democratic Party dear friends, and those who shot Djindjic claim that they may not be such good friends. These are hard words, but for the ideas sold on October 5th, for all the shootings and all the killings after October 5th, one day the truth must come out, let's see who did it, why he did it, who gave whom how much money he gave. That's why I'm calling on the LDP gentlemen to leave the SPS alone in the future, otherwise, at least for me, I'll be out every time and the charges will be harder and harder every time, and you're still saying it's a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11049	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11050	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, I think you've been obliged to warn the previous speaker not to present unfounded, flat-rate, incorrect accusations on behalf of fellow Members of the People's Parliament. You can't accuse anyone, Mr. Bayatovic. You have accused Cedomir Jovanovic of extremely serious crimes. I don't know if you are recommending yourself on behalf of your party as future coalition partner Vojislav Kostunica, as this is becoming increasingly clear. I see you're a little red, but there's no need. I don't know what made you blush, but you called on Minister Jocic. [[Intruder from the scene, Dusan Bajatovic: I am not ashamed.]] Isn't it strange to you, Mr. Bayatovic, that someone who belongs to one opposition party, regardless of its progeny, spends the most effort and energy to attack another opposition party, regardless of its determination, its policy, its programme, its beliefs, its principles, its progeny?- I'm sorry. There's something wrong. I don't know, maybe Mr. Krasic, maybe I wronged him, maybe he's not a spokesman for Vida Petrovic-Škero, but as you performed, Mr. Bajatovic, you're like a spokesman for Miroslav Miskovic. I'm not a member of the LDP, I'm president and MP of the DHSS. The whole controversy that has recently been created with Miroslav Miskovic is not at all personal. He's simply a paradigm of something that I think is contrary to beliefs, principles, principles, attitudes, LDP programs, regardless of what I'm willing to be their attorney and attorney. Cedomir Jovanovic will come here, and will explain to you, Cedomir Jovanovic, who testified for hours in the Special Court and reasonedly responded to everything they had to ask him, and to the Court, and to the defendants, and prosecutors, and all in a row. I don't know how this urge to constantly label Cedomir Jovanovic who, at the very least, is a fellow MP. But if someone is making a move against the Anti-Corruption Council, the Council for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Commission for the Protection of Competition, then I guess it is perfectly normal for those who hold onto these European institutions and values to think that it is a character of it. Personally, which I am not a member of the LDP, and you will allow, that is my right and my position, I have said that from this speaker to my colleagues from the DS, when the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Democratic Party, which has a majority in the government, means that the Government's institutions are, above all, the Council for the Combating Corruption, so when he, instead of protecting his part of the government, the Council for the Combating Corruption, is headed by the legal team, Miroslav Miskovic. It's all a phenomenal thing. I don't think it has anything to do with the personal, so I'd like to ask you to speak in those relations. Let me just answer my colleague Krasic. The issue is from Jerusalem, from Christ's grave, where I've been three times, but I don't want to talk about myself, nor have I talked about my ethical code and my system of values, and, Mr. Krasic, unfortunately, a general of Serbian nationality has been convicted of genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11051	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11052	Mr Batić, I am not a spokesman for Miroslav Miskovic. You stand behind the rise of Miroslav Miskovic, you and the system you created as DOS parties after October 5th. Miroslav Miskovic, like many others, was neither big nor important until the social system changed. So he's your baby. Don't laugh, I didn't hug him, but the one you're asking me not to mention anymore. As for what you're trying to explain, the SPS is someone's backup party, in blindness and desire to come to power, you don't know two things. We are against the government, but we are not against the state. If there's anything good for the state and for the people, then the Socialists will be for it. Since you laugh so wonderfully, only the SPS MP voted in favour of the the thesis that Miss Baraq and her commission or committee, as it had already been, were pressured. You'll come out, and you'll explain. If you ask me, do those institutes you built to control democracy work at this point in society, the answer is no. Mr. Batic, one more thing I'm going to tell you, Mr. Miroslav Miskovic has never given a dollar or a dollar or a euro to the SPS for the campaign. Let someone else make a statement about it. I would ask and warn you again, since you are a Christian soul, do not attack the SPS over the dead Slobodan Milosevic. If you want the controversy further, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11053	National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that I am this SPS MP who voted that the pressure was me, I must tell you that I really got congratulations from all the MPs from the Parliament Club and from all the SPS members, because they might think, courage, but I think - only elementary honesty to vote for what I heard from the President of the Commission and all the members of the Commission who were there. I am sorry that the MPs of the other opposition political party who were there were unable to find their own interest to raise their hand for people to have been pressured. I'm not going to say that they're being threatened, because no one there has said it, there's a significant difference between the threat and the pressure, but five of them, four of them explicitly said that they were being pressured. I have no idea who Mr. Miskovic is, I know who he is, but I've never seen him in my life, I've never met him in my life, I've never gotten any candy from him or any of the people I represent in this House. However, I must tell you one thing. I didn't vote for this because I "break the neck" of the company "Delta" and I think the company "Delta" should disappear from Serbia's market, but I voted for it not to be more expensive in Serbia than in Montenegro, Slovenia or Germany. I voted in favour of the commission's choice not to have oil more expensive in Serbia than in Germany, Slovenia or BiH, so that the citizens of Serbia would be better off. That's why I voted that this committee was under pressure, because all the people in that commission confirmed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-19-0.u11055	I think we can finish today's work. Thank you for your patience. Minister Petrovic, thank you. Bon appétit. There's a follow-up tomorrow, 10 o'clock.
