ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7872	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has already informed you that in the Belgrade City Assembly last Monday, seven days ago, a rough violation of the law, that the terror of the majority has been seduced, and that representatives of the Belgrade City Assembly who are in opposition are not allowed to propose a candidate for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly and that the election of the president of the Belgrade Assembly has been made in an irregular and illegal manner, past the Rules of Procedure. I then called on the chairman in the Serbian Parliament, I called on the government of Serbia, the Committee on Local Self-Government to react and to correct this act that took place in the Belgrade City Assembly. Please don't count on me this time. I'll quote you Article 192. The Serbian Constitution, where it is said: "The government is obliged to suspend the implementation of a general act of the municipality which it considers to be not in agreement with the Constitution or the law and to initiate a procedure for assessing its constitutionality or legality within five days. Under certain laws, the government can disband the congregation of the municipalities. At the same time as disbanding the Assembly of the Municipality, the Government appoints a temporary body to carry out the tasks of the Assembly, taking care of the political and national composition of the disbanded assembly of the municipality.' The government has been informed, the local self-government ministry has been informed of what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly. If the Committee for Local Self-Government could react immediately and ask the Belgrade City Assembly for any material related to a session held on Monday, I suppose in the same way she could not only, but also had to do so by the government, or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, to convince herself of the facts relating to the maintenance of the Belgrade City Assembly. I only own stenograms here, my stenograms, which I have authorized. Apparently, to this day, a complete stenogram could not be delivered because Mr. Ozegovic did not authorise his part of the exhibition. Nevertheless, only from this part of the stenogram can it be concluded that the session of the Belgrade City Assembly was held irregularly, that the SRS and SPS committees had warned the whole time that it was not working according to the Rules of Procedure. It is clear in the Rules of Procedure that when the president of the assembly resigns only at the next session, the resignation is found and is then moving towards the election process of the new speaker of the assembly. Although we only met about the president's resignations when the assembly began, unfortunately, we failed to convince the chairman that he should not continue his work until what should be done or the 20th session of the Belgrade City Assembly has been stopped, that the rest of the committees may, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure... (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic, please. I'm sorry, but I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure right away to finish this rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7873	Earlier, Mr. Vladan Batic, and then Mr. Dragan Todorovic, and then Mr. Martinovic, reported on his behalf. Please stick to the agreement of the heads of parliament on the length of advertising by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7874	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honorable Mr. Minister, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 226, and I'm looking for an explanation concerning this item of the agenda. Namely, the then director of the National Office, and today the minister without portfolio, Mr Dragan Gilas, on October 15, 2005, specifically two years ago, on this day, sent a letter to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the then and present, in which he urged him to present to the public who and how he runs the Public Undertaking of the Serbian Railways. Mr. Djilas says, "I am speaking to you this way, because Mr. Velimir Ilic, Minister of Capital Investments, has not been able to address the public for days, etc. Then he says, "I hope that, guided by moral norms and the idea of creating from Serbia an untapped society in which those who perform functions of public interest will be in the service of citizens... ". "That's why I think," says Mr. Gilas, "that you are the most invited to identify to the public who, as well as how the Public Undertaking of the "Serb Railways", since Director Milenko Sarancic presented a series of lies last week, misleading taxpayers, citizens of this country, whose money is being used by the railway company Serbia and finances." In that letter, Gilas asks: "How is it possible to sign a contract for the purchase of trains and locomotives from Slovenia and Sweden by emergency procedure, and to ignore only the competent Public Procurement Directorate? "The Director of the National Office argues that JP "The Railways of Serbia" sent one of the requests on January 31st 2005, with a deadline for delivery of one year, and the other at the end of July, explaining that traffic will be increased during the summer season. From locomotives and trains to today there was nothing, he said in a letter asking the question – how Sarancic concluded the contract on July 19th, and the answer from other bidders who were legally required to contact him and received only August 12th. Also, Gilas argues that JP's "Trains of Serbia" has announced a 2.8m-euro contract and signed a 3.5m-euro contract, as well as that he bought trains and locomotives from a company dealing with the sale of textile goods. It's that famous story of "locomotive over the butys," and it doesn't exist at the registered address. So I ask the question and I ask the minister without a portfolio to explain to us – is what he claimed today because of the co-habitation, or is the coalition no longer worth it? What about the moral code story today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7875	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Mr Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7876	We're not doing anything, we're trying to warn you in every way possible what you're doing. We're just trying to correct what you've done illegally in the City Hall. Not only have you chosen the President of the Assembly in an illegal way, past the Rules of Procedure, you have introduced a new place in the City Assembly, or in the Belgrade City Assembly. You've brought in the acting officer, the deputy acting mayor. I'm just trying to convince you in some way how crazy that is. You know that the speaker of the assembly in the cases provided for by law changes the president of Serbia. Imagine now if you, because you would be shown the need to satisfy a staff solution, would introduce a deputy acting president of the Republic and how insane it is. We warned your representatives in the town hall, but unfortunately, it wasn't worth it. I'll remind you, there are many of you who held whistles in your mouth in 1996 and hit pots because they thought that in the local elections there was a harsh violation of the law and that the results of the election were irregular. I can't understand how it is possible for you to get into an even worse situation in the Belgrade City Assembly, the Serbian capital, to seduce the terror of the majority and take away the right that belongs to us in the Rules of Procedure. I really can't understand that. Is the reason that from the mayoral post of Belgrade, or the acting official, you are allowed to go to the elections because you are counting on the budget of the city of Belgrade? Because if that were not the case, you would have acted in accordance with the law, and the law clearly states that 15 days after the mayor's term of office, elected in the direct elections, the president of the Assembly must call the elections. But today you're in a situation where you don't have a chance to regularly go to elections and win; you realize you don't stand a chance, you resort to this kind of violence. What can we expect from you? Once you've concluded, and that's already now, that you don't stand a chance in the election, you won't even call the election. I call on you to respect the law and the constitution and to annul the decision of the Belgrade City Assembly. I call again on the Committee on Local Self-Government to inform this assembly, based on the facts and materials available to it, and to introduce a legal course.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7877	I thank Mr. Dragan Todorovic. Mr. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, then the MP of the People, Verica Radet, then the MP of the people Tomislav Nikolic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We adopted an act called the European Convention on Local Self-Government a while ago, and then Minister Milan Markovic told us that the adoption of this convention is necessary in order to bring the Republic of Serbia closer to European integration flows in the area of local self-government. We can hear every day from representatives of the ruling coalition of different stories about Europe, about the European Union, on human rights, on European and world standards, etc., and then in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, an unprecedented political trade takes place, breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Local Self-Government. Also, we in the Assembly a few days ago were able to hear a statement from the minister responsible for local self-government, which is Milan Markovic, that it is not possible to say whether elections should be called for mayor of Belgrade, because it is not clear whether the current Law on Local Self-Government will apply or whether a new law on local self-government should be passed. I must remind you of the provision of Article 12. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "Laws and other republican regulations remain in force until their compliance with the Constitution, within the deadlines provided for by this law, if this law is not set to cease to apply. "The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not intend to stop the Law on Local Self-Government, which means it should be applied until a new law is passed. The current Law on Local Self-Government stipulates that in the event that the mayor's term of office expires before the election of the President of the National Assembly is up to him, within 15 days of the day of his term of office, he will call the elections for mayor of Belgrade. In this case, it didn't happen. The law on local self-government is very clear. I ask the President of the National Assembly why he has not fulfilled his obligation to him by applying the Law on Local Self-Government? So, there's nothing unclear here, there's nothing controversial, there's an exact order of moves, and you know exactly what the president of the National Assembly is supposed to do. Instead of respecting the Law on Local Self-Government, respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this European Convention on Local Self-Government that you proposed a few months ago, you think it's enough to make a political deal in the Belgrade City Assembly and that's how the story ends. We don't think so in the Serbian Radical Party. We believe that the Law on Local Self-Government should be respected and that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to call elections for mayor of Belgrade according to the current rules, which means under the Law on Local Self-Government and by the Law on Local Elections. Political trade cannot change the current acts of the Republic of Serbia. These are neither European nor world standards, nor have the Republic of Serbia ever acted that way. This behavior is causing great damage to the world and to the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the National Assembly, because the president of the National Assembly, who is the first among the same in this home, will not respect the Law on Local Self-Government that binds him and the rest of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7879	I thank Mr. Alexander Martinovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Mr Mrkonjic reminds me that we should say which member of the Rules of Procedure we advertise, in line with what Mr Dulic said Thursday; quote, Article 226: "The MP has the right to ask for information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues within the framework of the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities at which he is headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP. "I thank Mrs. Radetti. ) Therefore, the questions I will ask here refer precisely to the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the President of the Assembly Committee and the Minister of Serbia, Mr Milan Markovic. I don't think we need to stress what anarchy is like in local self-government, since it is the previous Kostunica government and now in power in Serbia. Of course, in one part, it is the result of a bad Law on Local Self - Management, which we have spoken of in time. On the other hand, it is about the abuse of the position of certain officials, the absolute disrespect of the Constitution, the constitutional law, the law, the Rules of Procedure. Such anarchy as it is now in local self-government is simply not a memory. I would remind you that ten municipalities have been introduced by the forced administration, that the deadlines have long since the president of the assembly, Mr Dulic, were due to call the elections. Of course, there is no point in that because in all these municipalities an emergency body, which is from the ruling parties at the republican level, is actually an electoral theft. What the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is an electoral theft, as the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot, indefinitely, set up a provisional body from parties ruling at the republican level, if at a local level, a completely different situation and a different relationship of forces. In fact, the president of the Parliament must, in accordance with the law, call elections and establish normal authority in these municipalities. On the other hand, we have a situation in municipalities where the theft and purchase of mandates are obvious. We've got it in Old Paz, we've got it in the rum community. Of course, there is a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia who openly puts aside those who are wrong. The Minister of Local Self-Government is being sent to some virtual presidents of the municipality instead of making a proper solution. It is known that when a solution is obtained, it is treated with the right of appeal, with the right of administrative action and so on. Of course, this government doesn't care about any of that. After all, Serbia has been in an unconstitutional state for months.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7881	I thank Mrs. Verice Radetti. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7882	I am reporting under Article 104 of the 2nd and 3rd centuries and I am speaking to the MP Dr Rajko Đuric, president of the Union of Roma Serbia, who insulted me as a man. I just want to introduce it to the public, and I'm not asking for any apology. On October 12th, as president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, I received a letter from Mr Rajko Đuric informing me that the Union of Roma Serbia will set up a memorial plate on the 33rd Belgrade Street building, where 14-year-old Dusan Jovanovic was killed on October 18, 1997. The memorial panel will be revealed by Mr Boris Tadic, president of the Republic of Serbia. The Roma Union of Serbia is asking all MPs to attend the discovery of this memorial panel. I answered Mr. Djuric immediately the same day. I informed him that I had received word from him that Mr. President of Serbia would reveal the record, but that it did not say any day, at any time. I suppose it's an event that he intended exclusively for himself, the president of Serbia and the media, of course, and if it hadn't been for him to want me there, he would have told me at least what time it would be. I told him in a letter that we participated in the condemnation of this event and that we should not have been eliminated in this way, all MPs, out of the fight for equality of all Serbian citizens and that I was carefully following his steps so far, especially attacks on the Serbian Radical Party, convinced that he did so on purpose. In addition to that, I bring you a 1997 "Romano Lil", which conveyed my statement on the "Democracy" list on the occasion of the tragic murder of Duško Jovanovic. There's nothing to add or subtract, absolutely, in these ten years I haven't changed my attitude at all. Mr. Djuric, you replied that I had used this sad occasion to demean and accuse both you and the president of Serbia. Just one thing that really hurt me, you told me to put a cloak of indiscretion on myself, my family, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Radical Party in public. Mr. Guric, if you were my brother Rom a hundred times, I would never forgive you for this. I won't let you load me on the Serbian Radical Party, and I won't give it to my family. You can personally, I'm mortal, even though you accused me here of having dictatorial ambitions, and that's all for the purpose of your bosses. Your boss was in the campaign, and now your boss is Mr. Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7883	I thank the MP Tomislav Nikolic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7884	So Serbia is in an unconstitutional state and directly responsible for this situation are Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica and Oliver Dulic. Oliver Dulic, as president of the Assembly, was not allowed to allow the Assembly to take this course and that for days or weeks now we were discussing some agenda with 32 points, compared to what our constitutional obligation is, I would say, non-essential points of the agenda. The constitutional obligation was to have the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court by now. If we had ended this in a timely manner, then we would have been much easier to resolve this problem that arose in the Belgrade City Assembly. We now have no other option, unfortunately, except that Serbia's public informs that the most harsh majority in the Belgrade City Assembly played with the Constitution, with the law and with the Businessman. I recall that in the Belgrade City Assembly, specific representatives of the DS and DSS made some amazing trade; when the mayor's mandate ended in one of the ways provided for by the Rules of Procedure and Law, they agreed to make some kind of a deadline, to change the president of the Belgrade City Assembly because the president of the Assembly is acting as mayor in a situation where the mayor is not there. Of course, we are not interested in Serbian radicals how much DSS and Vojislav Kostunica have allowed themselves to be humiliated by Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party. It's their internal matter. What we insist on is law enforcement, the application of the Rules of Procedure of the City Assembly. They were obliged to make it possible for all parliamentary groups to be elected by the new president of the Assembly on that day, and we speak on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which, like others, was disabled from running for office as Assembly president. No one can know in advance whether a candidate will have a majority or not. Thank you. I'll go on again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7885	I'm sorry to interrupt, ladies, but I'll sign you up again. The People's MP Aleksandar Vucic, after him, has the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic, and the People's Messenger Misa Petronijevic, then the People's Messenger Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7886	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So, for several weeks, there is a terrible campaign going on against both the SRS and its representatives, a campaign against the entire Serbian people, in certain media. As Mr. Nikolic said earlier, we don't mind when that campaign is directed against one of us. Here, for the third week in a row, there's been a hack and a haranga on TV B92 for bringing out a poster here and showing it, protecting the rights of ordinary people to defend what they are guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all international acts of law, which is the presummation of innocence. That doesn't bother the thieving and the criminal television... Thief and criminal, to clarify this immediately, because they stole the least, what has been proven, 11m euros from Serbian citizens, because of contracts they signed with the NBS, and signed by Mladjan Dinkic, who paid 5.60 euros a square metre instead of at least 20 euros in that location. So, the citizens of Serbia, they took 11m euros from you, so you figure out how much money it is. So they got involved in this campaign and in a government-aid campaign, for our unknown reason, in something that hasn't happened in any normal country so far. Where is this, Mr. Finance Minister, budgeted to pay a million euros or 250,000 euros if someone sells information or sells a man to the Government of the Republic of Serbia or who knows what state authority? Where does that say in the Serbian budget? When will you, Mr. Minister, suggest us a budget rebalance here, when will it be clear to us who you will and how to pay for that money? Or will he take the same money or someone like him who took the money when the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic was made? Are you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did you manage to do one thing in Serbia, and that is to say and show -- you, Serbian citizens, are not worth anything, we buy you, we buy your ideas, we want to buy your head for our dirtiest money, and not ask you how we're going to spend that money. Well, Serbian citizens are not prostitutes to buy them for money, Mr. Minister, and no one honest and normal will come to you, only someone in your environment can find you coming for that 250,000 and a half million, although I can see it's a small thing for you, as you said at the press conference. In the end, this is about the election. I don't know all those members of the law, I haven't studied, but I know why there's no choice for mayor of Belgrade. They're not there because gentlemen can't win, and they want other choices because they think they're going to win. Here, let's wait, we can go to the election in March, but if you want and whenever you want, I end up with it, the biggest obligation will be (I speak as an ordinary citizen, not as a Serbian Radical Party MP, not as its member or official), the biggest obligation for all of Serbia, which Tomislav Nikolic will have on him, is to defeat Boris Tadic. This will have to happen to Serbia because it will bring about changes, it will begin to save Serbia from growing corruption, crime. This will begin to save Serbia from underestimating citizens in such a way and telling them - here are a million euros, report to us someone, we encourage denudents and spies. Now, we encourage freedom and the fight against denudents, spies and the worst enemies of the Serbian people and the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7887	The word has been made by the MP of the people Nemanja Sarovic, followed by the MP of the people Misa Petronijevic, and by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7888	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, just so you know, Miss Natasa Jovanovic is a folk MP. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been forced to report to the Rules of Procedure and inform the citizens of Belgrade and all of Serbia about the violence you are carrying out in the capital of Belgrade. First, I must say, it is absolutely amazing that although Belgrade is the capital of Serbia, the largest city in Serbia, citizens of the city of Belgrade have little opportunity to be informed of what is being done in the City Assembly. There are no municipalities in Serbia, even though there are several thousand residents, that in some way there is no transfer of the assembly session, whether via local radio, whether via local television. It's the only thing in Belgrade that you absolutely never wanted to allow. As you know, Belgrade has city television, and this is Studio B TV. The best in the case of Study B can be seen as you experience democracy, because instead of being in the service of citizens, instead of having committees and representatives of all parties who have committees in the City Assembly and that the representation on Study B is proportionate, you have grabbed it with your claws, serves you for advertising, guests of the Democratic Party from the City Assembly from day to day. It never occurred to you to let a little different voice be heard. I also have to remind you that the Serbian Radical Party won the parliamentary elections, and that the next victory will certainly be even more convincing. You'd better turn to democratic principles in time and let the Serbian Radical Party vote, though. At a session of the City Hall that was held exactly a week ago, a very strange situation occurred. Several provisions of the Belgrade Assembly's Rules of Procedure were violated, firstly Article 14 which said, "The President of the Assembly ends office before the time he was elected if he resigns or is resolved. "It goes on to say, "The day of the resignation of the president of the Assembly ceases his post," and then the third position: "The resignations of the speaker of the assembly are immediately notified to the assembly's committees, and at the first next session of the assembly, without voting, determines that his mandate has ceased on the day of his resignation. "So, at the 20th session of the City Assembly, held on Monday 8 October, the president of the City Assembly resigned. At that moment, his term of office ceased, but after that, they were in accordance with Article 14. The Rules of Procedure must first be notified to all the councils of the city and that resignation should be granted, and only, according to Article 3... (President: I thank you, Mr. Sarovic.) Let me finish my thought. So, only at the next session 21, which could be scheduled for the next day, could you determine the resignation of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly. You've been deaf about this... Here, out of respect for Mr. Mrkonjic, I'll finish, so I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7889	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Misa Petronijevic. I thank the MPs for their disciplined respect for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. Before that, if all those who were to react had responded when we warned about this question last Tuesday, obviously we wouldn't have spent this much time on it today. The question is asked on Tuesday, and I just want to say it again. I request a notice from the president of the National Assembly whether he has called the elections for mayor of Belgrade. If he's not, when's he gonna call them? Last time, Tuesday, we warned that a scandal occurred in the City Assembly on Monday, SPS committees and SRS committees warned at the session itself of anti-business and illegal behaviour. By force of argument, we then persuaded the majority in the City Hall. The majority in the City Assembly simply made decisions against the Rules of Procedure and against the Law. There is no possibility of a political agreement to establish power in the city, but elections. For these reasons, we have warned, Belgrade is a huge city, Belgrade has about a billion euros and, of course, it is a great battle to have that money. Of course, there is an even greater need for the Belgraders to find out what's going on with that money. That's why I'm asking the president of the National Assembly if he has called the election. If it isn't, when will it be? I'm asking the government to give its judgment. It is required, even in the procedure and in amendments to the Government Act, to take care of the constitutionality and legality of the work of local self-government. Let her say what she thinks about it. Otherwise, this government's behaviour, to keep quiet, has led to the unconstitutional state in Serbia, that ten municipalities in Serbia have been in a state of emergency for a year, temporary administration. There's always talk, now and in the city, there's going to be elections. At the same time, these days we're hearing about the possibility of changing the constitutional law, which would lead to a shift in choices. Then how long will it take? Finally, I request a notice from the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, since the Committee, in accordance with Article 40. The Rules of Procedure, he has the right, and that was promised at the last session, when he will convene the Committee on Local Self-Government and give the Assembly Committee his assessment of it. So what Mr Dragan Todorovic was saying about what was going on in the Belgrade City Assembly, not to say again, is all true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7891	I thank the People's MP Misha Petronivic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Rajko Đuric, then Mrs Vjerica Radeta, and Jovan Damjanović, and Bozidar Delic, and Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7892	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know what's wrong with you from the DSS, but if you've gathered a little bit since you participated in this lawlessness in the City Assembly, it's your turn to call Mr Palalic, because he promised me last week that he would call an emergency session of the Committee on Local Self-Government. Based on the stenographic notes that we have here and based on the facts that can be determined from the course of the session of the City Assembly, you can, and I said it was a job for Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, to see that Zoran Alimpic is falsely represented. So you've been involved in crime, violation of the Constitution and the laws of this country, you from the DS and the DSS. It's now a job for several state authorities. First, it expired five days when Vojislav Kostunica, or the competent ministry, was due to suspend the enforcement of this illegal and illegal act on the election of Zoran Alimpic, because not only the Law on Local Self-Government, which was discussed by fellow Martinovic, but also the Law on Local Elections, was violated. The law on local elections gives citizens of Belgrade the right after what happened, which is that the directly elected mayor of Belgrade has passed away, to exercise their constitutional right. I am reporting to you, Mr. Mrkonjic, to advertise that in the worst possible way they have been violated, among other things, Article 3 and Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The country's highest legal act, in which you swore, and above all Vojislav Kostunica in the referendum campaign and when he took an oath as newly elected prime minister, was violated because citizens of Belgrade were denied their electoral right. Citizens of the city of Belgrade cannot declare who they want for mayor of Belgrade. Oliver Dulic was obliged to answer these questions and, in consultation with the Prime Minister, who had to suspend, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there are two ministers, both Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Ilic... Here, take a look at the Constitution, if you're not up to the details of what's been going on in the City Hall. Isn't that funny? Everything's funny to you, Mr. Cvetkovic, it's easy for you. As in the market, you sell Serbian heads, you find it funny that the budget of the city of Belgrade... (President: Natasha, don't. )......................................................................................................... in the hands of a man who cannot dispose of the means of the citizens, who cannot govern the Constitution and the law. It's funny to you, and I don't know where you get the right to talk about what money is in the budget, but certainly not to take from poor citizens to court Carly del Ponte. Therefore, the law is clear. Now I'm going to end it and show it to you on one case. It would be the same if Boris Tadic were going on a trip to football games, all about the cost of Serbian citizens, for V.D. The president set up that loser Krstic, and then Krstic says, I can't, Tadic left, my V.D. So that he may be Shaper, and sing together; so are their people, and they cast them on. It can't be done like that. In a country where there is a Constitution and laws you must rule over them. It is your turn, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to warn, because I don't know if you've been chairing the entire day, here I am also responding as vice president of the Assembly, to have the Committee on Local Self-Government set up immediately. And I'm telling you from the DSS that you're passing it on to Palalic. On the basis of what Mr. Sarovic has on him, and what Mr. Todorovic, the stenogram, spoke of, we need to determine what happened there and that the Committee is taking what is in his jurisdiction. The Committee can react and immediately refer the presentation to the Government and announce that the Constitution, the Law on Local Elections, the Law on Local Self-Government. It's the only way we can get out of this unconstitutional state. It is still not too late to break up Alimpic and go to the mayoral elections for Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7893	I thank Natashi Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7894	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very grateful to Mr. Tomislav Nikolic for taking the word and calling me this time, as he did the day before yesterday in his letter to me, but a letter which, unfortunately, was published in the media, especially in "Justice", with my photo, "Politice" etc. Believe me, I would never answer if Mr Nikolic's letter hadn't been published in the media. However, a picture of this boy Dusan Jovanovic, who was killed masculinely on October 18th 1997 at 21.15 p.m., obliges me human and morally to speak about it by defending, above all, the name of that innocent victim. Branko Miljkovic, a great poet, said, "We have nothing left except words." I'm surprised that Mr. Toma Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, in which I have, I must say, for this time very valuable sassmen, even friends, regardless of our political programmes, found it appropriate to accuse me in his letter based on his assumptions. Please read his letter, he says - I suppose, and then he concludes that I am calling this memorial gathering for myself, Boris Tadic and the media. I'm speechless, Mr. Nikolic, because you have children, like me, have grandchildren. Exactly if we're thinking about our children, we can't say that. You see, now you've shown, you've demonstrated how to manipulate the text. Please, in my letter, which you received two hours ago, clearly stands my apology first because the error was made by the secretary, not me. I'm sorry, I'm the author of 34 books that were published not only here, but in Germany, France, Japan, and I'm sorry, I didn't find any of your texts based on which I could judge your literary and stylish ability. Don't mind me saying that. Here, this text, Mr. Chairman, reads: you, Mr. Nikolic, have publicly presented yourself as my investigator, because in your letter you wrote, a quote - carefully following your steps. I said, I'm not contesting that right, but I regret your in vain effort. After all, you said that Djuric had passed a five-stage check. I said thank you for your confidential information and compliment. Mr. Nikolic, I will take that record and as a man who understands politics and the right to seek the formation of a survey committee to examine who has the right in this assembly among us to take other people's files. If the polling committee fails, I will call on the European institutions to clear this up to the end. In the end, I am very grateful to Mrs Tabakovic; a wonderful, smart man always makes wonderful suggestions. We need to take out a cleanup on who financed which political parties at the time of the election. I remain open-handed, open-minded and open-hearted, and I am really looking for exact information about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7895	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7896	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Rajko Djuric, I apologize to all our MPs, whom I greatly appreciate, regardless of the party's commitment, but we need to know here in this assembly who deals with insinuations, lies and demagogues and who's in what network. I ask you, what kind of memorial do you want to do to the late Dusan Jovanovic and where to place her, Mr Rajko Djuric? Do you know, Mr Rajko Djuric, 1997, when little Dusan Jovanovic was killed by skinheads, the general public and state institutions condemned it. We Roma of Serbia have rallyed, us over ten thousand, and you have not been among us. Where were you then? What are you lying, you're lying to us people's MPs here; what are you lying to the president of the state? That's not allowed. I'm telling you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr Rajko Djuric, this is the record that we Roma of Serbia have set for Dusan Jovanovic, Belgrade 33, who stands there today. How are you gonna get the record off now, set up yours? What do you want? You want, Mr. Rajko, to portray this country as a Nazi, chauvinist and it's against national minorities. I know what you were saying about both the radical party and Serbia when you were where you were. I know, and I'm gonna get a picture of you being taken with the SS in their uniform, and you're teaching us some real and democracy here. You laugh, you laugh, it's your right to laugh. (President: Don't, Mr Damjanovic, so hard of words. I ask you, did you condemn, Mr Rajko Djuric, when 156 families died, or died on the Adriatic by Albanian chauvinists and Nazis and murderers. You weren't anywhere. Did you condemn, Mr. Rajko Djuric, when they raped our wedding, our wedding procession in Kosovo Mitrovica? You should be ashamed. You're looking for points on a dead kid now. How are you gonna take this record off and put your belt on? That's terrible, Mr. Rajko Guric. You don't work for the interest of Serbia. The curtains fell, as they say. You are not a representative of the Roma political party. It's your right to be where you want to be. You cheated on the nation. Yesterday I had a conversation with your representatives who called me because you're conducting a dictatorship in your party. Rommie's going out on the streets to take your shift. You know, this is terrible what you do and what demagogy you serve here. This is what you're looking for, but it exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7897	I thank Mr Damjanović. The word has the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, then the People's MP Bozidar Delic, and Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7898	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm afraid Oliver Dulic will no longer allow you to lead the Assembly because you don't respect what he said here on Thursday, which is that MPs can only speak three minutes in the Rules of Procedure. It's Thursday, and it's been in the Rules of Procedure since the Rules of Procedure. I remind you that I want to speak under Article 226 and it reads... (President: Don't quote him, please. Let me, I respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mr. Gristle, and that's my duty. Therefore, Article 226: "The MP shall have the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP". As a People's Messenger, I ask first of all from my fellow Palalic, who, I see, has come, is in the last bench... He promised Mr. Palalic on Wednesday, and I mention him by his name and last name because the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government... You promised, Mr. Palalic, on Wednesday, when we opened the subject of abuse in the Belgrade City Assembly, that on the same day you would call a session of the Committee. You didn't do it. Of course, you are waiting to get a signal from someone who will order you, as you have allowed in the City Assembly to humiliate you, which is your problem, and because you do not have the consent of the Democratic Party, you are trying to humiliate the MPs. We Serbian radicals are not going to allow it to you or anyone else, because the humiliation of the MPs of the people means the humiliation of the citizens who have chosen the MPs of the people. I remind you, Mr Palalic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that a scandal, legal violence occurred in the Assembly of Belgrade, that the assembly majority, although warned, broke both the Constitution and the laws and the Rules of Procedure, had chosen the President of the Assembly, which actually meant the mayor, had not allowed all the committee groups to give their candidates as mayor. The commitment is to the president of parliament, we hope that at least that obligation will be fulfilled, and it is still a few days away, to call the mayor's election. Thank you. Write to me again in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7899	The word has a folk MP Bozidar Delic, then a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7900	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these days, as we discuss here in the Assembly, the truth, and more important issues, another of the foundations of the state of Serbia is collapsing in our eyes in Serbia. For ten days now, newspapers have been writing about the case of Judge Gordana Bozilovic-Peterovic, judges in the district court's council, who, among other things, is on trial for war crimes. I checked with my lawyer friends, who defend the defendants on that council, and they said he was a top professional, insecure and a judge who can't be influenced. What's that judge changing about? It judges, or is located in a court council in all war crimes cases, except Zvornik, and Ovcara 1, Ovcara 2, Suvo Reka and the Genesis brothers. As president of the court council, in the case of a Srebrenica group of Muslims, she reached a verdict not satisfied with Natasa Kandic and, according to the newspaper, representatives of an embassy. Why don't you say it plainly - the American embassy. District Court President Mr. Sinisa Blazic has removed this judge from all cases. It's just one judge; however, what happens when a judge gets out of the case? All objects are returning to the beginning. The Vukovar case, which was reinstated a year ago, now, with the exception of Judge Gordana Bozilovic, is back on trial for the third time, and these people have been in custody for four years. The Dry River case, these people have been in custody for two years. Here, today was due to begin the war crimes trial in the Vukovar case at 9:30. Lawyers sought an exemption from the entire court council, an exemption from the District Court president and the Supreme Court's exemption. I just want, since there is probably the president of our Committee on Justice, since the Assembly and all the committee groups received a letter from Judge Gordana Bozilović-Petrović, to explain to us Mr. Miško Petkovic whether he received this paper and why our Committee on Justice did not meet and why he did not ask the Ministry of Justice and other institutions to answer that question. That same judge Gordan Bozilović-Peterovic in '92. Some other MPs have been elected for years, and in '98. It was also elected by this assembly as the District Court judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7901	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and then a National MP, Srdjan Sajn. Mr. Palalic, you are the fifth, and then MP Rajko Đuric, in the end, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and I ask for a notice from the president of the National Assembly, as well as from the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what measures will they take about illegalities in the work of the Belgrade City Assembly, and about the election of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, i.e. by failing to resolve the issue of calling for mayor of Belgrade. I repeat once again that the Law on Local Self-Government, when it comes to the Belgrade mayor's election, is completely clear. The president of the National Assembly has an obligation to call elections for mayor of Belgrade within 15 days of the mayor's term of office, unless less than six months remain until the term of office. We have to go back a little bit, so let's remind ourselves when the mayoral elections for Belgrade were held. Local elections across Serbia, including Belgrade, took place in September 2004. This means that the Belgrade mayor's term of office continues until September 2008. So more than six months left until the end of the term of office, and the president of the National Assembly has an obligation to call elections for Belgrade's mayor, in accordance with the current Law on Local Self-Government. Political trade between the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia cannot change the current law. This is no longer a daily policy issue, this is a principle question, will the president of the National Assembly stand in the protection of not this or that individual and not this or that party, but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on Local Self-Government? This is particularly important in a situation where the Republic of Serbia currently does not have a Constitutional Court and does not have an administrative court. Therefore, the opportunities of MPs in the Serbian Parliament, councilors in the Belgrade City Assembly and citizens of Serbia to protect their fundamental rights to local self-government are significantly reduced due to the lack of adequate state institutions. In this situation, the president of the National Assembly and the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government must do everything they can to remove illegality in the work of the Belgrade City Assembly and to allow the vote to be called for mayor of Belgrade. We in the SRS are absolutely clear why the political trade is happening in the Belgrade City Assembly, i.e. why the president of the National Assembly does not call elections for mayor of Belgrade. The point is that DS and DSS have a legitimate fear that the elections will be won by a Serbian Radical Party candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7903	The People's MP Srdjan Sajn has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry to have to refer to Mr Damjanovic's words spoken a few days ago. The same day I couldn't because the chairman asked me, as at the end of last session, to complete the session, and today I want to take advantage of the opportunity to point out what insinuation means, what demagogy means, and whether someone is telling the truth or someone is saying something to give this Parliament some other information. Since Mr Damjanovic managed to present a few things that I have documents that are not correct, I will have to explain one thing at a time today on several occasions. Today I will respect the attitude of my political campaign party, from work so far, to talk exclusively about our work, our work results, and not to explore other people's backyards, not because other people's backyards are cleaner, but because we think that in Serbia it's time to talk about what we've done. One of those things is the next, I read stenograms from that congregation. Mr Damjanovic said: "There is Mr Ljajic. You are also scheduled to hand over the ballots by the 17th of this month." He's referring to the National Council session. However, proof that it is not true that by the 17th of this month, the ballot should be handed over and that that is not why not all Roma can hand over ballots and run for the Roma National Council, I am applying the following document, and I am going to give it to the minutes, in which the following is clearly spoken, therefore, it is an ad: "It is called to persons who, on the basis of Article 24. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Official Journal, has the right to be electricians, to submit written applications by 17 November 2007 for participation in the extraordinary electoral assembly for the election of the National Council of the Roma National Minority. The next item, meaning that it is not true that it is not known who is being handed over, speaks of the following: "The reports mentioned in point 2 of this notice are being delivered to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in Belgrade." So it's incorrect that by the 17th of this month it was due to surrender, rather than by the 17th of next month, and that's no less than 30 days. Another sentence at the end of this set of questions. On January 1, 2006, at a meeting where dozens of NGOs were present, you, Mr Damjanovic, were elected on their behalf to chair a working group that was scheduled to launch a new session to elect a new National Council. That task force of yours didn't make it. Which are the reasons, you know best. So, you have had the opportunity from that day until today to do so and you should not criticise the representatives of the Roma Party and other citizens of Serbia of Roma nationality for doing so because you yourself took the same task. I'll keep this document in writing and let's see who's telling the truth and who's not. (President: I thank Mr. Shane. It's true what he said, that I begged him to leave this question for today, but I would ask him to put it all in these three minutes, not to discuss it three more times. I'll do it for the citizens, because a lot of people are watching, to take advantage of my time during the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7905	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared. It's all over the Rules of Procedure. You don't have to read the members, but please state the number of members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7906	Mr. Carrot, I can, in a gesture of goodwill, not to read, not to quote, but to count that time I need for a quote. I'll pick up where I left off. A large number of abuses have indeed been made at this session and it is a great pity that Belgrade citizens have no opportunity to see how all this was happening, but we have taken stenographic notes and we will try today to picture to the citizens of Serbia how this is done by DS and DSS representatives in the Belgrade City Assembly playing with their lives, breaking all the laws. Then it will be clear to you why there is no Constitutional Court, why the Minister of Local Self-Government reacts when he thinks he can, beyond the law, by giving his opinion that the Democratic Party should take over power in the municipality of Ruma, so as to kidnap the mandates; but of course, when it is time to lose power then Mr. Milan Markovic does not react. It is obvious that the real reasons for this kind of treatment are that you are certain that you can no longer win in the capital of Serbia, Belgrade, but perhaps you would do well to act in accordance with the law and call the elections. I'll tell you why. When he loses the Democratic Party candidate from the SRS in Belgrade, then it might be a good sign for you to change the way the president of the Republic's election. It is obvious that you and what is a democratic rule are determining according to your assessment of how you will be able to win, so it might be good for you to try and choose Boris Tadic as president of the Republic of Serbia here directly in the Assembly, because his chances of being elected from day to day are less and less in the regular elections. Next thing you know, and the next big break you've committed, here's what Mr. Dragan Todorovic warned you about, I'll read it now. He says, "What was your problem with making an appointment tomorrow at the 21st session? You don't care about that at all. Today you want to crush everything, finish the job, and do it in an illegal way again." Speaking of the agenda, since you have a good legal service to boast about, the 3rd item of the agenda (and I'm surprised this wasn't on the headlines of the daily newspaper) says - a proposal for a solution to the appointment of deputy executive mayor of Belgrade. Let anyone from the Democratic Party come out, there are MPs who are also city council members, so let them say what is a member of the Law on Local Self-Government, the Statute of the City of Belgrade, the Rules of Procedure for the Labour of the Belgrade City Assembly, give any act in which there is an intended function of deputy Belgrade mayor. You know that this has nothing to do with the Constitution or the law. You are aware of this, knowingly entering this legal violence, but that is why you have provided well in advance, you have abolished the Constitutional Court, it is one of the currents of the five-octobarian revolution, and you are doing great and you are swimming in that situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7907	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. The session of the Legislative Committee will take place today, on 15 October 2007, starting at 12.00 hours, in a blue salon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7908	Mr. Gristle, if I go to give them the quorum, they can't hold a session, and neither can the other committees, and I won't leave. I've reached out to Article 226, and I'm not going to talk about it anymore today. So, the party authorities voluntarily donated, to say sports language, a penal to the opposition parties here because several issues that the parties opened ten and more years ago -- that they would establish the rule of law, that it would be a democratic state, that they would respect the electoral will of citizens, that the Constitution would be respected, that the Constitutional Court would function, i.e. the mandates of the elected authority or elected authorities would last as long as prescribed or shorter. So it is possible, but it is not possible for the mandates of elected authorities to last longer, and this is happening in some segments of government today in Serbia. The Belgrade city's assembly embarrassed and shamed the former mayor. So he didn't deserve Mr. Bogdanovic to do what you're doing that way. There is a clearly prescribed procedure for selecting certain officials in a certain rank of government. So no clumsy explanation will help you to come out of this with honor. The bottom line is the next one. In twenty municipalities in Serbia, there is an unconstitutional, illegal state of affairs when it comes to the exercise of power -- emergency measures, temporary authorities that exercise power, the composition of temporary authorities in line with what is a complete reflection when it comes to the Republic government; there are members of those bodies representing parties that have not crossed the censorship in these municipalities, etc. That's not fair. A moment ago, said Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, an SPS MP, that the Belgrade city's budget is a billion euros. The budgets of some municipalities, such as Leskovac and Smederevo, are 22, 27, 28m euros. You're in position for the next election, you're making so-called. election budgets designed and implemented by temporary authorities, where there are no municipal congregations. You're doing it permanently and you're asking us to have an understanding of such actions. Don't count on that kind of correctness with us. Antagonism is the very essence of politics. If it wasn't for antagonism, there wouldn't be politics. So, establish a constitutional state in Serbia, make a Constitutional Court, call elections at all levels as prescribed by the rules, and we will believe that you are a democratic authority. Otherwise, do what you criticized more than 10 or 15 years ago. I remind you, by power-playing, the Socialist Party of Serbia has three times shortened the mandates of elected, once to the president, and twice to parliament, and you extend the mandate and say - we will choose when conditions are obtained. (Chairman:Time. That's amazing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7909	I thank Parliamentarian Rajk Baralic. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I answered the word. But there are six MPs before you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I signed up. I was on the list earlier, so I went out because I had to get out. I don't know, we have to make a deal, there are six MPs before you, but that's exactly what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7910	Ladies and gentlemen, unlike his colleague Rajko Baralic, who left a certain reserve, I know that this power is not democratic, I know it does not work for the benefit of Serbian citizens. As a council member of the City Assembly since 2004, I have witnessed what is happening in the City Assembly. At the previous session, we had a clear violation of the Constitution and the law, and among other things, of the Rules of Procedure on Labour and the Statute of the City Assembly. We have a situation that there is an incomprehensible desire for the authorities to choose the president of the City Assembly in one anti-constitutional and illegal way, completely taking a chance on other committee groups to have the right to run for their candidate. Such illegal behaviour is not at all strange when it comes to, let's say, that this assembly, that this authority does not want to choose the Constitutional Court, that the State Auditing Institution chooses from the ranks of party parties, etc. Why could no SRS committee member in the Belgrade City Assembly come to visit any TV show on Studio B, in the morning programme or in any other show, or to be broadcast a statement on any point discussed in the City Assembly? Because that's when we'd hear what we think about the big failures in the City Assembly, what we think about what they now call light rail transport, about the bypasses, about the chaos that's being created in Belgrade, about when they're destroying the citizens of the kiosks, when they're destroying their property. The representatives of the SRS rebel, the government raises their hands, votes, and then the campaign says he loves his citizens and will do anything for them. He loves them most in the world. They want to make them grow and develop small and medium-sized enterprises, but they're going to be torn down by a bagger, obviously. If the SRS were in power, we wouldn't have this "stelt" bridge today, about which the Democratic Party published in its vote, we'd already have one real one, so citizens wouldn't have to wait 15 hours to cross the river. I know it won't be called here or anywhere for mayor of Belgrade, because this government knows well that it can't win. According to all the analyses, Alexander Vukic is leading and would have won any candidate. We know that it will change the law, but because of everything that is happening, when the presidential elections are called, whenever the presidential elections are held, Tomislav Nikolic will also win Boris Tadic and any other candidate, because of the future of Serbia and the future of children and for the better life of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7911	Thank you to the MP, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Excuse me, please, Mr. Todorovic. It was true that you asked to go, so you could talk later.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it really concerns the current situation in which Serbia, citizens of Serbia and the Republika Srpska Assembly are located. Here, as the government refers to what happened in the City Assembly, it is best to show the departure of two ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who did not worry at all what we said in the Belgrade City Assembly. The truth is, unfortunately, I haven't gotten a full stenogram yet. I guess the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups immediately after Monday asked their party representatives in the Belgrade City Assembly to tell them what happened there. Here is how the current president of the Belgrade City Assembly, V.D., explained this. The mayor. He went out for a pay phone and said – we agreed in the ruling coalition to resign today, that I, as vice-president of the assembly, would resign, that I would be elected president of the assembly, and Mr Baralic as vice-president of the assembly. We're doing this because the election will be held in less than six months. That's what you have in my stenograms, they're available to you. I went out after that and asked a simple question, which I'm asking here today. As the DSS Assembly was held yesterday, where the prime minister of the government and the president of the DSS Vojislav Kostunica is very precise, clear, not leaving the dilemma on the time when elections will be held, he said -- at this point there is nothing more important for us than the Kosovo and Metohija issues; given that there is a serious danger of Kosovo and Metohija's independence being unilaterally declared by Albanians and that the US recognise it, we must be prepared at that time to try to neutralize such an illegal act by all available forces. It doesn't occur to us that we're going to the election. I'm sorry, I'll respect the Rules of Procedure, but I'll be right back to finish this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7913	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The People's Messenger Jovan Palalic has the word, and after him, Mr Rajko Đuric, the Messenger of the people, and the Messenger of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7914	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been mentioned in the presentation of my colleague Jovanovic and my colleague, Verica Radeta. I would like to point out that at the previous session, also after the address of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic on what to take on the Committee on Local Self-Government, I said that the Committee would ask the Belgrade City Assembly, but also some other local self-governments where crises have arisen in the functioning of local self-government, and I specifically mentioned Ruma, and reports and all material from those sessions, so that the Committee could discuss on the basis of facts. On the same day, I sent this same letter to the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and, behold, on this occasion I call on the public to deliver the material to the Committee on Local Self-Government as soon as possible, so that we can discuss all relevant data. I also call on the competent ministry to, in accordance with its legal powers, exercise supervision and to give its opinion on the matter. Of course, problems in the functioning of the local self-government in Ruma were heard that day. Also, as chairman of the Committee, I sent a memo to the competent minister and asked him to report on all the problems in the functioning of the local self-government in Ruma and Stara Paza, so that we could all discuss together and draw conclusions on what key problems are. It is pointed out here, and I agree with that, that the biggest problem is extremely bad solutions in the Law on Local Self-Government. The consequences of these poor solutions are now seen, as a large number of local self-governments have a functioning crisis, especially as a number of committees change support in local self-governments and thus violates the electoral will of citizens. That was what I said. I call on the delivery of material; as soon as it arrives, we will schedule a committee and, of course, discuss this issue and, on the basis of the competences this committee has, give an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7915	I thank Mr. Palalic. The word has the People's MP Rajko Đuric, so Mrs Verica Radeta, then the MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7916	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have answered the floor for the reason that Parliament should have, as Mrs. Radeta rightly said several times, an educational role and a function. In this regard, I am obliged to remind the words of an ethician: "After Socrates, after Socrates' death, all men, regardless of nation, race, religion, are divided into Socrates and pigs. "His father said, "without a fool looking dumbly, "that they might shine bright minds. "I have nothing to add. Unfortunately, in a brick one minute, I'm here to introduce the malts as an SS, and I'm wearing an Auschwitz Birkenau badge. In one minute, Mr Damjanovic said a dozen false things. Please read in the Roma newspaper an interview with Aleksandar Jovanovic, the father of the murdered Duško Jovanovic, so you will see what is true and what happens to him as a man, ten years after his son's murder, is happening. And, in order to remove all mystifications, Mr Damjanovic, you showed a photo of a memorial plate in Belgrade; that tablet was set up by the "Ribnikar" elementary school, not by Roma and not by you. I'll finish with this. I didn't commit, and I didn't steal, I didn't lie, that we understood each other, and the question will be, "Where did someone come from?" Please, I'm ending the plea, let's not defile the name of the innocent victim, Dusan Jovanovic, because he doesn't deserve it and let's not invite Mr Damjanovic to people who are building "Miskomertz" in order to make "Slomkommertz", who have already been reported to the public prosecutor and the people you call again, who are drug dealers, not me dictator, as you say. If you're solidarity with such criminals and tow-baths, please, it's your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7917	I thank Mr. Djuric. The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, and let the MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7918	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, article 100. Rules of Procedure: "The MP who wishes to speak about the violation of this Rules of Procedure is given the floor of the National Assembly immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. The MP shall indicate which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, is injure, that it quotes and explains what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. If, even after an explanation by the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly, without a search, will decide on the issue on the day of the vote. "So, as you can see, Mr Mr. Mrkonjic, there is no possibility left anywhere for the chairman or president to determine whether the MP should or should not quote a member of the Rules of Procedure, but the position of the 2nd member of the 100th is explicit and the MP is obliged to do so, as is the chairman, under the position of the 3rd of this same member, in the obligation to respond to the comment of the MP. I suppose we, our parliamentary group, too, that you, Mr Mrkonjic, have no authority, and in particular we assume that your opinion differs from the opinion of the President of Parliament, when it comes to this scandal that took place in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, so the SRS parliamentary group authorised me to say, on behalf of all MPs who have spoken and who, in the coming period, will talk about the Rules of Procedure, because we had no answer, to record that we were dissatisfied with not having the answer and to ask that the Assembly in the day of voting be made known about each of our previous and future injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I now quote again, but Article 226, which is the basis of my report: "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly and the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by the rights and duties of these officials and from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "I just said who I asked for an answer from, that is, a comment on what we've been saying all day, and we already talked last week about this scandal in the Belgrade City Assembly. Mr Palalic, as chairman of the Assembly Committee, was just a few days ago, so about four or five days after he was first called and warned that he was under obligation... Seven days, thank you, Mr. Todorovic. So, seven days ago, he was warned that he had to react in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Palalic now informs us that he has requested an opinion from the minister and some other authorities on the crisis in Ruma and on this case in Belgrade, I do not know who they are. I must remind you, colleague Palalic, that the crisis in Ruma and the scandal over the violation of the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, the Statute of Belgrade, what happened in Belgrade, is not the same at all. The problem in Ruma, caused by the Democratic Party and their Minister Milan Markovic and the fact that this problem should be resolved... The microphone's off. (President: I apologize, Mrs. Radeta, I wanted to remind you of the gong. Thank you, I've been so worried, I'm going to apply again to the Rules of Procedure, I haven't finished yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7919	Thank you very much. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. History repeats itself in Serbia; as at the end of the 19th century the National Radical Party Nikola Pasic was Serbia's largest local self-government fighter, so today the Serbian Radical Party in Serbia is the only political party fighting for the true rights of local self-government, respecting the provisions of the Constitution and the law when it comes to local self-government. An unprecedented farce occurred in the Belgrade City Assembly. Not only does the president of the assembly refuse to call the mayor's election, fearing the victory of the Serbian Radical Party's candidate, but the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party of Belgrade's Assembly have invented a new post at the level of local self-government, which is the function of acting mayor and acting as acting deputy. I remind the MPs that such functions do not exist under the Law on Local Self-Government. The law on local self-government provides that the mayor's affairs are being carried out by the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, but only until the election of a new mayor. Since more than six months remain until the term of office, or until the mayor's regular term of office, it is necessary for the National Assembly President Mr Oliver Dulic to rise above his party and beyond its interests and, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, to call elections for mayor of Belgrade. On the other hand, the question arises as to what the president of the National Assembly and the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government are doing, related to the scandalous behaviour of Minister for Local Self-Government Milan Markovic. Milan Markovic obviously forgot that he was only a state official, i.e. the first state official in the Ministry of Local Self-Government and that it was his obligation to defend constitutionality and legality when it comes to local self-government, and that he is not a party courtesce and party spokesman who needs his party to allow him to violently take over in municipalities where the people will not. I must remind the MPs that the Democratic Party, through the Minister for Local Self-Government, has gone into frontal action with all municipalities in Srem where the Serbian Radical Party is in power. Ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Party, the people of Srem will not show you the results of the last parliamentary elections in January 2007 unequivocally. So that I don't speak, let them speak the figures of the last parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7921	I thank Mr. Alexander Martinovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to say a few words about Mr. Shane's exposure. Mr. Shain, when an electoral assembly of the National Council of the Roma Republic of Serbia is organized, then you cannot talk on behalf of Roma Serbia because you are not their representative. The fact that you and Minister Markovic were on tour, that he took you in and he wouldn't take me in, that's something else, you're his pet, I'm not. You need to know that last year alone, you handed over your electric ballots, and Mr. Vitomir Mihajlovic, they never wanted to accept any organization, any association. Why they only received you, and we didn't, we know that. Look here, you are an appointment of an electoral assembly, before the electoral assembly should have all the representatives who have handed over their electoral ballots participating in the assembly, one meeting should be held, as we have held so far. There's no meeting there. What does that mean? The Electoral Assembly is scheduled, you're going with your electricians, and we're nowhere to be found. First of all, there's one central question we can't avoid. Right now, a new law on national minorities and the electoral assembly is in the draft. Why would the Roma ask us to run again under the old law in these congregations, if it is already under the draft law on these bodies? Why are you in such a hurry? Why should we be precedentd? The day before yesterday, we were together in kickinda and the president of international relations made the draft real and that it would soon be, and then for all national minorities it would be scheduled to have this National Assembly of the National Council. So, let's wait, don't, if you've gathered 18,000 then I'm not saying you'll win, or me or him, it doesn't matter, they'll win whom people trust and vote... Please, let us wait, to democratically escort it, by law and by the Constitution of our country and this National Assembly. When the draft law is completed by a new one, as they say, the law and the Constitution, as the councils of national minorities are elected, then we will all participate together, not as you wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7923	I thank MP Jovan Damjanovic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7924	I report to the Members of Rules of Procedures 225 and 226. Before I start talking about the second part of the exhibit that I've planned, I need you to give me an interpretation of what that means by "the draft of the law under the new law." I really don't understand that formula. I hope Mr. Vukic, as an expert on law, will explain to me so he can teach me and that all the lawyers will understand that. As far as the draft law is concerned, I also don't understand and you have to explain it to me, the Serbian Radical Party says -- there's a law and it must be elected by law, there's no need to wait for a new law on local self-government, and the other representative of the Serbian Radical Party, that's your member, not a member of the Democratic Party, says -- you know what, don't choose national councils, you have to wait, just to read, the draft law under the new law. I don't know what that is, but it's probably some new legal terminology. I will grow, but until I grow up, let those who have grown eat what they see in their height. Next thing you know, let's move on to what I was about to say, the second part that's not true. You, Mr Damjanovic, said the following - how long will you lie in this assembly? You're saying I said that the girl who got hit wasn't Roma. You say this, now I'm going to tell you -- you know she's not Roma, do you know she's Romanian? The next thing, I really don't care if it's a Romanian, Serbian or Roma child, because children are children; children have to be protected and respected, and to whom children are not equal, then he must really define what kind of thinking he has. The next thing you know, this girl was trampled after Mr. Šaponjic's statement (I don't know why he's close to you, so you were there to talk to him) - "Gazi Gypsies". To prove to you that I didn't lie either that it was a Roma child, and before that, I only presented the fact that I don't care whether a child is, once again, Romanian, Roma or Serbian, because we advocate in our programme to make it better for the children of all Serbia and children in Europe and children in the world, I will read to you one statement, which reads this way: "I, Stojko Tunculana, declare that I am a Romanian Roma woman, that my child Chuko Kristina was born in 30.10.1998 in Romania", signed by parents and passport number. I want to give you the original, to clarify who's talking about insinuations here, who's talking about the truth. This is my closing sentence. You did talk to Šaponjic, but I talked to that mother at 12 o'clock in the hospital that night, and we spoke in Roma, because she's a Roma woman and her child is Roma. Here's this statement. We'll talk about the following things later in the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7925	The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Dragan Todorovic, and the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarović, and the People's Messenger Momir Markovic, the People's Messenger Vjerica Radet, and the People's Messenger Aleksandar Martinović, and the People's Messenger Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7926	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I am reporting under Article 31st position 1 which says, "The vice presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly in the work." You are witnesses, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that last week I sent an invitation from the pay phone to Oliver Dulic to respect the Constitution and the law. Mr Dragan Todorovic has met the general public and your MPs, because we only multiply into 250 copies (minimum by 81, because we have studied it) of the stenographic notes from the session of the City Assembly... Don't think of you from the Democratic Party, especially from the Democratic Party of Serbia, who are not committees, but you know that they trade Tadic and Kostunica and that you are the blind perpetrators of their trade and tycoon activities in Belgrade... Belgrade is the city with the largest inflow of funds from the budget. This is where public enterprises deal with big business. As chaos is at my place in Kragujevac, it's nothing compared to this in Belgrade. There's one who's still mayor so far in violation of all the provisions and the Constitution and the law, in certain decisions, but to happen that you're such an faceless violation of the Constitution and the Law on Local Elections, that's amazing. I really admire you, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as you could all along, it was seen that you have invested your brilliant knowledge, effort and political experience to explain to this certain Ozegovic and Belic, but it is amazing to repeat it ten times - it cannot, either by Articles 8 and 9. The Rules of Procedure, and he goes on. It is seen and seen, therefore, that someone who has never done this job, an ordinary citizen who has an electoral right, whom you are now denying this right, sees that it is the power, the passion, the haughtiness of this Belic. You explain it in a nice way, you warn him -- don't break the Constitution, the law, call the Rules of Procedure. That's what he's saying-- you're repeating, you've got nothing left. We have to tell you ten thousand times. You think this is going to end today, too, so we're not going to do it tomorrow and the next day... We must, because you are not taking care of the state, of Belgrade, of the citizens of Serbia, we must protect the people from you. Where you've scarred so much in robbery and crime, we must protect the constitutional right of every citizen of this country so that he can choose and be chosen. You have denied the ability to elect the president of the City Assembly, who cannot possibly be an executive of the mayor's duties, which you think is the only way to do that. That's absolutely impossible. We have a defense and security committee on Wednesday. These are also questions for the interior minister, especially because of the fact, I have been warning you for days that Zoran Alimpic has been using all the budget funds. He is, by law, a direct authorising officer for the implementation of the budget. He signs orders every day. We don't know how he screws up and what he does with state and people's money. Therefore, since only one of the NS MPs is there, let's wait for Mr Velimir Ilic to return. Borislav Borovic, probably the brother of this lawyer, Borisvoj Borovic, the president of the New Serbia City Committee, also declared that there was chaos in Belgrade, that nothing was done under the law, so please let Mr Ilic come and say whether he is behind what the representatives of his party in Belgrade say. Are we, then, right, the Serbian radicals we ask for him and all the government ministers to plead and end this lawlessness? When Minister Ilic comes back to the hall, then I will see if he has anything to do with his committee in Belgrade and Mrs Filipovska and the others who were in front of the "Russian Emperor" a few days ago and who attacked Belgrade's city government and said it was chaos and lawlessness.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7927	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic and then by MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that in the end, however, some things will have to change and that the logic of the final act will in no way be applied in the event of the election of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly. To continue where I was interrupted due to the end of time, and regarding what was yesterday at the DSS Assembly, DSS President Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica said. It is clear from his presentation that the elections are not under discussion until it is seen that the Kosovo and Metohija issue will be resolved. That's your coalition partner's position in both government and Belgrade. On the other hand, the DS all the time, particularly President Boris Tadic, insists that elections must be held, that presidential elections must be held, for these others are not so important, and that they must be held by December 9th, means by the date fixed on the Kosovo and Metohija issues, because it is said, unless it is resolved, that the United States, with the help of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, will declare Kosovo and Metohija unilateral independence. I ask a logical question: who here is not telling the truth, is Vojislav Kostunica or Boris Tadic? Who here knows for sure when the election will be? Is that your exclusive right? No, there's a Constitution, there's a constitutional law by which you have to do certain things to make a choice at all. How can you convince us and the citizens of Serbia that all of this will happen? And based on your assumption that the local elections will be up to six months, you don't call the mayor's election. I just can't believe that you insist on the logic of the final act and that you don't understand what kind of precedent you're making. You, thanks to the terror of the majority, usurped the right that only you exclusively have the right to certain functions. It's very close to your senses to conclude that at the moment you don't have an election, you won't even call the election. Then what do you suggest? Do you in this way give us the right to act beyond the law, past the Constitution, to act in the same way as you do, because that's the logic of usefulness? This is good for us and we'll do it. And the fact that it's not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, that's worse by law and by the Constitution. I ask you a question - what will you do if we go with the same logic? With this act, you are slowly preparing chaos in the state, because you are giving the right to others not to comply with laws, sublegal acts. How can you invite anyone to obey the law if you don't do it, and you don't do it in the Belgrade City Assembly. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7929	I thank Mr. Dragan Todorovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, to prepare MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which says, I quote: "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "So, we are looking for an explanation, on the one hand, from Mr. Dulic why he has not yet called the election for mayor of Belgrade. He, however, has another day, two or three to carry out his obligation. I also ask Mr Palalic for an explanation, but not only for this chaos and violence that you are conducting in the Belgrade City Assembly, but also for all other municipalities in Serbia. You act everywhere in accordance with this principle of kidnapping and legal violence. Therefore, it is not only the Belgrade City Assembly, although it is of exceptional importance, since a quarter of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live in Belgrade, it is also about a number of other municipalities. I will read in my next report and what chaos you have made in the Barajevo municipality, how you have seized the mandates of the SRS board and how the mandate-immunity commission made one conclusion first, and then another. But to return to the Belgrade City Assembly, as certainly the most important issue at the moment. You're the one who got into another from one mistake. First, resignation was resigned at the 20th session of the Belgrade City Assembly. At that time, the chairman was obliged to schedule the next session at which the mayor's election would be held, and Article 14. Rules of Procedure on the work of the City Assembly. The next thing you know, because you didn't want to wait until it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to give the possibility to other committee groups or committee groups... Because, in accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure on the work of the City Assembly... I quote that too, he says, "The assembly at the first session elects the president from the committee's staff, for four years, by a secret vote," Stav 2 says, "A candidate for Parliament's president can propose at least 20 committees. "So this is why, in accordance with Article 14, it was also necessary to postpone the election of the president of the Belgrade City Assembly until the next session and give the possibility to the parliamentary groups to prepare their reasoned proposal in writing for the president of the City Assembly. That, of course, is not done. That was the reason Dragan Todorovic protested on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. You could have called your senses back then, seen your mistake and said yes, it is true, we broke the Rules of Procedure brutally, but we won't do it anymore. Instead, your answer was - yes, you're right, but we agreed. I don't know how long it's going to take Mr. Palalic and the Committee on Local Self-Government to get these stenograms, and it's all in the stenograms, all your haughtiness, breaking the law... (President: I thank you, Mr. Sarovic.) I'm done. So, your open confession that you're breaking the law. At the end of the line, Mr Palalic must know that the DSS is in power in Belgrade. So I express my surprise that he didn't get those stenograms right away. If it is too long to wait to get it from the City Assembly (it is obvious from this previous behaviour that they will do everything they can to freeze and block the process), the SRS parliamentary group can immediately give Mr Palalic a copy of the stenographic notes from the previous session of the city assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7931	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7932	Ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, this is either the most naked or, as those from the "yellow company" like to say, a transparent form of democracy. Let me explain, democracy is a dictatorship of Democrats wherever I can. Where they are not in a situation, where they have not cooked enough for the citizens, they remain in the power of the other party. Of course, they're always trying to get into empty space, at least to open up a little bit, to make a fight, so it's happening in Ruma, so they tried in Old Paz. This, of course, introduces this temporarily larger, whose life span is unlimited, as "cepter" vessels. Smederevo - more than a year of temporary measures, no elections are discussed. Smederjevska Palanka - more than four months of temporary measures, no elections are discussed. Wherever they didn't come to power like this, they're trying to impose temporary measures and then take power. Just to ask you, by the way, Mr. Democrats, what's the difference between that government that was in Smederev, it was no good, so you've introduced temporary measures, and the current authorities depicted in that provisional council? Those who have sat in the seats of the president, the vice president, to the president or whoever is there, are now sitting in the council. What's the difference in the Smederian Palace? Not at all. The only difference is that you have no opposition in municipalities to show citizens of these places how you rule. You've just arrived, under the circumstances, in Belgrade, in a situation that you're drastically violating all the laws. I'm not just talking about the Rules of Procedure of the Belgrade City Assembly, the Statute of the Belgrade City Assembly, I'm talking about the Constitution, I'm talking about the Law on Local Self-Government, I'm talking about the Law on selecting committees, I'm talking about elections, I'm talking about all possible laws, because whatever you've touched, you've broken. There's only one thing that's not clear to me, I'm reading stenograms from the town hall's session, he says -- the third item of the agenda -- a proposal for a solution to the appointment of deputy officials of Belgrade's mayor, etc. As I recall, there was an assistant. Then what would that say? The fourth point would then be - a proposal for a solution to give consent to a solution to the appointment of assistant executives, deputy officers, etc. Who are you playing, who are you making besides the citizens of Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, call the election. You were saying, come out on the line. Get on the line, ladies and gentlemen, call the election in the capital, and let's see who the citizens of Serbia vote on. (President: I thank you. I've quoted these 29 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7933	I thank Mr. Momir Markovic. The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, and let the MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared. The Rules of Procedure again? Okay. How far along the Rules of Procedure? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226 reads: "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP." It's really amazing, Mr. Mrkonjic, that we've been trying to get an answer from the authorities for two hours, consistent with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, and no one in charge is answering the question. We are forced to, until we get an answer to the issue of scandal and the gravest violation of the law in the Belgrade City Assembly, ask for a public explanation from the authorities. One of the authorities is Mr Palalic, who just said that he has written a request for an opinion or I don't know what to say but from Minister Milan Markovic. I now call Mr Palalic again and tell him that he has nothing to write with the minister, especially when we know what kind of response the minister will deliver, but Mr Palalic should urgently request from the City Assembly a stenogram from the meeting of the City Assembly since 8 October 2007 and invite Milan Markovic to leave all obligations, to come to the National Assembly, to come to the competent Committee for Local Self-Government and to answer questions directly to the MPs. That's how it's supposed to work, Mr. Palalic, the currently absent president of this committee. Why can't we get a stenogram from that session on October 8th? At least that's clear. They say they should authorize their high-minded thoughts by some participants in this session. We have part of the stenogram concerning Mr. Todorovic's exposure. From his answer you can understand what the previous one is, and that is a certain Mr. Belic, as the oldest chairman at that time... Says Dragan Todorovic - Mr. Belic, it is understood, Article 8 and Article 9; I think I heard well, Mr. Belic, your call to enter the procedure of proposing candidates for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly. You called from a pay phone - is there a proposal, does anyone else have a proposal for the president of the assembly? I would like to read to you Article 8. which says, "A candidate for the speaker of the assembly can propose at least 20 committees." (Chairman: Please finish, you're out of time.) Please report me again, I've just begun to quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7935	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I suggest to you, I assume we've brought you a lot of facts, that you will now interrupt the session of the Serbian Parliament, give us a break and consult with the President of the Assembly, and let's see how we get out of this situation. We offer you the right opportunity to continue regular work by the Serbian Parliament, but in no case can we go beyond what happened in the City Assembly. We won't allow the logic of the final act. I think at this point that would be the most complete and the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7937	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. I am waiting for the president's answer, and until then, the People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here, I'll pick up where I left off. So, through his local self-government minister Milan Markovic, the DS is trying to falsify and deny the election will of citizens, which was expressed in the 2004 local elections, as well as in the January 2007 parliamentary elections. As far as Srema is concerned, the whole of Srem is radical, and all of Serbia knows it. In the 2007 parliamentary elections, the SRS election list -- Dr Vojislav Seselj won in the Srema area 40.02% of voters' votes. The situation in municipalities was the following: In India, the SRS electoral list won 43.52 per cent of voters' votes. Let me remind you, it is the municipality in which Goran Jesic's milk and honey flow under the authority of Goran Jesic. Furthermore, Irig 38.20 per cent, Pecinci 42.43 per cent, Ruma 39.30 per cent, while the Romanian DS voter in January 2007 won 22.90 per cent of the number of voters left. Shid - 34.34 per cent of the vote, Sremska Mitrovica, 39.14 per cent of the vote and Stara Paz's 42.05 per cent of the vote went out. Of course, it's clear to them from the DS that they can't win most of the municipalities in Srem. They understand that the people in Srem do not want them, that the people in Srem did not forget what the Democratic Party did in almost all the municipalities in Srem where it was in power from 2000 to 2004. Now they're trying beyond the election, breaking the Law on Local Self-Government, breaking the rules of procedure of the municipalities' congregations, taking over. From the Minister for Local Self-Government of Mr Milan Markovic, I received an answer, and all the MPs received the answer, to the question I asked at the National Assembly session on 3 October 2007. I was in doubt for a while about whether Minister Milan Markovic was competent enough for a job he was doing or not. After this answer, I am fully aware that he is not only party-stricken beyond every possible measure, but that he is also a complete ignorant when it comes to the legal regulations governing the matter of local self-government. First of all, Milan Markovic said in a rude manner that the Assembly of the Municipality of Ruma, i.e. the President of the So Dr Ljubisa Jezimirovic of the SRS, delivered not only a report on the events at the SO session, but also resignations signed by the three former SRS council members and which are absolutely not controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7939	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. The word has a folk MP, Jovan Damjanovic, and be prepared again, Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I may have made a mistake in the accent, but you, Mr. Shane, are exulting right now. What I said was demagogy and farce, it's true, you're really using demagogy here. You brought out here for this pay phone that the pedagogogogog is in Pogorevec, because there's a place where we worked in power, asked a Roma woman how many branches a day's apple produces. Our MPs were on the scene, they talked, they took a statement from both the directors and the educators, and that's not true. Well, look how you're acting. So that's a lie. And this is the demagogue you gave; this is what you wrote, or one of you. The Roma in Romania, firstly, do not know how to write Serbian. In part, they speak, but the Roma are semi-literate and illiterate, especially in Romania. You laugh, but I'm telling you, I'm Roma, I know better, I've been in this country longer than you. You came in 2000, and I've been in this country since 1947. Second, how do you say I didn't exactly say... Excuse me, I'm talking about Roma nationality, sir, and you can come out here and talk. (President: I ask the MPs to have a little patience. You want to defend something that's not true? He's lying, and he's lying and he's lying. As far as this letter is concerned, it's terrible. As for my statement here that she's not a Roma woman, she's a foreigner. Every child, every man the Serbian people, the Serbian radicals and I respect, and we work for the progress of this nation, the people, the people and our children. Don't give the label right away, if you don't know what to say. Secondly, you say I said she wasn't Roma. Whether she's a Roma woman or not, but you can't say what's not true. First of all, why are you in a hurry now that I've asked you here officially to give us a report? Don't talk about this second report, you need to tell me what happened, what you called a cop... (The Faith of Radet, from the place: "And the chickens"? Chickens are a special thing. You said it, but you don't say it for this second part. Shajin Jan from Kovacica, 4 Masarikova Street, violated public order and peace, and struck Shajin Darka with his hand, fist, etc. You called General Kuribak. The general came and he respected the problem of the national minority, but you mustn't be dimensional if someone hit someone. The General can't come. You're calling the general, and there's an immediate dimension for someone to attack the Roma. No one attacks Roma, I'm not saying there are no situations, but there are also in the Serbian nation and in other nations, it's usually in all countries. There's no tension you're talking about. I just want to say this eventually. Mr. Shane, generals are supposed to be dealing with state problems, not judges for violations. It's terrible what you're doing. You say demagogy. It's demagogy, you're now saying that we in Serbia fight, kill, discriminate against the Roma people. In this Serbia, there has never been discrimination, not against the Roma people, but against any national minority. I'm letting there be some things going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7941	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. I apologize to Mr. Dragan Todorovic. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to meet me at the president's on the 1st floor. I'm taking a break until 13 o'clock, according to Article 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. At the meetings of the heads of Parliament's groups, with regard to the problems we had during the afternoon, we agreed that the Committee on Local Self-Government schedule an emergency session. I have just sent a letter to the president of the Belgrade City Assembly to urgently deliver an approved or unauthorized minutes from the last session. The Committee on Local Self-Government will come forward after the debate on whether or not the accusations made on the work of the people who led the session of the Belgrade City Assembly are justified. We're continuing our work. I give my word to Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of a united debate on these several laws, I am the rapporteur in front of the government for two, so I will tell you something about those two, and the rest will be my colleagues. These two, for which I am in charge, are the Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in the work relating to the Railways of Serbia - driving means, and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, concerning the Railway Reconstruction Project II. As you could conclude from the title, these two laws are practically not about the withdrawal of loans by the state, but about giving guarantees to the Public Undertaking of Serbia, which, in fact, withdraw these loans and which are obliged to return them. The guarantee itself basically means that the state is obliged not to be able to repay the loans it has withdrawn in case the Serbian Railways company has been able to repay. Now I'd like to give you some basic information regarding the bill. So this first refers to the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The amount of credit is a maximum of $60 million. The contract was signed on 14 July 2006; of course, in order to become strong, i.e. that the Public Undertaking of the "Serb Railways" could withdraw funds, it is necessary to give this guarantee. The contract refers to the purchase and financing of over 1000 cargo wagons, and the other component of the contract is to use the funds to install a new gear for the processing of points. The terms of credit use, given that it is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, are very favourable. The start of withdrawal of the tranche is in 2007, and the loan will be available to withdraw by 2010, or there is a possibility that the deadline from 2010 will be further moved if an agreement with the lender is reached. It is scheduled to pay off loans starting in August 2010, and will continue until February 2021, making up 22 semi-annual wars. The interest rate is variable and depends on the movement of the liberal on the capital market. These are basic information related to the contract, and as I said, the Republic of Serbia guarantees to the Railways that it can start withdrawing funds under the contract. As for the second contract, which is also a guarantee, it is also the Public Undertaking of "Serb Railways", which is guaranteed by the state, but this time it is not about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but about the European Investment Bank and the project is called Railway Reconstruction Project II. This contract was signed on 8 December 2006, and the content of the contract, i.e. the means under that contract, is the following: firstly, the reconstruction and modernisation of railway lines on corridor 10, then the purchase of a supporting current and, thirdly, the purchase of new freight wagons. The terms of use of this loan are also, as in the first case, very favourable. The period of repayment is 20 years, the grace period is five years, it is paid in 30 half-years of war, the interest rate is variable and depends on the movement of libora in the capital market. Given the situation in our rail traffic and the fact that these are favourable development funds, I appeal and call on Members of Parliament to accept the guarantee to the Railways, so that it can withdraw funds and implement this project. These were the two laws that I am in charge of, and the rest of them will tell you about the other colleagues, how the government put them in charge. Thank you very much, and once again I invite you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7944	We'll take a two-minute break just to get the other ministers to come to the O.R. We're continuing our work. The word has Dr Aleksandra Smiljanic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7945	Dear People's MPs, I will give a brief explanation of the law on confirming the acts of the World Postal Federation. The World Post Federation (in English Universal Become union), based in Bern, is an international intergovernmental organisation that has the status of a specialized organisation of the United Nations and makes it about 80% of the countries in the world. The Kingdom of Serbia was the founder of this alliance together with 20 other countries in 1874. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia again became a member of the UPU on 18 June 2001, as it was excluded from the organisation in 1999. The OPU binding act, which today is due to be confirmed by the Assembly, was adopted at the 23rd OPU Congress, held from 15 September to 5 October 2004 in Bucharest. The acts were signed by Serbia-Montenegro ambassadors to Romania. They entered into force on 1 January 2006, and are already being applied to postal traffic. The act needed to be confirmed and the law in Serbia is as follows: The seventh additional protocol of the Constitution of the World Postal Federation, the General Regulations of the World Postal Union, the World Postal Convention, the Final Postal Protocol of the World Postal Convention and the Arrangement on Monetary Postal Services. In the 7th Additional Protocol, the Constitution redefines the UPU mission that should enable the development of quality, efficient and accessible universal postal services. It is decided that the Constitution, as a basic act containing the rules on the structure and bodies of the UPU, does not foresee the possibility of placing a reserve. It is decided that the General Regulation should become a permanent document, not to be renewed at every convention. Amendments to the General Regulation will be introduced through additional protocols, in the same way as in the case of the Constitution. As regards the functioning of the UPU body, the General Regulation provided for the establishment of a advisory committee, as a new permanent body of the UPU, which should represent the interests of the extended postal sector on the international agenda. A revised member of the Postal Security Convention has been adopted to strengthen the trust that postal services enjoy in the public and to facilitate the exchange of information between Member States on means of guaranteeing the security of transport and transit of postal consignors. A new terminal cost accounting system is approved, which includes two subsystems: the target system, which applies to industrial countries and the transit system intended for developing countries. The target system is based on the principles and provisions of the World Trade Organisation. Developing countries can access this system. Our country, as a member of the UPU, has a reduced cost of calculating transit costs by 60% of the total economic price. So far, postal obligations for the first half of 2007 have been settled towards other countries and amount to 315,000 euros. A very important decision for the development of postal services in developing countries, contained in the Convention, refers to continuing to stimulate the development of service quality through the UPU Quality of Services Fund. Fund financing is based on the participation of industrial states with 7.5% of terminal costs for the needs of developing countries. This allowed the Post Office of Serbia, as a public postal operator, to have around 600,000 US dollars for quality development projects. Congress also approved arrangements for postal cash services. The Bucharest arrangement contains new provisions relating to the UPU electronic network and the quality of postal service. By adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia is given the opportunity to participate in all the benefits provided by YU-P-YU to its members, as well as the smooth functioning of postal traffic. To implement this law, financial resources are needed to pay the annual membership fee of the Republic of Serbia to the World Postal Union, and they are determined in the Republic of Serbia's budget for each year and are currently worth slightly above two million dinars. There, that'll be all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7946	There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7947	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. So this is the announcement that arrived at our parliamentary club, anonymous sources of the Roma Party – a meeting of the chairmanship of the Roma Party held on 7 October at the "Sport Academy of Balašević" restaurant in Rakovica. Why was the meeting of the chairmanship of the Roma Party held at the restaurant? Now everything will be clear to you. That's because Mr. Rajko Djuric changed the lock and brought in four bodyguards who paid for the Roma Party's money. He's the only signatories and he's the only one with the party's money. What was going on at that meeting on October 7th? The meeting was attended by 13 members of the presidency of 15. Only Mr. Djuric and his nephew Sasa Simic were not present. At the Bureau session, it was decided to discuss the confidence of Mr Rajk Djuric as president of the Roma Party. All 13 were present for Rajko Djuric's shift and have sent an initiative and a proposal for the main committee to be held on Sunday, October 21st at 12 pm. So, you don't know the meeting place because Mr. Djuric, they say, usurped the premises and replaced the cylinder. So these sources tell us that most likely Mr Rajko Djuric will not represent the Roma Party in public for much longer. Thank you, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7948	Dear People's MPs, I'm setting a break of one hour and continuing our work at 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7949	I give my word to Master Velimir Ilic, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7950	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, item 28 of the agenda -- high performance rail network in Southeast Europe. What's this about? We had the opportunity to enter this project years ago, but you know that we had sanctions, that we had problems, destroyed and destroyed infrastructure, and that we took off these cooperation programmes in Europe. Southeast Europe wants Serbia's railways to enter European railways ready for infrastructure and vehicles and for traffic to take place on European criteria, which have long been known in Europe. However, we are now meeting these criteria and some of the credit lines we have received will fix this situation and bring it to one appropriate level. I'm glad we got the chance now. For this agreement, it is necessary to simply bring into the Serbian parliament and that the Serbian railways enter the family of the Southeast European railways, to speed up traffic, to bring cities together, to speed up traffic at border crossings and all that Europe requires of us. We have a 29th point, it's a COTIF agreement, which was simply designed to end what I'm talking about now, to speed up traffic, to bring it to a European level and to adopt certain standards and laws that are respected in Europe and to become part of the family of European railways. Of course, to bring all this into order and control, this Convention on International Railways has been adopted, which defines all of this. The headquarters of the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Railway Transportation is located in Bern, Switzerland. That OTIF controls this whole system, which is what we're talking about right now. I hope that there will be no misunderstandings and that we will agree to adopt this, and that Serbian railways enter the family of European railways and operate according to the criteria that Europe is looking for. You know that we also have corridor 10, which is significant for Europe. Corridor 10 serves Southeast Europe and we are in the rail system, but in order to get out we need to have means of driving that will meet the criteria set out by the European Union. We applied and tried to make the Belgrade track - at least be a short corridor 10. We hope that this will be dealt with in a favourable manner, by obtaining the Belgrade-Bar railway as a break of corridor 10; that was on the threshold of a solution before the sanctions were imposed, but after the sanctions were imposed it was removed from the agenda. We also wanted the future highway of Belgrade -- the southern Adriatic, which will be built, to become a short corridor of 10, because all conditions have now been met. We hope that the Ministerial Conference for Transport of the European Union will allow and declare that these two directions are shorts in corridor 10, so that we would have the possibility of lending certain infrastructure facilities and on the railways, but of course also on the road. Vehicles are necessary to Serbia, because, I repeat, during sanctions we couldn't renew all this, we had one period of destruction of railway infrastructure, of vehicles, and now we're in a position to put it all in order. You've seen for yourself, we've got credit lines to improve our current situation. I hope you can support this, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7951	Thank you. I am informing the National Assembly that representatives are authorized on these agenda points: for the Democratic Party MP Predrag Umicevic, for the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica National MP Dr Vladan Vukicevic and for the Socialist Party of Serbia MP Milutin Mrkonjic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7952	I apologize for interrupting the session, reporting for notice, Rule 226. I made one mistake earlier. I apologize to Mr. Shane. The president of the Roma Union of Serbia is Rajko Djuric, the president of the Roma Party is Mr. Shin. Mr. Djuric will soon be removed from the post of president of the Union of Roma Serbia, and I can tell you that again. The Bureau meeting took place on 7 October at the "Sport Academy of Balaševic" restaurant in Rakovica, because Mr. Rajko changed the lock and brought four bodyguards to protect him from party colleagues and paid for it by the party's money. He's the only one with a deposited signature and he's the only one with the party money. The party's presidency meeting is scheduled on Sunday (October 21st). What did they decide on October 7th at the meeting? 13 members of the Union Presidency of Roma Serbia attended the meeting, out of a total of 15. Not only were Mr Rajko Djuric and his brother's son Sasa Simic present. So they unanimously made a decision to have him removed, but it has to go to the board of directors. The main board will be held on Sunday, October 21st at 12:00 p.m., there is no place known because they have to determine and agree. Mr. Rajko Djuric usurped that party room, so that Mr. Rajko Djuric will be the president of the Union of Roma Serbia for another time, a short time, by Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7953	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a parliamentary question for the Serbian government, for the Minister of Energy – is it true that Mr Kirin, director of the NIS Representation in Moscow, was last week attacked in a masked uniform, as they say, abducted a bag containing a million euros? Is that the reason for the closure of the NIS representation in Moscow and the opening of the Zurich branch? First of all, where does a million euros in a bag represent when it's all done through an account? Secondly, is it true that this is being prepared in Zurich for Zeljko Popovic; I don't know if the chairman of the board of directors or the director is, in general, preparing for him a slow detachment, at the same time being unreachable to the law enforcement authorities when the Democrats come down from power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7955	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7956	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable fellow Members, the Honorable Ministers, we have before us a set of laws on railways and I would like to speak in the package, about a complete set of laws. Maybe it's best to look back a little historically. About 120 years ago, and a little more, in this parliament, in the Serbian Parliament, there was the same issue, the railways. At the time, one important decision was made on building a railway in Serbia. It was a tough session. Historiographers claim that with one vote it has voted more to build a railway in Serbia. The opposition then claimed it was not good to build a railway, as it connects Serbia with the West. Everything that's bad comes from the West is about as rhetoric as it is today. However, no serious country can develop its economy without the presence of the railway. Exactly, when we favour exports and when we want to raise this country's exports, it's that branch that's damaging the country's external trade deficit; definitely, without the railways, things are impossible to do. At that time, they say, the quality of communication in parliament was similar to today. Today we've heard everything and everything. However, what is sadder than the quality of communication in parliament is the sadder quality of rail in our country today. A few days ago, in the paper, the professional public informed Serbian citizens that the situation in the Serbian railway was such as about a hundred years ago, that trains in this country are moving very slowly, inadmissiblely slow. For that very reason, I would ask that a set of railway points be spoken of in a little reverse order. I'd start with the COTIF. We heard when COTIF was founded, among the signatories in Bern was SFRY, we signed this agreement. The agreement speaks of simple harmonisation of regulations and anything that defines the work of all parts of the railway, I would not detail it. In 1992, unfortunately, our country is, we know for what reason, suspended from the COTIF membership. In 1999 a new COTIF was brought in and in 2001 the SRJ became a member of the COTIF. Today, it is before us, representatives of the Serbian Parliament, to vote, I hope that there will be no problem, that the state of Serbia will also be a full member of the CoTIF and thus become part of an international railway network on Europe's territory. Of course, this applies to Southeast Europe. The second agreement is an agreement on the establishment of a high performance network. The agreement should raise the level of quality, it defines the level of necessary rail quality in Southeast Europe so that we can communicate with the rest of Europe. There are members of all countries in the environment. It is a fact that the number of kilometers of railways that need to be replaced today is increased; today it is necessary to replace 480 km of rail urgently, innovate. No country the size of Serbia is able to finance the construction of a railway on its own. The high performance agreement should define which quality of the traffic is to be achieved in order to achieve the speed of movement of compositions 130km per hour through our country, i.e. from Nis to Belgrade in less than two hours, and now that is over four and a half hours. Normally, it is expected, because this country is located in a very interesting geostrategic place, to invest in another track. This will certainly be the subject of some new loans and prospects for railway development in Serbia. Now I'd like to talk to you about the guarantee agreement. Here you can see the complete chronology guarantee, railway reconstruction project II, the first railway reconstruction project and it's over and in front of us it's just this loan. That's what I just said, Serbia is not able to self-inflicted by means of a project like this. I honestly believe that after this loan, there will be some more loans, that the level of quality of rail and rail we have is raised to a higher level and that we have a two-wheel rail through Serbia, where we will be able to transport certain amounts of cargo. The question is whether or not we want to do it and how do we determine ourselves? However, there is something that we should take very seriously and be a topic of work, we talked about on the committee here in parliament. Other countries around don't wait. One Bulgaria, one Romania, was granted a new corridor by Europe. It may be the most "political" corridor, if I may put it that way, on the ground of Europe. It's a corridor four. It's just, while I've been here for the last 15 years, I've been especially talking about the 1990s, when all our memberships have been suspended... So it started with building corridor 4. We're witnessing that a contract was signed in June to build a bridge in Vidin. We simply have a detour that, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, bypasses Serbia. Someone once left a place for a track on Gerdap. It is a chance for us to put this corridor 4 in this corridor 10 and for Serbia to retain the primate in the geostrategic sense in Southeast Europe. Corridor 10, which represents road and rail, is very important to strengthen in this railway sense, because it represents another developmental opportunity for this country. Corridor 7, Danube, is also one chance and without a good railroad we will not be able to develop the quality of the presence of Corridor 7 through our country. Namely, in the port of Smederevo, where I come from, a trade transport study was carried out with a view to the gravity zone of Smederevo Airport in 2003. Then we did a study that showed that the capacity of Smederevo port is 16.5 million tons. This number definitely doesn't tell you anything, but if you have any idea that the port at least last year overloaded less than three million tons, that Kopar port is carrying an annual load between nine and ten million tons, then can we figure out how important it is that we are in the port of Smederevo and in the other ports of the Danube doing this job resulting from this geostrategic position? However, we will not be able to do so unless the other modes of transport are strengthened. Basically, what's an onion? A place on the waterway of a river where other types of transport, which are railways and roadways, are being loaded from water to land and from land to water of a certain kind of goods. I'm just about to inform you, as a Smeder, that last year, about seven million tons have been overloaded in Smederev. It's one record for any Serb port. If we strengthen rail capacity and road capacity, this country has a good chance for other industrial developments as well. That is why railways should be seen from a broader point of view, because rail in Europe is not the most profitable everywhere, but it certainly represents the backbone of the development of the economy, firstly, as well as industry, normally, and exports and everything else that raises the industrial development of a country. The next contract is the first one to come here in a row, and this is a guarantee agreement for "Serb Railways" -- a vehicle. It's also raising the quality of rail services, and that's getting the wagons. The Democratic Party has not participated in the creation of these two documents, but will certainly support them because this is necessary. It is known that Serbia's railways are missing about 2.5 thousand freight wagons and this amount of 1,100 wagons, as it says in this document ahead of you, is currently insufficient, but without it there is no quality Serbian railway. We're going to have to deal with a similar topic in the near future over and over again, and maybe another number of cars, but about that, when we look at the development of the railroad, what we're going to do with the restructuring, that's some latter topic. In the end, I'd like to say a few more things. We see that it is a very serious business, we are talking about railways; over 120 years many parties and parties have come through the parliament of Serbia, but the railway represents the backbone of one country's development and should be watched as well. It is necessary to define the rail development strategy in order to determine quality of rail development. We have an obligation in this transition period to define the rail restructuring plan, which is what we've been looking for, and that's the plan that's been made. This should highlight what has been positively done, that the Railway is a public enterprise that has reduced the number of workers. It's not all about being criticized, it's about commending what's well done. It is also necessary to do an innovation of the Action Plan, so that we know where the funds of Serbian citizens are going. The action plan currently in force is 2006-2010, with the obligation to implement the innovation. As far as I know, no innovation has been made for the period 2007-2011, but is being prepared for 2008-2012. I would like that document to come before the MPs very quickly, in order to properly identify some kind of substituting means. Then, I would like to think, in one way, not in the same way, not in the same way as the other, strategically, about the development of the railway, about the master plan being a backbone, because the master plan just shows what kind of railway we can develop in Serbia's territory and thus make a quality decision. The Democratic Party will support all of these points I've talked about, all of these four laws, because it's very important that we make a decision as soon as possible. You saw in the material that the government's decision was made last July. From then on, knowing what the trend is in the price of cars, as a result of the rise in the price of steel in the world market, we have a situation that for this money standing before you we will not be able to buy 1,100 wagons, but below 900. It's the loss of slowness and the lack of work. After all, it is a criticism for both the MPs and this previous parliament, because this has not been brought before, a smaller number of wagons will be bought. This is the responsibility of Parliamentarians to adopt this agreement as quickly as possible and to make good steps for the development of the railway in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7957	The word is from the MP Slobodan Maraš, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7958	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you regarding the violation of Article 98. Rules of Procedure and please stop my time while I quote. "The president of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when he determines the lack of quorum at the National Assembly session until the quorum is secured. The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly in order to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. The President of the National Assembly shall interrupt the work of the National Assembly in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the continuation of the session. "Mr. Albianic, you were the chairman of the moment when you set a break without any reason, or you didn't give us an explanation, as I recall, or none of these three positions of this member were fulfilled when you set a break earlier. You didn't find it appropriate to say that the reason the minister who was supposed to report on the draft law that's on the agenda isn't in the O.R. You set a break when it's not her time. I want to hear from you an explanation of why it happened, which is in accordance with Article 100. Stop my time, if you don't mind. (President: Mr. Marash, you'll have to finish your exposure and leave the pay phone, so I'll answer you. While I'm here, let me say something about the railroad. A moment ago, Master Ilic said that we must accept this bill for the simple reason that we must enter Europe, unite with Europe etc. However, I would only like to know which country we live in, do we live in the same country, Mr. Ilic? You said the railroads were for pride. I don't know who could agree with that without being in his right mind. Also, you announced the reconstruction of all railway stations by September 15, 2008. We don't need reconstructed and painted railway stations, we need fast tracks, and we don't have fast tracks. You said 10 percent less late passenger traffic, and 20 percent freight when it comes to railways. Yeah, but you didn't say they were ten hours late. The fact that he's 10 hours and 10 minutes or 10 hours and 60 minutes late doesn't matter. Also, you said the railroad was safe and the safest kind of traffic. I'd just add that the railroad is as safe as the press is safe in your vicinity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7959	The one hour break is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is, as we're used to, common between 14 and 15 hours, and can be determined at another time. I took a break in order to carry out the necessary consultations or get the appropriate opinions, and we also used it to be a one-hour break. Should there be a vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure on this matter? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7960	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Ilic, we believe that this debate cannot be brought down to a narrow aspect that is covered by the proposals for decisions for which the Government asks us to support. Of course, as representatives of citizens, taking care of public interests, we would also like to support the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement on the establishment of a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe and, at the same time, the consolidated text tabled by the Parliament of the Government, or the proposal for a law confirming the protocol of 3 June 1999. But the question arises to what extent we are actually moving away from reality by discussing these two points of the agenda. Do we, who, on behalf of the public interest, wish to support these two Government proposals, ignore the fact that the government's representative for these two agendas is directly opposed to public interests, takes care of your own personal interests, the interests of your party or the interests of a coalition that is so unnatural, that you, respected colleagues from the Democratic Party, who led one of the most radical campaigns against Minister Ilic here today forget what you said about him and expect us to, like you, push our heads into the sands like the Noves. So, before we discuss these two points of the agenda, we have to answer, and that is simply a question, in which way can the public interest be realized if at all times it is subordinated to the individual interests and interests of one party and one coalition. What businesses of this country should age and realize the projects for which we give you, as Parliament, the green light? Is this about "Serbian Railways"? It's about the railroads of Serbia. Is JP "Serbian Railways" a private party company or a public enterprise? It is the private party company of Mr. Ilic and his party, which they have come to with blackmail and politics, in the same way that someone else has reached "Telecom", to the Serbia lottery, to the National Bank, to the "Comercial Bank", the EPS, the NIS, "Serbia", "Serbia". This approach is, among other things, your clearest contribution to the finding that we spoke of when there was a debate here on Kostunica's new cabinet. That cabinet for us was neither pro-European nor pro-democratic, nor pro-reform. This, meanwhile, has been confirmed in the clearest way and by this division of prey that the parties have been fighting over for the past six months, as if it were the most important thing in this country, just as at this point we need to discuss the proposals sent by the Government here, without having the elemental willingness to answer simple questions. Is this proposal represented by Mr Ilic, who is the same person that has been discussed so many times in this House and in our political life? Or is this some new Mr. Ilic who has nothing to do with Mr. Ilic, who is clashing with journalists, with police officers, who are divided by a person between Guca and Samantha Fox, who imports us through a butic locomotive and a rail vehicle, who places his friends on the most important functions in public enterprises in this society. So is it the same person or not? If this is a new Mr. Ilic, then we want to believe that it is possible to achieve public interest and, for example, by adopting a convention on a network of high performances, to contribute to the creation of an image that we want to create about our society, as a society that is highly technologically developed. We've heard there's a 10% decrease in backlog. Today, from Belgrade to Nis travels longer than in 1884 when the two cities are connected by the first railway in our country. We have heard that all of this is in favour of the European orientation of our society. At the same time, all the actions of this government are deeply anti-European, and so are the last ones that led us to be expected to support the private project of Mr Ilic's party. We can't agree on that. We cannot agree with the principle that is acceptable to the ruling coalition – the one who appoints the director, he has received the public enterprise. It is then not a public enterprise, it is then a party enterprise and it is not founded either in the Constitution or in the laws, but it is due to the political need and the microcry that the coalition that was made to rule the country has led you to change the country. This is precisely the function of that, in order to consolidate one power, one order, and not to change the order by being the leader of these changes. What we need to say here right now is that we can't even challenge the need for Serbia to get a vehicle moving at a speed of 160km per hour. We cannot dispute the need for Serbia to adopt the protocol after eight years. We can also less believe that Mr. Ilic is the person who will lead us to a vehicle that moves 160 kilometers an hour, because he has thus organized his private company that this company is now run by his favorite coffee shopkeeper; his paths are run by a person who is under the most serious suspicion of crime in his company and who is tried in front of the Special Court of this country, and that no one, even the moral responsibility for such a thing, is borne, just like this other barista who gets killed every day by someone on the railway. He does not think of taking responsibility and, among other things, resigning from the table because he is unable to organise the company as he would have had to. We care about plans, orientations, ideas. How will Serbia get close to that ideal and the 160km-an-hour rails? That's what we want to hear. Can anyone explain that to us? Who's gonna get us there? Will this government bring us? It seems to be a mystery. We must, before we engage in a debate on the details of this proposal by the Government, and by one, and by the other, and by the third and the fourth, ask the question - who does this parliament guarantee? Private Velimir Ilic? Out of the question. Mr. Ilic's private interest? Out of the question. His political need to build a public enterprise, among other things, the kind of political reputation he needs for his uninterrupted political activity, in a false way? If it can work in other situations, it can't. Mr. Ilicu, it's not a railroad from your native Athens or from where. If you were able to create a society from Serbia where it is possible to show up with a shovel of asphalt and catch a hole before each election, then after the election, ask for a record that people will express their gratitude for you for doing your job, you cannot expect us to agree to such a principle here through the debate you have started. So, arguments, not fiction. Not fiction, not illusions. It's a shame the Democratic Party is doing. What does that look like? It's not a public company. What principles have you come to this public enterprise? How did the director get elected? Is the competition organized? Were there any rules in this country? Have we put those rules together, and you as part of the ruling coalition? Are the directors elected in public competitions? They did. And big and international. Did these companies run professional persons or party companies? Professional. The director of NIS wasn't a party person. The EPS director wasn't a party person. JAT's director was not a party person; the director of Belgrade Airport was not a party person; the Director of Post was not a party person. We can count it like that, list it... Was that enough? That was a good start. This tradition was to be preserved, developed and affirmed by the principles of professionalism, which were harshly trampled. If we have to talk that way about everything, then here is not the theme Velimir Ilic. Here are the topics of those who have agreed to the rules of work of Velimir Ilic. JP "Serbian Railways" is not a company operating in line with public interests. It is an enterprise that operates in line with the political interest of a party to which the company is assigned, because it is blackmailing its MPs a government that, without these MPs and their support, cannot function. In this triangle or quadrilateral, everyone is being blackmailed, to the extent that no longer one can talk about respecting Serbia's interest or Serbia's needs. Serbia's need, Mr. Ilic, is that you, as a person who has no professional reference for the work you do, and your job is extremely responsible, are dedicated to you to the arteries of the transition of Serbia, resign. Resign and understand that resignation, among other things, and as a chance that you may have more time to kick journalists, to insult political opponents, to deal with political insolents, to cheer up the people, but not as a minister and not as someone who seeks support from parliament for such a policy. If we are to choose between lying to society, to whom this assembly is so inclined and so many times implemented in parliament that it has become a rule of our work, and one great not, not this, because the precondition for achieving international conventions is the return of Serbia to the system of values characterized by the time and time we belong. This government directly opposes all standards of the 21st century and in 2007. So, first your resignation, then the resignation and change of government, then the choice of responsible government that will have a sense and a public interest tax, the formation of public enterprises through their depoliticalisation, their restructuring and the absolute support of LDP you can count on in that case. If you need support for resignation, you have it, and if you are looking for support for a continuation of work that is characteristic of you, given everything that is your political heritage, then you do not have our support, you have our active opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7961	The word has the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7962	It was my pleasure to listen to the young gentleman who brought out his high skills and knowledge of traffic and everything in Serbia here. However, the young gentleman recently served as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration. He didn't bring in one dime of credit. While he was vice president of the railway government, they were always strikes. I remember that very well. A young gentleman who knows everything here, knows everything, asks for responsibility from everyone, I would like to remind him that only two men have introduced New Serbia's Railways in New Serbia: the Director General and another assistant. All other frames have been held to this day. The railroad is looking for expert personnel. When on the railway, Mr. Jovanovic, it can't be done in two hours, as you think, as you make your great staff and great experts and you sell fog in Serbia. That's not right. So please, we're thinking about a serious topic, Mr. Jovanovic, whether I'm a railway expert or not, let the experts say, take a look at the results and you'll see. The European Bank has supported all rail projects, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank for Development and Reconstruction have given the highest marks, Mr Jovanovic, for the railways, and the restructuring of public enterprises has the most advanced on the railway. Therefore, an empty story should not be told, Serbia is full of it. The railroad is lost everywhere, the railways don't use one dinar from the NIP, the railway works, they manage, and only uses subsidies and downsizings to one normal extent, as foreseen. You know we didn't have any vehicles. The affairs of the Swedish trains, that's what I want to tell you, are your work, Mr. Jovanovic. You took pictures of cars that we cut and make exhibitions. Today, "Swedish women" who travel with Serbia are the best trains. I was recently in Leskovac, where management asked us to send at least one Swedish girl to use. Therefore, currently the best locomotives in Serbia, the best trains are those imported from Sweden. Mr. Nikolic, this is a serious story. I expect you to be a serious man... I don't want to comment right now. I suggest you consult Mr Jovanovic, he will give you an expert opinion. Therefore, there is no need to tell empty stories here. We are gathered here to present something to help you with the Serbian railways. Serbian railways are in the restructuring process. Dependent companies, which monitor railways, have largely gone into the privatisation process and we expect to bring these credit lines to European level. It's true that there are parts that haven't been reconstructed, but there's not enough money. You know a kilometer of construction costs about a million euros. We'll secure the money, of course, but there are some programs and projects as it goes and how it can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7963	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7964	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Ilic, I agree with you that we are discussing serious issues, but it is a prerequisite for serious debate and the seriousness of the participants in the debate. So you can say absolutely everything about me from this assembly speaker, but you can't say anything good about your work. It's true that you brought two men into the railroad, but those two destroyed the whole railroad. That's actually what this is about. You don't have much support in our society. Your support is counterproportional to the damage you're creating. I was one of the critics of your business policy at the Public Undertaking of the Railways of Serbia. What you called "Swedish women" is what I called locomotives and I hope it's not a lapus. You imported locomotives over a passenger, aged 21 to 25, no tender. You insulted a journalist who asked you why you broke the tender. You've justified it with some higher interest, but you've never defined that interest. If we want to talk in a serious atmosphere, then you must contribute to the seriousness of our work by treating Parliament seriously, and the first step in changing your behaviour is to actually declare a clear position on whether "the railways of Serbia" are perceived as your private property or as a public enterprise. Which way did you get to "Serb Railway" or "Serbia Road"? Are the people who run these two public enterprises your partner employees, the same-minded, your epigons who behave in this society the same way you do, who insult your coalition partners, who humiliate their employees, who threaten the interests of our society? It is true that our railways are in catastrophic condition. That is why our country's relationship must be much more responsible. We've offered you a way to recover our railroad. First your resignation, then the resignation of the people who strayed into these public enterprises, given their qualifications, their working experience, and, more importantly, their results, they are devastating. If we talk about what Serbia knows, do you think there is a need for quotes. This is the Assembly, a language that is characteristic of you and your politics, for your everyday performances is not a language that a decent man serves in a pub, let alone in parliament. I will not quote you, because it would be an insult to every decent man in this room, but I will repeat our request again – resign and take with you all those you have brought to power, because you are the biggest obstacle to the transformations that we are talking about here today during this assembly debate. And you, colleagues from the Democratic Party, realize that the high price you set for this support will be a price that will be paid by our society much more than you yourself, thus becoming similar to those you have fought for years, from Milosevic via Kostunica to Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7965	The People's MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7966	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226 and an explanation. I think we have some previous questions, and in order to be competent to discuss these points of the agenda, I'm going to ask for explanations and answers to these questions. Namely, is it true that the average speed of trains in Serbia today is 44km per hour and in Western Europe about 300km? Then when are we gonna get there? Is it true that the train at the Belgrade-Nish route went at an average speed of 45.5 kilometers an hour, and today, 123 years later, 44.7 kilometers an hour? Is this a debate on the time machine, is this a debate on "events today"? When it comes to railways, we're watching some kind of railroad old-timer race. What are we talking about? I'll give you one of my experiences. May I have your attention, please? Three months ago, I was traveling by train on the Amsterdam-Groningen route and I was staying at a station called, I don't know if I'm going to say it exactly, Arahen. Time to cross from one train to another is seven minutes. I asked the man who sold the tickets-- sorry, what if the train was late? A man looks at me in the dark, like, how the train can be late. It's the reson of Western Europe, it's the reson of the modern world. You can never miss the train here, because he's always late more than you expect he can be late. Finally, once again, I ask the question, gentlemen of the DS, I see that this is a little entertaining for you, but you have been years back against Mr. Velimir Ilic, you have been the most glancing of public enterprises directors "Srbijaputs", Mr. Jocic and the director of the Railways Mr. Sarancic. Here, what I quoted, only one more sentence was in the letter of Dragan Gilas, exactly two years ago on today, Prime Minister Kostunica – Mr Sarancic says that he deliberately bypassed the tender because he is wasting his time, shamelessly announcing more of these purchases. Gentlemen of the DS, think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7967	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Belic, then by Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7968	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, mentioning in a negative context. So the party I belong to is mentioned, New Serbia, and the party president, Mr Ilic, and it concerns exactly what Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said. I'll just stick to that sentence of yours – which is Minister Ilic, whether it's a new one or an old one. I would just turn that question around, so I would personally ask you the next question – is that Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the DOS parliamentary club, who inaugurated the fraud and theft system in this House? Is it that Cedomir Jovanovic, who was one of the prominent leaders of the Information Bureau who became the para-state institution and the most important institution in this country, where decisions were made in the narrow circle of people? Is that that Cedomir Jovanovic whom former comrades, friends, accused of very close ties to the mafia, with Cumet and your other party former friends and associates? Is this the Cedomir Jovanovic who spent so much time in Central Prison, again with his former friends, more than at work in the government? Is this the Chedomir Jovanovic who was most often seen at parties in Schiller's, more than where he was supposed to work, as Deputy Prime Minister? Or is it that vice-president of the government - I don't know if you were a high school student at the time or if you graduated when you entered as Deputy Prime Minister, and it doesn't matter much at the end - whose mandate is only marked by this walking passage in front of this building and, I suppose, your contact in the bank? Is it that Cedomir Jovanovic whom the late police minister has so badly qualified? Is it that Cedomir Jovanovic who propagates a new system of values that would include fast and easy money, a pleasant life, of course for selected individuals? Or, Mr. Jovanovic, is it one single fact that wherever there is a man who thinks well of this people, the people recognize it, wherever there is a man who is concrete in his work, with his results, the people recognize it? Wherever you appear, the people must first tour or pass the cordon bodyguard. I don't know what your life is like, but I know, and once I said it, or twice, Mr. Ilic goes alone or with his driver to every end of this Serbia and the people there want him and recognizes him. It's probably a big problem, but you have to think about it, not us in New Serbia. Finally, New Serbia's MPs will present all concrete data and arguments that will contribute to our view that this set of railway laws should be supported. We're not going to be dealing with this, just to remind you of what kind of personality transformation this is all of a sudden after that three or four years. I said, we'll just go back to concrete data, not the ones that the Ministry of Capital Investment did, and you've had a chance to hear and see, but as far as the railroad law is concerned, you'll hear a lot today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7969	The People's Messenger Slobodan Maraš has the word, and then the People's Messenger Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7970	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Master Ilic, I have reported in connection with Article 226. If you allow me to quote it, since the President of the Assembly asked for this last time: "The MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on matters under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP." I was going to say that the gentleman who appeared before me resorted to what he was constantly resorting to, especially in the ranks of his party: the moment you attack someone's policy, when you attack the results of a work that doesn't exist, then only the accusations that come down to personality come out of your mouth. There's something I'd like to ask Master Ilic, while he's here, or I'd like an explanation. What do you expect the director of the Public Enterprise Roads to do, and the people who are employed in the company, when you say in front of the public, the cameras have recorded it – I told them to steal a little bit, and they've gone too far, so you can't steal that much, etc., otherwise you'd see through your fingers if you'd stolen a little bit. Do you think Mr. Jocic will listen to you? There are also transcripts of the talks that you, Mr. Jocic and the people who are under it, who are deeply involved in the road mafia, people who stole millions of euros from the citizens of this country. The Liberal Democratic Party then asked for your resignation, as well as Prime Minister Kostunica's resignation, since you are the two most responsible for the appearance and success of the road mafia. You say Jocic and Sarancic are successful directors. They may be successful directors for you personally and for themselves. One more explanation, please, if you can give me, or answer my question, and I believe this will be the first time many have heard it. The moment the road mafia fell apart, i.e. when thieves were caught in action, across Serbia, in thirty cities, companies dealing with cutting grass along roads and highways and, behold, all directors of these companies are from New Serbia. I'd like you to tell me if that's true, if that's how you've now tried to work for the interests of Serbian citizens. If you remember, some people came up this summer, thousands of them, and the only firms that can get that job are newly established firms that are registered for it and, I repeat, the directors of these companies are from New Serbia. Is that a way to help the citizens? I don't think so. It's a way to rob the citizens again, but we've been taking it from you for three, four, five years, since you've been minister in the previous government and in this new one.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7971	The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have reported to Article 105: "The President of the National Assembly is taking care of the session of the National Assembly." I ask you not to tolerate any more, Mr. Albianic, personal insult, because all of this we have done as we have always done, not speaking of anyone personally, but trying to point out some things that, in our opinion, are important. I think there's an abuse here right now, which we're used to. So, every time Mr. or Mr. Ilic, Minister Ilic asks anything suspicious about the work of public enterprises or the ministry, he or she attacks and starts to fight or go off with personal insults, which we now see in charge of New Serbia's MPs here. What is important to us, what we think is important and we ask that it is not misused, here it is asked by the MPs of this assembly to vote on a resolution that will allow a state institution to take credit. We agree with all the findings, that this institution needs credit, it doesn't need anyone to convince us. However, we will not allow anyone, on our behalf and on behalf of this Parliament, to take credit or donation, and then no one alive can ask what happened to that money. That's what we're asking the Democratic Party, where did you get the right to go out and ask us to vote for something that you fought most against from all of us? I'm just going to quote one thing that makes arguments about what I'm saying. It's not about our personal relationship with Mr. Ilic. That relationship should be of no interest to anyone. I will quote to you a statement by Mr. Ilic in the pre-election stands in the village of Radinac in May 2006: "You are very dirty here, but I will take care of it. What is it for me as a minister to steal five kilometers of highways and to pave the whole village." I'm asking you if you're asking us to support someone taking the money and then using that money to suit them in the election campaign? I'm sorry, it won't work. It will not be possible on behalf of this Parliament or on behalf of this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7973	The People's Messenger Milena Stankovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I came forward after being provoked by a statement that Mr Ilic was happy to see a guest in Serbia. We know that Mr. Ilic has the custom of traveling around Serbia, but it is not true that he is happily seen by a guest. It's not enough to come to one city, for example in Kragujevac, from which I come, after a great storm, when the wind took the roof off the rails, so to say - I'll handle it all, we'll cover the railway station, and you think that's the problem of the railway, as well as the needs of Kragujevan in relation to the railway. The minister and government should create conditions for railways to operate, create conditions for Kragujevci and all other Serbian citizens to travel by rail. The minister should create conditions for the railway to be safe, fast, and not, as Mr Batic said, to travel by train now slower than in the 19th century. What you are doing, or what Minister Ilic is doing, is lax and it can be estimated that to Mr Ilic the government is actually a purpose, for the simple reason that nowhere in your relationship with the railways we do not see you taking care of the citizens and their needs. On the other hand, and how you use your position to steal, to lie and to use the different privileges that this position brings. What I would also like to point out, and what it shows... (President: You need to stop a little bit. Please keep in mind what terms you use for the congregation speaker. ) These are all the terms Mr. Ilic used publicly. In addition, what is very important and what this parliament needs to know is that there are 2300 railway crossings in Serbia, and only one-fifth of which is marked by signal-safety devices. That means there are no defenders and half-defenses in places where they should exist. As a result, more people are killed annually in Serbia at these spring crossings than anywhere in the region. It's your responsibility and that's what you're supposed to do. We're talking here today about some conventions that are conventions for the 21st century railroad. What we have in Serbia is the 19th century railroad. Therefore, I ask you to get serious and, what is very important, which our president pointed out, of course, to resign. It's the wisest and most moral thing you can do right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7975	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7976	Mr. President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Ms. Stankovic, you've made a truly notorious lie here. I'll answer you right now. We released a spring pass on Friday with ramps and bumpers, and you know where on the bypass around the Kings. So after 30 - 40 years, the Kingdom’s citizens welcomed us to make a tour around the city, in which practically 40,000 refugees and displaced persons came. On Friday, we released a bypass around the King and a spring pass within that bypass. So, four or five months ago, we let three spring crossings into the King. I'm reading information relating to the King, because I'm coming, as an MP for New Serbia, from the King. Mr Jovanovic, at the time of your term, no single railway crossing on this section has been opened, and I will also tell you that the electrification of the Čačak railway - the King is working fast and ending. Mr. Marash, on your suggestions, some haircut, directors, you've given so much authority that it's something amazing. Such directors in New Serbia do not exist. You'd better deal with your board in Novi Sad, because three or four times in three months you're changing committees. Yesterday in the press we read... Just read what Mr. Milosevic of your party said about you. So we won't talk about it anymore. As for other things, New Serbia MPs will absolutely support today's agenda. We here today need to do serious things, which are primarily these four points of the agenda, which we're going to vote for. Of course, pay attention to the fact that someone on the side and the local public is following this session and we really need to stick to the agenda, and today is the point of Serbia's rail agenda, not Serbia's roads. I'll also tell you that what we're going to do today at the last point... (The Belief of Radet, from the place where you won't vote?) You said you'd vote for four, and five's on the agenda. I'm sorry, I was wrong. I made a lapus. So, as far as OTIF is concerned, it is an Intergovernmental Organisation for International Railway Transport, an extremely important point. Since 1 August 2001 we have been a full member of this basic international railway organisation. Today we want to ratify and confirm this item of the agenda, as well as the COTIF convention. Lawmakers of New Serbia and the Democratic Party of Serbia will support this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7977	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7978	Mr President-in-Office, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 98 paragraph 2: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion." I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that you suspend this debate and schedule consultations in which we would try to agree on the way this debate will take place during the upcoming session. This is not a topic for the Serbian Parliament. Given the way it became a rule of work for Minister Ilic and his government, this is much more of a topic for the New Serbia Assembly, not for the Republika Srpska Assembly. Because if we're talking about "Serbian Railways", it's not a public enterprise, it's a company owned by Mr. Ilic. Finally, for which such a permit would be granted by parliament, when, in no other case, Mr Ilic does not ask permission from the competent institutions. The last example is a clinic that he illegally started to build near Cačka. There are MPs and MPs in this area, and I think everyone knows what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, meanwhile, they had opportunities to meet both citizens and citizens of the whole of Serbia. We do not think it is moral to ask parliament to support the policy that is to this extent privatised, such as the privatised policy of Mr Ilic. Why are we actually supporting? It's not for an atypical, unchaste, at this time against the law, but it's an absolute job that is directly opposed to the public interest. It is true that Mr Ilic has brought only a few officials, since his party is gone, into institutions and important state positions, but has provided each of them. During a period of technical government, so during the period when the government had no time to talk to the UN president who was in charge of resolving Kosovo's problem, Mr Ilic assigned apartments to his assistants and directors. What did Mr. Sarancic, as director of the "Serb Railway", task this country to return the favor by giving it to him? Did some professor get it, did he get some talented young expert who needed this country? Did some artist get it, too? Did he get any of the refugees, any endangered families? No, it's New Serbia's directors, from the technical government, that's what this is about. This is a topic for the New Serbia or DSS Assembly. You could have discussed that yesterday. It is not for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, as long as the public interest is threatened and subordinated to party and personal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7979	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, and then a National MP Vladan Vukicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. All conditions for normal work of the Assembly are met.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7980	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, report for violations of Articles 100, 104, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to quote, and I'm not going to quote the members referring to the course of the session. It would take me half an hour to quote all the members that have been broken so far. Now I would just stick to Article 98 of Section 3 which says: "The National Assembly President interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. "Today the work of the National Assembly was interrupted because the minister was not in the O.R. He's not here again. I demand that the session be suspended until the minister arrives and participates in the debate concerning him and the restor for which he is in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7981	The minister is currently away. He'll be right back. There is a word from MP Vladan Vukicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, concerning the discussion of Parliament of Milena Stankovic, Kragujevchanka. Why? As an MP from Kragujevac, I know well what the consequences of the storm are and what the Kragujevci had to do after that storm to eliminate these consequences. Mr. Velimir Ilic is one of the first ministers to come to visit and see the entire situation in the town of Kragujevac and to come out as a man as a minister of infrastructure to meet the town of Kragujevac and help citizens. Visiting all those roofs, and there were plenty of them, part of the housing unit, private house, clinic-patient center, medical school, business organization, he also visited the train station. He said, which is normal, that the effects of the storm will be removed. I'd like to know what's wrong with that. Is it bad for a minister, elected by the voters of all Serbia, to go to a vulnerable place and, of course, help vulnerable citizens and a threatened environment? It should be commendable and so should all ministers. On the other hand, I would like to introduce Mrs. Stankovic, an MP from Kragujevac, to the fact that thanks to the Minister of Capital Investments, Mr. Ilic was made five kilometers of highway. It's a strategic matter and an important share for the Kragujevac. A approach was made from Petrovec, a approach to the town of Kragujevac from the Kings, and a whole section of Kragujevac - Kraljevo road was made. Also, thanks to the ministry, assistance has been given to pave the way for all streets in the town of Kragujevac that connect regional roads. Simply, the Kragujevac, thanks to Mr. Minister, has received quite a bit in the past period. There are MPs here who resent. They forget that they were also high-ranking and that they could do it for Kragujevac and boast – during my high-functioning behavior I did it too.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7983	Mr. Vukievich, please. The word has a People's MP Dusan Bajatovic and then a National MP, Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7984	My colleague Kolundji asked me where I recognized myself. Thank you for the creamworth, colleague of Kolundji, I have recognized myself in article 104. I don't know if this offends your intelligence, but it offends me. In fact, I answered because I'm bored, which is what LDP and New Serbia MPs would keep saying, let me get that, maybe I have something to say. So I'm tired of hearing each other's heavy accusations here. Come on, people, let's call once here the Home Office officers who are going to write down all these accusations that we're making to each other and start already this Special Court to work, to stop LDP and New Serbia from campaigning for this pay phone. I've been waiting all day to say five sentences and I want to vote for this here. You've been bored with both God and the people. That's what I wanted to tell you. That's what others do, but we've gone a little too far. That's why I called because I really can't listen to what's been done in Kragujevac anymore. Why wasn't Velya paved in my flat village, but only in Kragujevac? Let's say you use some terms here, and when I hear the word 'expert' here, it's for me a man who, thanks to his party's support, who once again has that opportunity thanks to the blackmailing capacity within the coalition where he works, gets the opportunity to do certain jobs in order to gain personal and party profits. It's probably not exactly what "Wuyaklia" says. So, come on, if I can't get to the word that I'm going home, I don't need a diary. I'll call tomorrow at 10:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7985	The word is made by the People's MP Slobodan Maras and then by the MP Milena Stankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Wait and be patient, Mr. Andric. First Alexander Marton, then Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7986	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I apologize, until now I have not welcomed you. I just wanted to say about Article 98, Mr. Chairman, Section 3: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that's what the Assembly concludes. "You've just fooled the public and said you've been working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you haven't. Please do now according to the Rules of Procedure and take a break until Minister Ilic returns. I only have one question - where did Minister Ilic escape now? He just had some urgent business, but where is he now? Did he escape because of these criticisms related to his work or does he keep doing it? I don't know what to tell you, he's very interesting. I must say, we've heard praises here at his expense, how the highway works, etc. Anyone who goes from Novi Sad, from the north of Backa over the bridge at Beška is aware that there is a high probability of a car accident, because there has been no light signalling for a month and a half. For a month and a half, it's been done that way, and officials and workers whose minister, the gentleman who had just escaped, pulled out the yellow tape across that bridge and did not put any light signals on. At night, when we return from congregation meetings, we do not see any way to go. The other day we had an accident on that highway and I believe and pray to God there will be no new accidents. Please, if there is a minister, or a man who is working with him, I assume he is a close associate, to take a little care of the citizens, and not just to take care of the directors of public enterprises, which we mentioned earlier. Interesting is this theme of the Horgos - Požega highway. Most of all, it bothers the attempt that Minister Ilic and his associates wanted to perform, which is a substitute for the thesis that someone is attacking what is being made of the highway. No one attacks, we even welcome the way the highway is made, but not in this way. During the follow-up to this debate, we will present new details concerning this concession and ask for the responsibility of Minister Ilic, however many times it takes, and to resign, but before he must return to this hall and we hope that it will be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7987	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milena Stankovic, and then by the People's Messenger Alexander Marton, according to the Rules of Procedure. I really ask all the MPs, we have 26 registered speakers, to enable those who want to talk about the agenda to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, is true, Mr. Ilic has visited Kragujevac and observed the situation; he has seen that the situation is devastating and all he has done is that he has made it possible to buy one 200 creps to cover the railway station building in Kragujevac. On that occasion, he was supposed to consider the situation in Kragujevac a little bit better, so he could see what all those railroads that were once full of trains looked like. We used to wait 20 minutes to cross these tracks, there were so many great compositions that brought parts to Kragujevac, i.e. "The flag" for various cars, but all this tells us about how serious and working town Kragujevac was and how it was created in Kragujevac. Unfortunately, at this point in Kragujevac very rarely comes trains, so here is one information for Minister Ilic, who is not here, but here is for his colleagues who listen very closely to me: for example, this train you spoke about and which traffics at Lapovo - Kralje every day is 120 minutes late, and the train that traffics on the Batocina - Kragujevac route every day is 45 minutes late. What's very important and what's getting out of sight here is that it's not the minister's task, and that's what I just said, that populistly it's going through cities where everything's gone wrong, including railways. The Minister's task is to create conditions for the railways to work. On the other hand, the government's task is to create conditions for Serbia to work. Unfortunately, it's not here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7989	The People's Messenger Alexander Marton has the word, and then the People's Messenger Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7990	The Honorable Chairman, since Mr Ilic is not here, I would ask him, under Article 226, to answer me in writing several questions that I will ask him. First, I would like Mr. Ilic to explain to me in writing what he said in November 2006: I explained to these people on the highway 15 days ago – people, you steal a lot, you steal a little bit, and you see through your fingers, but you exaggerate. I'd like Mr. Ilic specifically to explain to me what the words "steal" and "steal" mean. Mr Ilic would like to ask what he thinks about the statement by the vice-president of the Serbian government, Mr Bozidar Djelic, who said in January this year: "The Monetary Fund report reveals how much it cost us to pave the way for the time and for the elections. Serbia's roads have 22 billion dinars in debt. A huge part of it is in interest. And what was done was just to get as many votes as possible, and you know who got them. Obviously, someone has paved the way for religion, and the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia will pay. "The last question, I would also like Mr. Ilic to answer in writing, although we have heard that some journalists have had a very negative experience in the previous days. In fact, the Republic Committee for the Resolution of the Conflict of Interests initiated proceedings yesterday against the relevant minister, Mr Ilic, on suspicion that while he was the minister of capital investment he acted contrary to the law, because the construction of the clinic began before the construction permit was obtained, and supervision for the implementation of the law was then carried out by the Ministry of Capital Investments, whose head was Velimir Ilic. In writing, if the minister is not here, especially to pay attention to these terms - theft and theft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7991	The People's Messenger Ivan Andric has the word, and then the People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic. I'm asking you to really get back to the agenda, and I'm asking the Assembly to invite the minister to come to the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7992	Article 98rd position 3 and many other members, but, Mr Albianic, I do not know what service you have called from the many services to introduce Minister Ilic here. (President: No insinuations, Mr. Andric, please. Please don't throw it at me as I speak. I take responsibility for what I say, Mr. Albianic. Article 98 paragraph 3: "The President of the National Assembly shall interrupt the work of the National Assembly in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the Assembly. "So I ask that the National Assembly immediately declare that the debate is not conducted until the minister attends the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7993	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Ivan Andric, from the place: Can you answer me? ) According to Article 98, the president of the National Assembly may set a break, which means he does not have to. Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7994	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Smiljanic, I must warn you, Mr. Albianic, that you are making a mistake similar to that you made during our spring session here as a representative of the Government, the Director of the Republic Secretariat for the Legislatives Mr. Balinovac appeared. We then suggested that you not test our willingness to remain consistent in the defence of the policy that led us here to parliament. So, don't test our willingness to fight for the respect of the basic principles of political decency this time. Here is the seat of the minister, who is obliged to answer the questions raised by the MPs in accordance with the agenda points we are discussing. At no time have we discussed Mr Ilic's private life, we have not discussed his party activities outside the context in which his party appears covered by these points of the agenda. We mentioned very clear examples that we cited as an explanation of our opposition to the way this debate is handled and the objectives that this debate was initiated when the government asked parliament to support these two guarantees. How can we support Minister Ilic, while ignoring what is Mr Ilic's political heritage, what are the results of his work? Did the minister refuse to make public, make a concession available to Serbian citizens on the construction of the Horgos-Požega highway? There were different reasons, but if I can cover them with one finding – the nature of the work is such that citizens do not have the right to believe in the character of this business arrangement. One month, two months, three months, and 50 pages of 1,300, eventually four annexes remained unpublished, everything else was published. When was Minister Ilic right – when he claimed that it threatened the character of the job or when he gave in to public pressures and agreed to publish the document, although not entirely? We're giving one guarantee here, confirming the convention, on whose behalf? On behalf of the citizens of Serbia. For whose account? For the account of Mr Ilic's party, for the account of his ruling coalition, which is guided by its own personal interests, and not the interests of this society, that is. You are now appealing to us here with the ambition of us participating in the debate. We've been doing it for an hour and a half. Where's the minister? Make sure he didn't accidentally enter any of the Serbian Railways; if he did, then he's near this building, we'll easily find him, and he won't get where he's headed. So, if you want a serious debate, let the minister show up here. We guarantee you that nothing will happen to him that he would have to fear, only arguments, facts and a uncompromising fight against the policy he symbolizes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7995	People's MP, Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7996	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I must again quote Article 98: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it finds the quorum is missing. "That's not what we're looking for. "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. The President of the National Assembly shall interrupt the work of the National Assembly in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. "I think this is attitude 3, you can schedule the consultations by attitude 2, but let's get Minister Ilic. I know you've been doing this consciously, so for 30 or 40 minutes, you let him be gone, so you can call him through the authorities, then it'll be 30 or 40 minutes again until he shows up, all to avoid the answers to the questions we ask him. We need to ask him a lot of questions. He just said he hired two men in the railroad. I know of one, that's that Charanchi, the favorite barman. I want to ask him if the other person is his secretary, who, at the age of 25 and high school, has become a member of the Management Board of the Railways of Serbia. Here's the minister. I don't call on Article 98 anymore. Mr. Ilic, we were worried you'd run away, but you're here. That's great. I wanted to ask you why you had been distracting the public for months and did not allow her to see the concessions of Horgos - Požega highway. You've tried your best to show that someone has something against that highway. No one has anything against the highway to be built, but it's against the way you guys gave concessions for that highway to someone, so you pulled it around, stretched it. Now I can think of you as stretching over the fact that you were waiting for another concessionaire to get into business. Speaking of which, I need to ask you a few questions: who's actually going to build a highway, who's responsible for the contract of commitment? Look, the value of that contract is, you said, one billion. Who is responsible for the provision of a concession agreement for the introduction of another concessionaire? Please listen carefully. Who pays the concession fee? Who's responsible for maintaining that highway? What's the dynamics of the works? How will the toll be tariffd? Who had a crucial influence on the inside... Look, that's very interesting. So the founding role of concessionaires is 20m euros, and the value of the concession is one billion; in that concession it is stated, so in one of the annexes that we have not been able to see, that only 17% of the participation in the capital of the concessionary is allowed. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7997	Since, as I said, the minister has been absent for a short time, I think the conditions have been made for us to continue our work normally and that we do not need to report to the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone answering the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7998	I'm glad, Mr. Nikolic, we know you're smart, that you know everything, but I didn't go out for the boss, I answered when the boss wasn't here. But it doesn't matter. I just want to pick up where I left off and tell MPs Stankovic it's a sad fact that he came from Kragujevac, that the Kragujevci voted for her and that he resented the minister for helping the Kragujevci. It's a sad fact. For what part she wants to see and doesn't see, and wants to see a large number of trains, as she said, they used to go to the flag and now they're not going, she shouldn't ask for clarification and explanation from the minister of infrastructure, but should ask for an explanation from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. Why Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic? Because in 2001, life stopped in the car factory, because there was still a reduction in these large compositions that went to the car factory, and they are not there today. Then he was head of the DOS Parliament Club, then vice president of the government. During this period, the famous society called the Employment and Education Office of Workers was formed, i.e. A company was built that had workers and had no product, so those workers had to sit at home, receive personal incomes and, of course, the state to finance them. That's when the compositions stopped, maybe something before that. Therefore, you are asking Mr Cedomir Jovanovic for an explanation, why, during this period as a senior official, on DOS wings, did not make these compositions even more into the flag, so that they would be new compositions, so that they would be new railways, that these tracks would be expanded and so on. Kragujevac is grateful to Mr. Ilic for helping, which he proposed to the government and for not paying some 200 creps, according to Mrs. Stankovic, but for giving 20 million dinars to repair the roofs of the victims after a natural disaster, which paid 18 million dinars to the Medical Faculty for repairing the roof and for making X efforts to make the citizens overcome the problems they did not blame, and they were unable to do so by their own means, and in a similar situation in which they are located, they removed them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u7999	The word has been made by MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vukevic speaks of the assistance given to Kragujevac after a natural disaster, as something that is not the task and work of the government and the ministry. So, let me remind you, Mr. Vucicevic, it was not Minister Ilic who paid out of his pocket and paid off the money from his account, but rather the money from the citizens of Serbia and Kragujevac, who at that time were really there and should have been given to those who were affected by the elemental disaster. Don't make it so important to your minister. You may be grateful to him, but these praises and that "thank you, Minister" is really degutant. As for what the citizens of Kragujevac think of Mr. Ilic, I will not go into it, but I will remind you of what your coalition partner is, and the Mayor of Kragujevac, Mr. Veroljub Stevanović, your great friend, once said, "He does not cross, he does not come to Kragujevac." So much for the relationship between coalition partners. As for the economy in Kragujevac and the economy in Serbia, that is one big problem. If we want to talk about it, we can look for the roots of the disaster that hit Serbia in the 1990s. However, what is indicative today and what needs to be underlined is that there will be no modernisation in Serbia, that there will be no functioning of neither railways nor economics nor anything else in Serbia until we are able and strong enough to break up with the system of values of the 1990s, which you, your minister, your party, and the rich and coalition partners, return to Serbia. This is what the LDP is saying every day in this House and what it will always say. What I'm going to remind you of is that we were the ones who spoke about Mrs Natalija Ćatovic, your Topola staff, who celebrated herself, not to mention how, in the 1990s. When we talk about the return of the system of value in the 1990s, I must remind you of the scandalous intervention of Mr Ilic in withdrawing the indictment against Marko Milosevic, when Mr Velimir Ilic used his authority of the party president to make the guy who previously charged Mr Milosevic with serious threats and causing physical injuries to change his statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8001	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, and then a National MP, Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8002	The Honored Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, members of 225 and 226, respectively, of the fact that MPs should be informed. My presentation should be considered as a question for Mr. Ilic and in some ways an answer for all his apologists who have tried to justify his actions in one way or another. I would also refer to what Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic said. He mentioned crossing points to Chačka and Kralje, as the ultimate achievement of what the ministry did. Did anyone remember to mention Nis, as one of the largest railway crossings in Europe? A colleague from the Democratic Party spoke about the historic approach to the railways, and I will have that approach. The main hub in Nis, inevitable, located in the centre of Nis, is called the Triangla and was built in 1941, made by the Germans for their own purposes. For what it took the Germans years, and in the war, it took us a few decades. No one thought to ask, and I would ask that question, which is why none of the six projects to solve the railway knot were seriously considered? I would like to remind you that, when the Ministry showed a flagrant lack of interest in this problem, the city of Nis had to form a task force that was supposed to trigger this problem from a dead end. Meanwhile, Smiljko Kostic, an exponent of New Serbia, came to the mayor, otherwise persona non grata in the United States, a man who is banned from entering the United States and who is a persona non grata and in some countries of the European Union. So, when he became mayor of Nis, he totally froze interest in this question, this question no one asks, the solution is not seen. That's why I want this to be considered a question for Mr. Minister and in response to all those who are his apologists.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8003	The word has the minister of infrastructure Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8004	Mr. Ambassador, I don't think you're being directed. As far as the Nish bypass project is concerned, construction is under way. The biggest investment on the railway was in the NK region. For the past three years Nis has received 18 bridges on the Niš corridor - Dimitrovgrad, completely new, built; reconstruction of the Niš - Dimitrovgrad complete rail; complete change in infrastructure; new railway site in Dimitrovgrad; reconstruction of all along the way, because this is Corridor 10 and it had priority. The biggest investments were that way. I don't want to break it down with you. I don't want to break it down. I want a young lady from Kragujevac to answer. The largest investments on roads in one region were in Kragujevac. New ways were made from all directions. Don't be distracted, young lady, you're full of hate, some anger. Of everything the Kragujevci asked for, no project was rejected. From Batocina everything was reconstructed, it was done five kilometers towards Batocina, all the way to Vratjevšnica, to Milanovac, all the way to Knic, and now it ends to Kraljeva, to Mrčajevac, in all directions it is all over. All of the city's traffic stations have been reconstructed. You can't recognise a Kragujevac in traffic over the last two years. So, you just talk, and I'll work. The people have spoken theirs, and they will say theirs. Don't be too long, you "princess," impatient. You'll never be in power. You'll never be in any government. You are, frankly, a major problem for Serbia and the Serbian people. The people know what they're doing. You've passed a little in that group now, when you're gathered, and you don't know who your boss is, and you don't even know who you are, and you don't want to talk. Young sir, you said I didn't want to go with you... I don't want to go with you, I know your extra qualities and I don't want to have any contact with you. I'm not from your story. You have your company. Therefore, you will be pleased. You have the Light of Steps, he's your partner, not me. I'm glad I'm not in your story. Don't be angry. I'll listen to you, I'll sit and listen to you as long as you want, I won't be angry and I won't react at all, you've seen it yourself. I just want to remind young Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, you remember how many times you asked me to help you, remember October 5th when you chased me and said, "Ilić, they won't let me install the sound, help me" etc. You remember, Mr. Jovanovic, that I have been tolerant to you, both at DOS and always. I liked you. I see you've gone all the way to the other side. I don't know what's wrong with you. You're so hateful. Slowly, there will be elections, run for office. Your party will get what it deserves, all of us will get what the people will give us. So, Mr. Jovanovic, list one thing you did as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, except for this pedestrian crossing, in your three-year term. I'm telling you, three thousand kilometers of roads in Serbia, the people know it and they won't forget it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8005	The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Article 226 - People's MP has the right to request notice and explanation, etc., that I do not read now. So, to say what I came forward for, I demand that the minister without a portfolio, in charge of the National Investment Plan, Mr Dragan Gilas, explain what the answer was and what an epilogue case he opened on October 17th 2005, when he sent a letter to Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. So I will quote that letter and explain why this is important information for all MPs in the Assembly while this agenda is still going on. "That's why I'm asking you to show me who and how is run by JP Railway Serbia, given that its director, Milenko Sarancic, gave a series of lies last week by misleading taxpayers, citizens of this country, from whom the money of the Railways of Serbia is being financed." Gilas asks in his letter: "How is it possible to sign a contract for the purchase of trains and locomotives from Slovenia and Sweden by emergency procedure, and to ignore only the competent Public Procurement Directorate" etc. I think everyone remembers. I think it is very important that all MPs get the answer to this question while we still have a debate on this agenda point, for the simple reason why we are asked to allow these same people to use some money again. I ask you to insist with that minister that as soon as possible we get an answer to what has changed, so he believes today, and the MPs of the party from which Mr. Gilas is also asking us to vote, to trust some money, even though we do not see or perhaps are not able to see what has changed. Since public enterprises... Mr. Albianic, do you want to be here, I don't understand... (President: Go ahead, Mr. Andric. You're distracting me. So we're looking for an answer to this question, given that this party is asking us to trust the money again, and last week, public enterprises are again divided according to the feudal principle, and we're sure that none of the DS will be able to give us the guarantee that they'll be able to control how that money was spent. That we expect control from members of the media is not possible either, because I think most of them are afraid at this point to ask Mr. Ilic a question. I'm asking you to get the answer from Mr. Gilas as soon as possible. I ask you, Mr Albianic, that when someone has these illusions such as Mr. Minister, according to the MPs, prevent it from doing so in the future, because you are responsible for the functioning of the session of the National Assembly and for maintaining order in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8007	The People's Messenger Vladan Batic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8008	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 226. I would ask Mr. Minister to answer the previously asked question, which was very polite, with regard to the average speed of trains in Serbia of 44km per hour. For your information, it's usually the average speed of the cyclist race "Tur d Frans". So, the trains in Serbia are going at the speed of the bike. Do you know, Mr. Ilic, that it's usually seven times slower than trains in Western Europe, and we've read the previous days in the paper that we plan to lift that speed from 300 kilometers to 450 and 500 kilometers. It's the facts. One question: do you know, Mr. Ilic, and that information I received from the Director of the Property Directorate, that 18% of state property is owned by a railway. Eighteen percent. Do you know how much money that is? In many cities, it is in the city centre, from Belgrade, so in turn, let's say, the former route of the popular "Cira" railway has grown into thorns and weeds, a garbage dump. Isn't it better to sell it than to take expensive loans and really, in some perspective, maybe far away and make some fast rail in Serbia? This way, I think it would be best if the existing railway network were turned into a museum exhibit, that tourists from all over the world came and, since the Wild West is gone, to remind themselves that once in the Wild West, there was a rail traffic going on, and Billy Kid is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8009	The word has the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8010	I highly appreciate Mr Batic and his efforts to help the railways be better. Here, I'll answer this question he asked. In Europe, there are only two railways that have a speed of over 300 kilometers per hour: one is Paris - London and the other is in Germany. It's just two stripes. On average, the highest speed on the rails in Europe is 150 km per hour. Please, that's the data, Mr. Batic. The other thing is that we have low speeds, but the EU, when the Commission examined the railway in Serbia, asked for one piece of rail in eastern Serbia to be thrown out of traffic in central Serbia, because there is no transport, it does not want to invest in those railways. We talked to local authorities and local leaders asked for these railways to remain in traffic; these railways were not reconstructed, part of a railway in Vojvodina, one in eastern Serbia, in southern Serbia and central Serbia. These tracks have low traffic and reduce significant speeds. Otherwise, the railways on the corridors have speeds that are quite decent for this part, railways on corridor 10, railways Belgrade – Bar, quite decent traffic. We're making an effort to fix it. The track was reconstructed until Užica, which is an extremely large resource. I repeat, the complete reconstruction of the railroad is about 80% of the cost of building a new railroad. We need to reconstruct all the tunnels in Serbia. The tunnels on corridor 10 have been reconstructed in part, remains on the Belgrade-Bar track. Therefore, all of this takes an extremely large amount of resources. Serbia does not have the means. You've seen, in the NIP, no dinar is separate from the railroad. Why? It has been said that we will work railways, as the EU insists on this, by credit lines. That's why we're going to these credit lines, to fix it. There's no point in telling stories here right now. The theme is very interesting. There are 150,000 people working in the rail system. The whole metal complex is tied to the rail system. Therefore, building 1,000 wagons means a lot to Serbia. He's gonna hire a lot of companies that do that. I would like to answer one of the MPs who said that a year has not been done, that it is waiting, etc. Unfortunately, we did not have a parliament meeting for over half a year and could not come to the agenda. If the Assembly had worked neatly, these credit lines would have come much earlier and we would have already been in the stage of reconstruction and construction. So the topic is very interesting and there's a lot to talk about. Mr Batic, when you were Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the railways didn't work at all. This is an extremely large shift. Every month, strikes were from 15 to 20 days on average. So let this job be done and he'll do it right. They know Serbian citizens are a railway problem, but Serbia's railways will stand on their feet, and they're already stopping. Please, it's not a big shift, because big shifts require big money. It is true that some railways, such as Loznica - Valjevo, need to be completed, but it takes 200m euros. The question is how and how to provide so much resources. You know how much a locomotive costs. When we arrived, this previous government and this one now, Serbia needed 2.5 thousand cars at once, Serbia needed 50 locomotives at once. It's an extremely large asset. For these credit lines, we fought, we did studies, we had more conversations, we had meetings, we convinced the banks, we took the localities to look at it and look at it, and here, it ended up. I repeat, there were prior credit lines; about 200m euros were spent on the reconstruction of corridor 10, so Belgrade -- Uzice and Corridor 10 Nis -- Dimitrovgrad and this section towards Nis. The reconstructions run according to the railway program, but the program has to be respected in order to shift traffic to other directions, then it has to go into the phase to work part by piece. It is a programme implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8011	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group is really paying attention to today's work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's something we didn't know from your relationship. For example, I'm really interested, Mr. Ilic, did Vladan Batic call you one night and say, "Well, we fell into the flag," do you have anyone to let us run the flag? I know it was, I'm just asking to confirm it. It's the flag that produced 28,000 cars that year, and now it boasts that it imports 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, to free the state from customs, and it's a product of the flag. So, it's nice this way when these little strangers lead the country, when they accuse each other, when you big government people keep quiet and listen, when we're the big ones from the opposition and we're listening. Serbia fell for this when Mr Ilic says - Cedo Jovanovic, you will never come to power. Why not come when he has the same number of votes as you? What if he doesn't come, what's to stop him from coming to power? He can't run a railroad? He can't asphalt? Even though he doesn't know how to pave the way? So, we'll get involved in this debate tomorrow. We really want to make a contribution to the whole debate. I'm just asking DS MPs not to stay silent, so it doesn't turn out that you've changed the program. This is the same Velimir Ilic from a month ago, from two, from a year ago, from five. This is Mr. Ilic, the personification of the Serbian minister who disrespects the ministry employees and does not respect employees in public enterprises, who does not respect anyone who cannot convince him that he has done something. Velimir Ilic is a personification of DOS and you cannot escape from it. So, Mr Jovanovic, this Velimir Ilic, one night, was invited by Zoran Djindjic to come and take over a ministry. Somewhere along the way, they just... In fact, Velimir Ilic also asked for what he later received from Kostunica, otherwise he would have been a minister in your government. So whenever you talk about Velimir Ilic, all of you from DOS, talk about yourself. When Mr. Ilic speaks of you, he speaks of himself. Always keep that in mind. Until that vicious circle ceases, we will suffer these sessions of the National Assembly. We're not good with Velimir Ilic now. In the next term, it won't be good for anyone else, you won't be good for one of them in one term, and in another, what does Serbia have to do with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8013	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8014	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, Mr. Albianic, you are having a hard time understanding with this expression of the person to whom you have sent my arrival for this speaker the importance of the debate. This debate is obviously a problem for you. (President: No, Mr. Jovanovic. That's what you look like. We just suggested that you step out of the victim's position by organising consultations that, in accordance with Article 98(2) as representatives of the parliamentary groups, we will agree on the way this session will continue. We have cited very clear reasons why we find it totally unacceptable to discuss the proposed points of the agenda, until the relationship of those who are proposing this agenda towards society is changed according to public interest. I see that some MPs here don't understand politics, that they don't understand each other's relations. It's the only policy with the result of a policy that can run itself for debate here. The results of the policy that we need to discuss are not such that we can put them in the context of public interest at all. They're completely private. Private railway, private roads, private airport, private JAT, private EPS, private NIS, private post office, private Telekom. Who decided that? The coalition of power. Then let them meet in their congregations, yesterday one party had its own congregation, and let them discuss and discuss it there. If they want us to discuss this in parliament, then they must show a sense of public interest. That doesn't make any sense here. Instead, it is alluded to by the MPs. Is that something that denies our right? No, quite on the contrary, it gives him an additional argument, because a man who does not have the elemental respect to respect parliament in such a way sends a message about his relationship with society. It is no longer enough that Velimir Ilic's political legacy is to challenge his relationship to such an important business as he is today. We can add to that his, today's demonstration, qualities - leaving the session when it suits him, returning when it suits him, insults at the expense of the MPs, presented in the same way as they are to all other citizens in our society. That's why there's no trust. You're not talking about public interest, you're talking about your own personal interest. We asked a few questions during this debate. First of all, because you're expecting some gratitude for the work someone's been doing. You didn't do everything you could do. Far from it. You have dedicated yourself exclusively to the business of which you have personally benefited. That's why you can count it a mile, because every time it's done, someone's built you a monument, a thank-you record, just because you're doing your job. So it's very clear, Mr. Albianic, if you want a normal debate then provide the preconditions for such a thing: a conversation between the heads of parliament, as discussed today, an agreement on the continuation of the session and then a reasoned debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8015	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr Jovanovic, 23 MPs have reported to him during the afternoon work on the Rules of Procedure. They spoke for the congregation speaker. In no way did I, as chairman, influence the course of the session. You chose how you'd present your report to the Rules of Procedure. So, you're trying to report to the Rules of Procedure to influence the course of the session. So, and I'm not in the mood, I'm just running this without any influence. The word is from the MP Slobodan Maras, according to the Business, then the MP Vesna Pesic, according to the Business, then Vladan Batić, Ivan Andric, according to the Business, Vladan Vukićević, Miroslav Markicevic, Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Businessman...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8016	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr. Master, reporting in connection with Article 226, or I'm looking for an explanation. I was in a situation earlier that I had to interrupt my presentation, or my question regarding the concession. Now let's get back to the railroads. I wanted first to point out the gentlemen who defend Mr. Ilic by saying that he did this and that -- you can't treat the money used by that ministry as if it were Mr. Ilic's money. It's the money of all the citizens of this country. Unfortunately, he was given to management in the ministry, but it's a fact. We spoke here, Mr. Ilic, that indeed the director you posted at JP "Serb Railways" had obtained locomotives over the butys. It's a common-known truth. Also, he got them... (President: Mr. Marash, you've been answering and repeating the same thing for the fifth time. ) Not true, you have mixed up a number of MPs and certain statements. So no tender. Also, you said then that this tender is nonsense, that law is wrong and you won't respect it, and that's true. You said you hired two men at the Serbian Railways JP. One is Mr. Sarancic, and is the other your former secretary, who was appointed member of the board of directors? I have to point out that the reason why we've been reporting like this is because we want to point out one thing. You can't tell us about the road to Europe with the help of the railway when really Serbian trains go slow. It is not true that only on certain parts of Vojvodina and Southeast Serbia, trains go below average. The other day, the train from Novi Sad, more specifically last Monday, was three hours late for Belgrade. That's completely insane! And you come here and tell us how you planned to paint all the train stations in Serbia by the next 15 September. It's the last thing we need. We need faster railways, people who are able to run such a public enterprise and people who are willing to take responsibility. Unfortunately, all this time, you've shown that you're incapable of taking responsibility. The only thing you're capable of is threatening and insulting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8017	The word is made by the MP Vesna Pesic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8018	I would like to ask Mr. Ilic a question and explain a little bit what this is about. It's about you, Mr. Ilic, representing yourself as a man of the people who doesn't want to talk, who works and who has success in the work. You know what? I do not dispute that you are working, it was not a problem, that someone resents you sitting, doing nothing, but that it is about how you carried out those tasks and how you plan to implement this Agreement on the establishment of a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe. It's about that. Now I'm asking a question, if there are any charges against you as a minister, which have been brought here and which you have failed to make... I can remind you of what I heard in public, but without any evil intention of insulting you, it is true that those wagons were bought without respecting the Public Procurement Act, whether you slow it down or not. I heard you personally when you said it was an out-of-date law, that the law should be changed, that it could not be applied and that you did not respect the Public Procurement Act. That's what we're talking about here. In addition, the other day, you yourself admitted that no one from some MP's club accuses you of maliciously, without arguments, you yourself admitted, when the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest made a decision that you did not report income, that you did not report income, that you started raising a clinic without permission and that you did not report it. Now you've said, well, we're gonna delay raising that clinic for some future time, because you've found yourself in conflict of interest. These are all the things you've admitted here in public that have happened. So it's not about malice, it's about what's true. That's the facts. This is about a very important public interest. Mr. Ilichu, you say you're a folk and you love the people. Believe me, the people are in terrible pain, they're desperate every day for how Serbian railways work. Do you know how one of the most common, shortest railways that connects Panchevo with Belgrade works? These people hate each morning, they don't know when that train's gonna leave, when they're gonna get to work. Local, it doesn't matter, any of them, these are worse, to Nis, to Bar, to Užica; it used to be a two-and-a-half hour journey, and how long does it take you to enjoy? When we talk about the railways, instead of you as a minister talking about the problems of the railways and showing us how you're going to solve these problems, because here as representatives of the citizens, we express justifiable mistrust that you will be able to solve the problems...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8019	The People's Messenger Vladan Batic has the word, so the People's Messenger Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ilich, trying to answer my question, you made a lie. I saw that your associate was sufflocating you while I was talking, but it's still no good. It's not a problem that you've made a lie, it's what you do every day, but the problem is that you don't know the details of this. It is not true that there are only two railways in Europe that run at a speed greater than 150km per hour. The problem is that you're uninformed, which is consistent with the Prime Minister and the government you belong to. I mentioned earlier which train I took, and I also traveled by train, say, Rome - Naples and by train Paris - Brussels. There's traffic going on a lot faster everywhere. Mr. Ilic, I would suggest that you go on a computer via Google on a high-speed track site, if you know what it is, and then inform yourself about it... (President: Mr. Batic, please, with respect to the Minister. ) Mr. Albianic, it would be best for you to be a conductor on these fast trains of Velija Ilic. Do not keep saying to the messengers, you have no right to do so; read to me the decree of the Rules of Procedure which gives you the right to chat with the messenger who speaks for the speaker. I haven't said anything unpleasant at the expense of Mr. Ilic, and all the time, I've been discussing only what's on the agenda. You said, Mr. Ilic, that the average speed, which I said was at the speed level of the Tour de France cycling race, slowed down some small railways, or some among the small places. Mr. Ilicu, is it true that the average speed on the Belgrade track - Nis 44.7 kilometers per hour? It is one of the longest distances and one of the longest routes in Serbia. Unfortunately, it's true. Something that has nothing to do with you, but it has to do with the Democratic Party, here's a reward question for our DS colleagues or the DS representatives in the government where they make up the majority – will you vote again to be Mr. Sarancic's director? Then a question for the prosecutor - what about buying locomotives and wagons over the buty?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8021	The People's Messenger Ivan Andric has the word, and then the People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8022	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 101 – if the presentation of the MP is misread. A moment ago, Mr. Ilic answered twice for the word, both times misread what we wanted, wanting to show here that the LDP parliamentary group is standing in the way of the railway's progress. We say once again, we are aware that there is a need to obtain a donation or credit for "Serb Railways", but we cannot allow it to be done without clear plans presented here and an explanation of the projects that will be spent on our behalf and on behalf of all Serbian citizens. We cannot accept that Mr. Ilic's party colleagues are doing the only possible control of the spending of that money. So that's the two things. I'll try now, it was by the Rules of Procedure, article 101. Mr. Ilichu, allow me to answer two of the lies you have spoken here. The first is that LDP won't be in power. We're not in power today because we're dealing with politics, not the corruption of boards, and that was our choice. We are not ready, like you who, for example, said in December 2004: "The situation in Telekom is catastrophic. The rodents and mammals need to get off the water of Telekom."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8023	Mr. Andric, I'm warning you of the terms you use for the assembly pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8024	This is a quote, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8025	I warn you of the terms you use for the congregation speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8026	Mr. Albianic, stop courting the minister, you won't get anything. Your party membership is preventing you from getting something from this minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8027	And again for the third time, I warn you of the terms you speak for the assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8028	Give me a warning, Mr. Albianic. So, I quote Mr. Ilic's statement. The statement reads: "The situation in Telekom is catastrophic. The rodents and mammals need to get off the water of Telekom. These rodents are that Gilas from the National Office, a man named Sheper and Vesic." That only a year after that you would agree to be in a ruling coalition with the same team, Sheper, Vesic and Gilas. That's why you, Mr. Ilic, are in power, and the LDP isn't, because what we're saying is what we're thinking after a year, two, three, five. I expected, Mr. Albianic, that you would intervene, since you were the chairman. So the assembly hasn't worked twice a few months. One time from election date until May of this year. That's because the government couldn't establish itself, which, for example, didn't stop you and your ministry from assigning apartments during that period. technical authorities. On the other hand, the Assembly did not work in the summer break, but for that is the majority in this assembly, the majority who elected you, most of whom no law proposes to us, Mr. Ilic, except that we change the Law on Government 20 times, and now we are dealing with ratifications of international contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8029	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8030	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101. We from New Serbia, who have been MPs here for six years, have very little to answer for. Unfortunately, or fortunately, one way or another, we've been in power for six years, and we've kept quiet here to put forward proposals for legislation that will improve citizens' standards as soon as possible. We love that this debate is being held today as it is being conducted and we from New Serbia will not give up. Let Serbia see the Europeans talk at the pay phone. Let Serbia see a parliamentary group that is an anti-natural fornication, because there are Montenegrins who hung out with Biljana Plavsic, ambassadors from Mexico, a very principled man named Cedomir Jovanovic. Just one principle, Mr. Jovanovic, to remind you, and I don't think the public has forgotten that. When you were the head of the DOS parliamentary group, including the Deputy Prime Minister, it seems to me that one parliamentary group submitted a motion to vote for no confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia, I think it was the Serbian Radical Party, you said they had no right to do so because they did not vote for that government. Stick to your words, your principles. You didn't vote for this government, and even less for this minister, and that's why you don't even have the right to talk. As you said then, so is now. It can't, when something suits you, it can, and when it doesn't suit you, it can't. We New Serbia's MPs have been very seriously prepared to discuss today the problems that exist in the Serbian railway and in the Serbian economy, but from you from the LDP who are leading the ordinary party policy at the expense of the Democratic Party... You will not succeed, especially you will not succeed across the back of New Serbia, because here sits the president of New Serbia and the minister of infrastructure, which has been declared several times by citizens and people that he is the best minister who has worked in the last seven years. It hurts you, Mr. Jovanovic, and since you are two hours away in this duel, you are now calling for parliamentary consultations again. I tell you to your face -- we had worse consultations, we agreed something, and you broke that word up here first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8031	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8032	Mr. President, I just wanted to warn the MPs to learn how to run public enterprises and how to handle public enterprises, not to mention some people here and to attack them unargumentedly, to talk about some classified footage, something. There's no covert footage. Who has, it's over, Mr. Jovanovic, you and Baby have been recording everything, I know it well, but the failed thing. The other day, the wife of the famous Zemunac, your friend Spasojevic, asked for a meeting with me to tell me everything, Mr. Jovanovic, what you were doing. Mr. Jovanovic, in Old Paz, you were with that monster this summer on vacation. The papers say you didn't deny it. Mr. Jovanovic, public enterprises... Please, I've been listening to you, but I need to teach you a lesson about how to run a public company. Public enterprise is managed by the board of directors. The Director of the Public Enterprise shall represent and implement decisions of the Management Board. Gentlemen, the MPs, all the purchases that have been made and all the decisions made on the board of directors have been carried out. The management board of JP "The Railways of Serbia" has made decisions, no decision has been made by the director of the public enterprise, nor by the director of "The Road". You know that well. It's true that I said it's in telecommunications, not in Telekom, you mixed it up, you called it. You know that some companies have been sold and privatised there, 1.5 billion euros have been received, and someone, Mr Jovanovic, has allowed Soros to enter the sewerage of Telekom during your vice-presidential term, there is a minister, and to introduce optical cables into each apartment, in every house for free and to rob Serbia for several billion euros. You know it well, who, what and how you had a share in your European business. Mrs. Pesic, I'm glad you're here today. We have been MPs since 1992, in this same House. I remember you perfectly, when you were running, when you were shaking, when we kept you here when there were various blockades, barricades, etc. Your job, when it came to power, saw you go to Mexico, made a wedding, found a Mexican and went back. That's your work result, Mrs. Pesic. So, don't talk politics anymore, you have no right, your time has passed, Mrs. Pesic, and your options have passed, all your personnel have failed. We have two... Or some gentleman down there, what's the name of the one who knows everything, young gentleman, and don't waste any more time. This is one serious job. Don't talk business, talk public enterprises, you don't know that. We'll send you to some country now, I'll ask Vuk Jeremic to find someone interesting, make another wedding, come back to us after that, and be all right. I'm sorry, but I have to tell you this. Mrs. Pesic, I watch you attack and criticize the people who brought you out, created and carried you through Serbia, fed, watered, fueled, oiled and created Mrs. Pesic. Remember when Vuk Draskovic kicked you out of the car? Do you remember that? You don't remember? Well, I'll remind you. You had another problem back then. Remember when I defended you in Vrsac from Vuk Obradovic, when he told you - look into the general's eyes. Remember that? Of course you remember. I remember everything well, Mrs. Pesic. I valued you and respected you as a speaker for Serbia's change and democratisation. But this way of addressing you is not a struggle for democracy. It's a struggle for anarchy and Serbia's breaking up, Mrs. Pesic. So I warn you, don't do it again, you, Sonja Licht, Kandićka, Biserko and that society, here, and Mrs. Micic is with you. Mrs. Micic's dad cried and begged me to support her as Parliament Speaker, because your dad, Mrs. Micic, was the chairman of the New Serbia Committee in Uzic. You've come to beg me to delete it from the record, because it doesn't make sense, the daughter becomes President of Parliament, and he's in another political option. Say hello to Dad. He's a good lawyer. He's a good director of the press at Uzic. Give him my regards. I am because of him, and when Djindjic sent me to Morovic, he voted. You know that well. Do you remember that drunk in Morovic, when you were an org... Remember? Great. Therefore, I remember everything, Mrs. Wesna, my dear lady. I remember everything. (President: Mr. Minister, please. Remember, Chado, when you took DOS to lunch, the first house, where there's a pool in the living room, to this monster from Old Paz. I think the government was, but he didn't bring his bathing suit to take a bath. Was it like that? We were going, and we didn't know where we were going, because you led us, like a big DOS leader. [[Sagar and laughter in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8033	He has the word Vladan Vukicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8034	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is known in medical literature that the killers are returning to the scene of the crime. It is also known that those who have ruined Serbia in parliamentaryism today are most struggling for it. I would like to ask Mr Batic, since he came here twice to ask the minister if it is true that in Serbia, trains continue to drive at an average speed of 44 km per hour... That's right, Mr. Batic. But, let me ask you, did you, during the period when you were in power, lead the Serbian railways to the average speed of 160 km per hour; did you bring or did you not, did you do something during the period when you exercised power to make these tracks better and that the average speed was not 44 km per hour? No, Mr. Batic, you've been a minister for four years, and you've done nothing. Has Mr. Jovanovic done anything to increase speed? You didn't do anything. Did Mrs. Vesna Pesic do anything to make the railways better and make the speeds bigger? She didn't do anything. I don't know how you care now that you're worried about why the speeds are 44 km per hour and that you're obstructing these decisions that need to improve rail infrastructure and make the average speed on our tracks bigger. In the end, since you've often used that flossula that Mr. Ilic has done nothing with his money, of course he hasn't. But Mr. Ilic was given the trust to manage the people's money and to work. What did you do to your money during your reign? Nothing, but there's one question -- where are the people's money when you haven't done anything? It bothers you now with countless built bridges and bothers you with countless built roads. It bothers you when someone tells you they've paved 3,000 kilometers, so it bothers you that someone's keeping corridor 10, part of the highway, and you see hundreds of workers cleaning and keeping each day clean. It bothers you because you can see it. It bothers you because it's something new. It bothers you because you didn't do it. We can ask you, Mr. Jovanovic, how do you make such an expensive campaign? Tell the company where you made the money, say the name of the man who gave it to you. Tell me which private firm you have, and you've had an expensive campaign. How do you pay for security? With an 82,000-dollar MP's salary? I don't believe it, Mr. Jovanovic. (President: Thank you, Mr. Vucicevic.) Therefore, you cannot turn dishonesty into honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8035	There is a word from MP Milorad Belic, according to the Rules of Procedure. It is always an advantage in the Rules of Procedure and we have all of New Serbia, and then LDP MPs. I mean some New Serbia MPs, I don't mean the whole party. Sorry about the language error.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8036	You see, a member of the 101st Rules of Procedure has been violated because it is insulting and incorrectly cited figures, i.e. data concerning both the Ministry and the JP "Serb Railways". I said in the previous report that we will not engage in these demagogue evaluations, which are probably part of the pre-election campaign, but we will address you with concrete data and try, because of you MPs who may not have that information, and above all because of the public, to point to everything that has been done first in "the Railways of Serbia". We are interested in having this set of laws discussed in an extremely correct way and, of course, to support these four draft laws. First of all, in 2001, 8,720,000 tonnes of goods were transported, and in 2006, 14,14 million tonnes of goods were transported. I don't want to remind, of course, who it was in 2001, and who it is now in 2006 or 2007. Furthermore, revenue from the transport of goods in 2001 was 2,981,000,000 dinars, 2006 - 8,817,000,000 dinars. The number of passengers transported is 2001, and I will give a few notes for more detailed information, 13.655,000, and in 2006 14.110,000. But "Serbian Railways" ticket prices have not changed since 2004. It's a very important thing. Ask the citizens of Valjev, who, thanks to "The Railways of Serbia" and support from the resolution ministry, received the cheapest transport to the capital, to Belgrade. It's all focused here: the university center... If you're already going to the campaign, do you know how many companies work in the Valjevsky area? Do you know how much it means to the citizens that Beovoz is coming here to work or that their children are coming to attend classes at one of Belgrade University's universities, not to talk about medical controls, etc. This Beovoz is, I would say, extremely offensively commented by the previous government, whose president he was (I mentioned him once and I would not like, a man does not deserve mention) one of your party's local leaders, Mr Jovanovic. It is important to say that this decline in the number of passengers transported was also conditioned by Mr. Minister, which is that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has withdrawn wagons, or traffic of nearly 540km in Serbia. For what? Probably because the money, which you were able to have when you were on the occasion, invested in the reconstruction of the road network, or railway infrastructure. Furthermore, this revenue from passenger transport increased from 2001 to 2006 from 1,420,000,000 to 1,643,000,000... (President: Time.) ) Of course, I will return, and New Serbia's MPs will only be presenting this information, regardless of your collegiate and demagogue comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8037	The People's Messenger Dejan Rajcic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dejan Perjanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8038	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101. Namely, in previous discussions of LDP counterparts, who presented for this speaker a number of completely incorrect facts and interpretations, one clear matrix is recognised, which is in fact the goal of their exit and address to both this home and the citizens of Serbia who are currently following this transmission. It is their intention to disavow the work of the ministries, and the minister, both the government and this Parliament, and simply everything that is sacred in this Serbia and which is in the function of development, the future development of this country, they throw themselves and their employers as dominant political bearers, who could pull this country somewhere else, in some other track and other direction. Simply, although as a Christian, I do not recognize Darwin's theory, I cannot take the impression, watching and listening to some previous debaters, that Darwin was to some extent right. But to move from something general to individual. I am reporting particularly on the discussion of my LDP counterpart Neboja, who comes from Nis and who has set up a dilemma here about what the railway Serbia has done in the Nis area. I must say, by this point, there was no possibility of anything being done in Nis, because of the need to change the general urban plan. Changes in the GUP of the town of Nis, adopted at a recent session, created possibilities and assumptions for access to the movement of the E10 corridor route, which passes through Nis, so-called Nis. Palilu railways, and to avoid international traffic through the city center by building a bypass at Pantela station level, which would connect with a station in the town of Prosec. And you're aware that up to three or four years ago, while the intensity of rail traffic was reduced, the problem of passing the international corridor through the very heart of the city and not noticing so much, but a few years ago this problem has been expressed. It is precisely by moving and building a bypass that will be able to remove what is at this point a huge problem in the normal development of public urban transport and traffic in the city of Nis. I think that the electrification of the railroad, which will start immediately in the next period, from the station Stanking to the Cell Tower or, in translation, if it is easier to understand, from Dimitrovgrad to Nis, is in the function of a strategy for the development of rail and rail traffic. I think it should stop, I'm finishing up, with these empty and political discussions, and we're going to discuss and analyze the proposed set of laws and agreements that the government and the ministry have proposed, and these are about the railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-15-0.u8039	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since you spent the entire afternoon reporting to the Rules of Procedure and that the 19-minute LDP parliamentary group reported to the Rules of Procedure 30 times, and that then New Serbia responded by the same number, I believe that this is the most irresponsible behaviour of the Members since we started working and it makes no sense. That's why I'm interrupting the debate now, and tomorrow we'll keep working on the agenda. I invite you, indeed, to stick to the agenda, because in the agenda it is very important to ratify the agreement that we need to finish. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandra Jerkov, Dusan Mrvos and Cedomir Jovanovic. We move to the 26-30th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE GOVERNMENT FOR VEHICLE FUNDS, THE REFERENCE OF THE VEHICLE NETWORK, THE REFERRED ACTIVITIES AND THE CONCERNING OF THE ACT OF THE WORLD PASSAL SAVE (the continuation of the joint Single Search) I give the People's MP Milutin Mrkonjic, the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club. You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure, first we'll start working a little bit.
