ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 132 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Milena Stankovic, Rajko Baralic, Balint Pastor and Rajko Djuric. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have scheduled this session for Tuesday, 25 September 2007, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly to discuss the draft agenda decision, which was set by 124 MPs in a request for an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call to the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which was convened at the request of 124 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the ninth extraordinary session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, the following D's is set up: 1. Proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative - National MP Branislav Jovanovic, a member of the Committee, want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6534	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, I would like to say that the only candidate on the Committee on the Possible Governor of the National Bank was Mr Radovan Jelasic, and that in the end, most votes, the proposal of the G17 Group was accepted, plus that Mr Radovan Jelasic was elected as the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Mr. Radovan Jelasic was born in 1968 in Baja, Hungary. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade in 1992 and mastered finance in 1995 at the University of Illinois in Chicago, in the United States. He began his banking career at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, where he worked for four years as a regional manager at the Central and Eastern Europe Department. Since 1990, when switching to "McKinsey&Company" in Frankfurt, it has been working on projects in the banking sector in Germany, Poland and Bulgaria, related to lending, privatisation, takeover of companies, organisational restructuring and the development of a mortgage business strategy. At the post of deputy governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia/Serbia works from December 2000 to July 2003. During that time, it manages the development and implementation of the restructuring of the banking sector, the reform of the control sector, the negotiations on all programmes related to the financial sector with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Union, the reorganisation of the IT sector, the establishment of a financing department for medium and small enterprises and the organisation of technical assistance in the National Bank. After leaving the National Bank of Serbia in July 2003, he established a working relationship as an adviser at the HVB Bank in Belgrade on February 1st 2004. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia appointed him governor of the National Bank of Serbia on 25 February 2004, and holds the post on 1 March of the same year. He's married, father of three: Mark, George and Elijah. The languages, besides the mother Serbian, speak fluent Hungarian, English, German, and serve well in Russian.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6535	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported. I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group is the MP of the People's Party, Mr. Jorvanka Tabakovic. I'll also inform you that we will continue to work on this agenda point after 1800 hours. National MP Slobodan Maras delivered an opinion at the meeting of the Finance Committee. You will receive your word, but according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP has asked for the word. Here you are, MP Vladan Batic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6536	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. A question for you, Mr. President. At a session on September 12th this year, I just asked the question when, according to the constitutional law, the choice of governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia will be found on the agenda. Mr. President, here's your answer: "As for the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, he will also be at the next session. I hope that the next session will begin with two very important things from the Constitutional Law, which is the choice of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, and before that we must pass laws that define their work. '" Mr. President, you are the choice of governor, as it says here in the stenographic notes, and the Constitutional Court judge, bound to pass laws that regulate this matter. We have no law on the National Bank of Serbia, we have no elected National Bank of Serbia Council, and now across the line, faster and better, because of coalition trade, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is elected, because it is obviously an ultimatum by one coalition partner. That's one thing. The second thing, in reading Mr Jelasic's biography, I didn't understand whether he was a master in the New Sad or in the United States, because the rapporteur said he was a master in the United States. We should know what this is about. One more thing, when Radovan Jelasic's biography was already mentioned, why not say the following, that Radovan Jelasic left Deutsche Bank in 1998, after being caught by the internal control of this bank in abuses when privatising a cement factory in the Czech Republic. Jelasic had a conflict of interest because he was also engaged as a consultant on the customer's side, although Deutsche Bank represented the seller, the Czech Republic government. To avoid the affair, Jelasic resigned and then took a job where you said he was at the International Consultative Company McKinsy. He worked at HVB Bank. It is the bank through which Mladjan Dinkic and Bojan Zecevic laundered the money, which is a full report by UBPOK, but has never been prosecuted before the competent judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6537	Does MP Slobodan Maras, who delivered an opinion at the meeting of the Finance Committee, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6538	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at yesterday's session of the Finance Committee, as a representative of the LDP, I voted against the proposal that Radovan Jelasic be the governor of the NBS again. There are three basic reasons. The first reason, first of all, is that the choice of governors has become a division of political prey. It is clearly seen from many aspects. Yesterday's, on a quick scheduled session of the Committee, her delay, the pressures that were happening, and at the very end of the line, that no one wanted to be a reporter, speaks for himself enough. This government, like the ruling majority, has indeed shown that there is only one thing to worry about, and that is the division of political prey. We have been waiting four months for this issue to be found on the agenda in front of the Assembly, or in front of us MPs, which is in accordance with the Constitutional Law. An attempt to find the issue on the agenda has failed once in June, because there was no agreement within the ruling coalition. However, as we learn from the media, an agreement has been reached on the boards of directors. So, the political prey started to divide in the way you're supposed to -- here's the board of directors of the NIS, you're going to get the EPS, these are going to get the NBS. We have no problem that you have proposed to anyone as a ruling coalition, but not in this way. If Radovan Jelasic were proposed as governor because he is the best, it would also be acceptable for us, that is, if you had proposed to anyone because he is the best. But because this prey belongs to one party within the ruling coalition, it is totally unacceptable to us. Governor Radovan Jelasic himself, after the elections, quoted the then technical prime minister and current Prime Minister, Mr Kostunica, as saying it was part of a political agreement. So much for the independence of this function. The second reason is so far Mr Radovan Jelasic's work, which proved his independence right before the previous elections, when he showed, above all, an envious duplicity. He criticised the government of Kostunica, criticised Finance Minister Dinkic for raising profits in the public sector, but at the same time he was in fact helping the finance ministry and transferred all the burden primarily to citizenship and private entrepreneurs, respectively, to the private sector. I am the Deputy Prime Minister of the current government, Mr Djelic, has also repeatedly expressed himself negatively on labour and monetary policy. The same was done by Minister Milosavljevic, who said for the work of Governor Jelasic that he was politically dependent, depending on President G17, Mladjan Dinkic, who has now proposed him to the post. We agree with criticism that monetary policy was very restrictive, that this low course of dinar corresponds to the import lobby, headed by Mr. Miskovic, and we assume that this is a key reason why Mr. Radovan Jelasic is again proposed as governor. Thirdly, what we consider to be a great regret, these are numerous affairs in which Mr Jelasic participated. I'll just remind you of an affair that's about to buy a house. We don't get into where the money came from, etc., but we all witnessed that Radovan Jelasic kept the tax secret, that he presented a forged contract and that he paid four times less tax than he was bound by law, for the simple reason that the tax administration was then under the patronate, that is, part of the Ministry of Finance, whose head was also Mladjan Dinkic. We also have an affair that has upset the public, which is the arrest of Deputy Governor Dejan Simic, who, according to many, was only a courier to Radovan Jelasic. Is that so, we don't know, for the simple reason we're obstructing this procedure, but there's no doubt left. Since time is running out, I just wanted to ask the citizens to think about one topic, would they trust such a man with their wallet, that is, the MPs, to ask you to consider whether we could give the Serbian wallet into the hands of such a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6539	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, the word has been given by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6540	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, thinking about how to address this talk about the governor, I hesitated between two titles: one is the governor as a system issue, as Dinkic defined at the time when the government was discussed, the other is - the history of those from McKinsy who came to Serbia to create an enormous wealth for themselves, and by povertying all of us, without distinction to which political foreigners we belong. The similarity between Djelic and Jelasic may just be on the road from McKinzi to Serbia. Only Jelasic left Frankfurt, Djelic from France. The only difference. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution, Mr Dinkic – and this story about the governor is actually the story of the party's ideologies G17, based on greed and the illegal acquisition of money – he said: 'If it goes to the choice of governor, we will not allow the government to form at all. For us, it's a systemic question, which is more important than whether G 17 plus is going to be in the government or not. ''Why is the governor of Serbia, why is Mr. Jelasic as a member of G 17 more important than the Constitution and than the politics of G 17? It may also explain this long time of putting the governor's election on the agenda and the failed attempt of coalition partners to shorten his mandate, connect him with the old one, and give him only a year and a half to finish the jobs, with the hope that we will forget: the way four large banks were shut down, the way the National Savings Centre was founded through the Small collective, in hopes that we will forget where and under what conditions foreign exchange reserves are, in the hope that we will forget the affair with the case and forget that, through the abuse of discretionary rights, this same governor prevented the entry of unwanted Russian capital into this domestic Serbian market. The story of the governor, and then the vice governor, Jelasic, begins again with the famous SRJ Official List - International Contracts, when in September 2001, Mr Jelasic received a warrant, which he quietly realised, as a privatisation of large banks. I'm reading to you on page 31, International Contracts No. 8, the technique contained in two sentences -- the selected number of large banks will be privatized from case to case, by method of rapid liquidation and "cutting." The reform of the banking system, ordered by major international financial institutions, covering more than 90% of Serbia's economy, marked Mr Jelasic's arrival in Serbia. In early 2002, a fundamental destruction followed and, instead of the announced recovery, which proved too expensive by quasiexperate calculations, the liquidation was considered to be cheaper than bank recovery. These costs are what I want the citizens to hear, transferred to the taxpayers of Serbia, and the business organisations, our businesses are left without guarantees, financiers and creditors for business ventures. As a matter of principle, kill the trustee, destroyed by the face of a large development bank, owed by large economic systems and the one never mentioned enough Sartide, who was so cleared from obligations, could be sold or handed over, better said, to American friends, at a time of mutual return for $21.3 million. The area on the financial market for new banks with foreign capital has been cleared, and some collectives or we literally read the small collective company, but famous Mr Hamovic, for example, from the country and abroad organised banking activities in the rooms of liquidated banks, with little help from friends, who provided not only funds, but not only former SDK premises, but also investment jobs, which are jobs with the payment of old foreign currency savings. The public is very conceited and deliberately distracted by the story, and this is a great burden to Mr. Governor, that the basic problem in 8,000 people who lost their jobs in one day, wanting to forget the situation of theft by destroying the banking system. The remaining domestic banks have had a new blow. Negotiations in Paris agreed to write off a ten-year interest guaranteed by the state. These obligations are not reduced to banks, only the state has taken advantage of the situation, very perfiduously and thoughtfully, and has turned all of this into the property role of the Republic of Serbia. So, after a long period, most of the banks became state banks again and were sold to foreign banks in the next phase. About which banks were buyers, at which prices were sold, who and how much commission they took, I am convinced that one day the governor, whom you are proposing today, and those who support him, will have to answer to Serbian citizens. The domestic financial system was then completely touched, but that wasn't enough. It went further against certain private banks, which could not be saved by any court decisions. Do any of you realize how dangerous the action was in Mr. Governor's behaviour when he moved all things from the foundation and turned them upside down? The transport of securities of value and stock has been removed from the stock market, which is by definition the place where it is traded. He moved them to the Central Register. On the other hand, those organisations that have to deal with trade, such as the stock market, have allowed or been forced, that trade in stocks takes place entirely beyond the stock market and directly contracted by customers and sellers. Only a large number of small shareholders know how much damage he has suffered because of this, and only courts know how many proceedings are being conducted before them or will be yet to be done because of this kind of action. Thus, a major transition fraud began, which continued to sell Serbian companies at low prices, with the foreigners also being given the domestic market and a clear and clear way for the domestic banking system. Dear citizens, the censorship for the establishment of the bank was only five million dollars. All those foreign banks, which gave five million dollars, had more than 800m euros in assets at the end of next financial year. With five million dollars in stakes, new values came with 800m euros. It is the credit, among other things, and Mr Jelasic, with the team Dinkic and Djelic, who has worked with all these years together. The process of closing domestic banks continues. And nowhere in the world, a serious state can leave foreign banks in the hands of finance for the economy, because banks keep the flow of economics and economies. They know very well what good economic students mean if the bank gives you hard credit, if it manages your development, how it can channel the development of a country's economy. Maybe someone would say we should get a cheaper offer, a better service, lower interest. That by nature things should be a result of competition. You are witnesses, like me, that these foreign banks are mostly financing the population for short-term consumption, at multiple interest rates than from the countries from which they come. Economists also well know that a significant part of the foreign exchange reserves, praised by Mr Jelasic, are actually sterilised capital of business banks, i.e. when their central banks from the country from which they come give 10 dinars of credit, they must deposit 4 dinars at the National Bank, and we are praised that they are foreign currency reserves. Only if the citizens decided, if they had the opportunity to repay those loans, at the same time 40% of the foreign exchange reserves would be melted at one single moment. Also, we should say that the credit is to the governor and that borrowing grew faster than foreign direct investment. It's very perfidious and thought-out, or it's either inciting borrowing, or it's silenced what and what such borrowing can lead to. However, the bankruptcy of closed banks has not yet been completed. The balance sheet report for each individual bank must contain data on the assets found on accounts abroad, where and under what conditions the funds are deposited and where the assets are hidden from the sale of the assets of those banks. Do you think, gentlemen of G17, that we'll forget that the spear broke and the lives gambled on the post of chairman of the board of directors at the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, that you were changing her legal followers, that we knew where the funds were held. Do citizens think this is a high economy or politics? To translate what it means for the bounds of Serbia. The loss of 30 billion dinars, achieved by the National Bank of Serbia, I repeat, 30 billion dinars, is 80 dinar -- 376m euros in value. Do you know how many Beochen cement factories this is? Do you know that for 21 million a Sartide was sold, 15 Sartide values were lost in this loss and in this number of the National Bank. This figure came up because we have an uncreditable monetary authority, which has been accused of corruption. Normally, this corruption is not easy to prove, because skilled people are hiding clues, and because of discretionary rights that the governor has, he can't quite tell which decision is motivated by personal interests, which falls under discretionary rights. But is it possible that the governor, whom you're proposing again, will in time refuse the Russian group Convers, automatically, when she wanted to take over the Kulsa Bank, with an explanation that the Converse Group has a low credit rating? Their credit rating was bb minus, as was Serbia's international rating. But the double arches are the next thing. Jelasic came to the post of governors as the announced head of HV Bank, which was later to be decided impartially. It is this very bank, dear Serbian citizens, that has given consent to perform castods of business, i.e. the process of balance and safeguarding securities from value, although a month before, the NBS refused to issue such authority to the HVB bank because it had no conditions clearly provided for by the regulation. Upon Mr Jelasic's arrival as governor, the paper was obtained without a problem. How can you suggest the governor who allowed the Euroaxis bank to, without any consequence, break the return agreement of 28 million foreign exchange reserves, without the monetary committee, and decided not to impose additional conditions on that bank. Noting that the monetary committee decides on this, he said the monetary committee is not a entertainment party and that it makes its own decisions. That's what his associates are testifying to. The foreign exchange reserves, which are praised, have achieved expansion growth, whether they are the result of exports, or whether they are the funds that our citizens living abroad deliver to their relatives here and whether they are the unstable part called part of the foreign reserves that banks have to put on the bank's account. But, as always, the hardest thing comes at the end. Those who today propose Mr. Jelasic to the governor, DS, Mr. Djelic, who has made the claim that 155m euros have been wasted and spent on expensive and inadequate monetary policy, and today stands behind this proposal, only proves that money routes have also led to a political agreement and that when you agree on money there is no problem. But there is a problem, the governor admitted that there are 376m euros in losses, in April 18th held a conference at which he admitted he would have 10 billion dinars of loss and would have to be the recapitalisation of the National Bank. He claimed it in April, when the final account was already done, it says here it has 30 billion, three times as many. Why did Mr Djelic agree, does he think that we forgot the statements, does he think that the greatest misuse of state funds, with the show of the cash register, can be forgotten? Do you think citizens don't know how to calculate, if they sold a million euros in the first half of the year, per 87 dinar course, bought cash registers, held them for six months, at the end of the year were able to buy again for those dinars they have, a million euros per course of 78, and have a clean profit of 200m euros. The problem is that the profit has been achieved on the burden of Serbian citizens, because money is not a substance that can be created in one pocket without being removed from another pocket. This is just one example and one of the proofs of what a destructive policy, very thought-out, leads Mr. Jelasic, in the interest of Mr. Dinkic's greatest circle of associates. And what are the requirements for checking out the way the money is printed, the way the money is transported, the abuse of power in the National Bank itself, and for that will one day come a session where the topic will be abuses in the National Bank. Serbian radicals will never vote for such a governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6541	Thank you. The word has the head of the LDP parliamentary club, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6542	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, another serious debate has just begun in the same bad way as the previous one, becoming the rule of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We of the LDP are no longer surprised, but I must say that we are amazed by the irresponsibility of those who have signed the proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the NBS without having felt the need to explain this proposal. It has become a rule for the work of this congregation, and that rule is not good, and it endangers the very foundations of society that we have to take care of. The question arises where decisions are made if they are not taken in the Assembly during the debate. What motives are crucial if they are not spoken of publicly and can we at all have a serious debate on the election of the NBS Governor without a government representative, without the proposal, with a dissuasive explanation of the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, who failed to convince the bureaucratic three sentences. We are not satisfied with the way the ruling coalition has approached meeting the obligations arising from the Constitutional Law, and first we need to talk about it, and then we need to talk about candidate personality. If the candidate agreed to these rules of conduct, then he said enough about himself. The fate of the governor of the NBS is defined by the obligations arising from the Constitutional Law. The constitutional law is not in line and is not followed by the parliamentary majority behind candidate Jelasic's proposal today. The new majority was formed on other principles than that formed when the Constitutional Law was voted on, among other things through the definition of the obligation, not on the mere appointment of the governor of the NBS, but on the election of the governor of the NBS. We have pointed out several times the need to respect the constitutional law. One of the reasons was that there were no necessary laws, and that's why we don't have the Constitutional Court today, there's no necessary laws, and that's why we don't have a governor of the NBS. But suddenly that last reason isn't so important anymore. The law on the National Bank of Serbia has ceased to be imperative in the election process of governors. What's more important than the law? We'd like someone to answer that question. No prime minister, no minister, no parliamentary majority representative behind Mr Jelasic's candidacy. If Jelasic himself cannot draw conclusions from such naked facts, which prove that those who propose him are not ready to say a single word in his contribution, then we as MPs have to ask the question: what is actually behind this political marifetteluk, because it is, in fact, a question. This isn't a serious job. This is a joke. Why don't we get the NBS law if the law was a prerequisite for the governor's election? Because Serbia is in political matrimony. Serbia is a victim of a three-member coalition of parties that are blackmailing each other. We're in the past week, and you're here, Mr. President, you can correct me if I'm wrong, and I'm sure if I'm not mistaken, if the president isn't here, there are some other colleagues who have been discussing, among other things, preparing a new session. We talked about the agenda. As MPs, we agreed, believing it was our obligation, with a plan that was completely different from what we're talking about today. The choice of judges of the Constitutional Court has been mentioned, the Constitutional Court law, the National Bank law and the National Bank Governor's election has been mentioned. Suddenly, overnight, just one item on the agenda. We started working today at 1400 hours. For what? Political blackmail cannot be the basis for making such large decisions as those accompanying the appointment of the governor of the NBS. There is much to say about Mr Jelasic, but we would, above all, show through three dimensions: his professional, his political and his personal. And not with the ambition to destroy anyone who appears as a candidate before parliament in the debate, but with the ambition to define with our relationship to the business the rules that will be in the future and how to oblige those who go to parliament with their candidates and those who expect parliament's support for their election. As for Mr Jelasic's professional references, he does not meet them to the extent necessary for our support. He was not elected governor of the NBS in 2004 as a non-party professional figure. He became governor of the NBS in the policy and government dealings process symbolized by Zoran Djindjic. He was returned to the seat of the governor of the NBS to prove to the party the G17 plus that it is an institution that will exist as much as it exists and that no one else has the right to this institution other than it. Unfortunately, that's how you're acting today. You have the right to do so, but those who allow you to do so make a greater mistake than you, and those who, above all, are of greater interest to us. We are interested in the second part of the ruling coalition, which forms DS and DSS. If we tried to say something critical about Mr Jelasic in this debate, without repeating what DS and DSS representatives said, we would be unsuccessful. All the ugly things about Mr. Jelasic were said by those who are proposing him to be governor today, whether during his work as deputy governor of NBJ, when he was belittled by Mr. Kostunica, through his famous remarks in the 2002 presidential campaign, about some experts who appeared out of nowhere and took Serbia's fate into their own hands, ignoring its interests. Or all that DS representatives have said, opposing Jelasic's 2004 election, mentioning his irresponsible relationship and violation of the law in an affair that someone called an affair "a villa", and then after that the affair "a suitcase", so that we can stop only at the debate that marked the Constitutional Law and kept you all until early morning, because of the quarrel and unpreparedness within the coalition to accept the obligation to elect a new governor. Mr. Jelasic has not implemented reforms in the sector he led. He administered the sector. We can say that he was good at his job occasionally. He'd probably be better off if he had government support. He often criticised the government, but what changed in the meantime and now accepts the support of those he criticised, those he condemned for the inflationary budget, those he condemned for refusing to restructure public enterprises, those he criticised for refusing to privatise NIS and EPS? What happened in the meantime, so he decided to accept their support? What happened on the other side, so suddenly the DS decided to support the governor, who she had previously accused of abuse and damage to 400m euros? That's what we need to talk about here. A proposing representative should appear and say "we were wrong then, we read the documents again and saw that Mr Jelasic was actually right and that is why we support him today". Either Mr. Jelasic should come and say it or you who suggest him from G17 plus say he realized he was wrong now is looking for a new chance. No, it's two parallel worlds. Whoever pays the price of it, we heard in the previous discussion. The price is paid by society, citizens and citizens. There's no greenfield investment in the banking sector. No bank came here and started working normally. She had to go through non-transparent privatisation process, deal with the NBS and the finance ministry. Through Dinkic and Jelasic's partnership, all banks in Serbia have been privatised over the past seven years. Through some kind of public procedure, when it wasn't at all? Corporate capital, insurance companies, two largest - DDOR and "Dunav", in a worse position in 2007 than in 2004. Who's responsible for them? The National Bank. What did she do? Nothing. The privatisation of the DDOR was delayed, at a time when it was inevitable, due to obligations that those who have delayed privatisation have towards our tycoons. The DDOR had completed the privatisation process. December was a month to finish that job. The job is not finished, it was postponed due to elections, but the second one was completed - the privatisation of Bora. We've seen how - unsuccessful. The government had double principles. What do we blame Mr. Jelasic for? We resent him for agreeing to those rules of conduct. The governor must have the courage and strength to be authentic. It runs the most expensive monetary policy, Europe's most expensive monetary policy is run by the NBS. I don't think he's doing it because he wants to. That's what he's forced to do. For what? Because of the government's irresponsible fiscal policy. Instead of changing the government, which is distanced from it, he accepts the government's support. We are the poorest European society, with the most expensive central bank policy. Mandatory reserves, which have been talked about so many times, the highest rate in Europe. Inflation, which is one of the NBS's top priorities, the second in Europe. If we are talking about the political character and everything Governor Jelasic did during his term of office, then we must be fair to him and say that he was trying to free the daily political influences of the central bank. Since 2004, he has been trying to do so, warning, criticising the government, proposing alternative measures, but has come out of the whole job as a loser. It was not successful, it did not limit fiscal consumption, it did not speed up corporate restructuring, it did not bring new dynamics into the privatisation process, it did not defend the defined course and targeted inflation. He was a failure. That's why we're criticizing him. If we talk about what is inevitable during the debate on his election as governor, it is certainly the way he treated the citizens of Serbia, our society. I believe there are several MPs in this room who have been subject to some of the affairs of those who have not been, but there are none who have not answered the questions that have been asked him. That's what Mr. Jelasic gave himself. He didn't offer an answer to any questions, and he expects us to support him. Neither did the Finance Committee rapporteur offer us an answer on his behalf, and there is no suggestions to ask him a question - who did he think he was playing with when he forged the purchase agreement on the house? It's the least important that the house is on Santa. He's the governor. The governor doesn't have the right to behave like that. He let himself do it. His vice governor ended up in prison. He was charged with corruption. No "excuse Serbian citizens for what happened", any shifts. Instead, it was first promoted, I am talking about Mr. Simic, to do the work of the director in the Bank's Population Sector today, whose privatisation was practically carried out by Mr. Jelasic. I mean the OTP bank. We cannot vote for such a governor and we do not expect the parliamentary majority, after these criticisms, to change its opinion on him, but the minimum of what we are asking for from Mr Jelasic is that, before supporting the blind parliamentary majority, he offers answers to the questions that are being raised in this debate. Who was wrong - he was criticizing the government or the government when she criticized him? If everyone was right, what preceded that conclusion? Why he agreed to such a poor process in which he now participates, without voting the independence of the central bank through a valid law on the National Bank of Serbia. It is already clear now that he will be the governor, such as Milutinovic was the president of Serbia, or Zoran Lilic. The country's central bank and monetary policy will lead the council. The council will be chaired by representatives of the parliamentary majority, who will be elected here, and the governor will serve for decoration and signature. Such a central bank does not exist anywhere in Europe. There is not a single country in the world, so it should not exist in Serbia in 2007 or 2008. We are ready to confess to Mr. Jelasic for every good move he makes. We understood his criticisms, but they were incidents, not the expression of serious intentions, that pressure on the government was corrected by fiscal policy and thus protected by the transitions in our society. All he did was actually result from personal marketing, a desire for personal promotion and ignoring the essential needs of this country. The consent he has given to such a compromising election procedure, which we are currently attending, is so clear that there is no longer any need to speak about it, its professional credibility and its willingness to protect the integrity of an institution that will formally lead as the new governor. We are voting against Mr Jelasic because we are against the coalition of Tadic, Kostunica and Dinkic, against the privatisation of our society, the feudalisation, because we are against the economy of the Soviets, the colchos, because we want a market economy, modernisation, reform, because we want a governor who is capable of doing his job, not a governor who is capable of carrying out what the three parties agree on, forgetting that these three parties are running this country that we would have to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6543	The word comes from MP Susana Grubjesic, president of the G17 plus parliamentary group, president.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6544	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will present the facts of the election of the governor, and we can discuss everything else in the course of the debate. The facts are as follows: Article 5. The constitutional law provides for the choice of governor of the National Bank of Serbia, so today, on the basis of a proposal from the Assembly Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are discussing a proposal to elect Radovan Jelasic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, with a five-year term, with the right to re-election. The new Serbian Constitution also said in Article 95 that the National Bank of Serbia is an independent institution and that its work is managed by the governor. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia, in Article 3, cited the achievement and maintenance of price stability and the preservation of financial stability as the primary objective of the National Bank of Serbia. The same law, in Article 16, says that for the work of the governors, a person who meets the general conditions for working in state bodies, has a high level of expertise, an appropriate working experience in economic, finance and banking areas, and has been highlighted as an expert or scientific worker in these jobs. Radovan Jelasic meets all legal requirements, which has been confirmed earlier by his election as vice governor, and then by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, on 25 February 2004, and for the re-election, above all, qualify and recommends the results achieved by the National Bank of Serbia from the beginning of 2004 to today. Let's get in line. As I said, the main objective of the National Bank is to preserve price stability. For as long as I've known about myself, inflation in this country, once called Yugoslavia, and now Serbia, was a normal phenomenon. So now it sounds normal when it is said that the total inflation measured in August 2007 was only 6.3% in August 2006 and the baseline inflation was only 3%. The last inflation under the current one was far from 1963. From the point of view of inflation, Serbia is exactly where it belongs, among the best in the region, but unlike our neighbours, it was achieved by its own currency, a strong Serbian dinar. The National Bank of Serbia, headed by Governor Jelasic, has also successfully achieved a new monetary policy framework. It's a target of inflation. To this end, praise has arrived from those you cannot suspect are biased and favored by the moves taken by fiscal and monetary power in Serbia. There are, above all, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the international financial market. But the most important thing is the support of Serbia's citizens. Maximum liberalisation of the foreign exchange market has been done. The volume of foreign exchange trade between banks, which amounted to two billion dollars in 2005, was tripled in 2006, and in 2007, they will most likely achieve a $14 billion sum. The course is formed on the interbank market, without any interference from the National Bank of Serbia. The foreign exchange reserves are record, amounting to $12.4 billion, doubled during 2006. The new bank savings amounted to only 1 billion euros at the end of 2003, with over four billion euros at the end of 2006. The financial sector. Let's see the banks and the banking sector. The balance sheet of the banking sector is more than tripled in three years. At the end of 2006, it reached over a billion dinars. In three years, loans rose by 224% only from domestic banks and reached a level of 545 billion dinars. The average weighted interest rate on loans fell from 19% to 9.75% in August 2007. With its consistent reforms, the National Bank of Serbia has contributed to the fact that individual investors pay six to seven times the value of accounting, a significant income in the state budget based on privatisation of state ownership in banks. In the banking sector, the number of employees increased by a third by three years. Currently, 30,000 people are working in the banking sector, while after the closure of four major state banks, the number of employees was 14,000. At the same time, the number of business units increased by 47%. Today, there are 2,158 of them throughout Serbia. No other sector in Serbia is growing at this speed. A new Deposit Insurance Act has been passed. Memorandas of co-operation with six central banks, related to bank control, have been signed. In order to strengthen the transparency of banking services, the obligation to show the credit price in the form of a single effective interest rate has been introduced. The insurance sector; the insurance market is legally reorganised. 24 insolvent and non-insolvent insurance companies have been closed. A significant improvement in the quality of the services of these companies, secure safe collection of damages. In just two years, the total premium has been increased by 70 percent. Technical reserves, which guarantee security, have increased by as much as 150 per cent. The number of employees in insurance companies increased by 45 per cent. Five new licences for insurance companies have been issued. Finally, after 15 years, an international course for actuaries has been launched. Voluntary pension funds; full regulation has been adopted, a new supervisory sector has been set up and seven licences issued. International relations -- a three-year arrangement with the IMF has been successfully completed. We got an extra write-off worth $700 million. The IMF's total debt of $1 billion has been recovered prematurely. Up until a year ago, Serbia was the IMF's biggest debtor. After more than a decade, the issue of debt to the London Trustees Club was resolved, with a write-off of $1.7 billion. We pay the rest of the debt by 2010 interest of only 3.75 per cent on an annual basis. Right now, we're putting in $5.3 per cent of the dollar. So we get more than we pay for the debt. Governor Jelasic was one of the main negotiators of such a favourable arrangement. In an annual report by the NBS and the opinion of an independent auditor for 2006, which was delivered to all MPs on June 28th, or rather, delivered to the assembly service, and I do not know if it has been delivered to all MPs, there is no objection. This means that the NBS operates transparently and professionally and that taxpayers' money is in a safe place. Governor Jelasic is also president of the Central Asia Club, the Black Sea region and Balkan countries, a club covering 19 countries. In addition to everything previously said, I hope this fact also speaks in favour of the election of Radovan Jelasic as governor of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6545	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6546	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, given the importance of this point and the general subject we are talking about today, and the inappropriate behaviour of the ruling majority, which all the predecessors have given their own court, and also taking into account the representatives of the parliamentary group of promoters, who has not answered any of the questions raised today by the opposition representatives, the debate has just begun, we have a whole series of questions that we have to ask him, and in accordance with Articles 98, 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the session be suspended until Mr Jelasic comes here, so that he can give us all the necessary answers to the questions. You will do so by using, in accordance with Article 87, your right to chair and calling on Mr Jelasic to come here and, too, asking the Assembly to declare this. This is Article 98.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6547	It's not an obligation for a candidate to attend. This is the election of the governor of the NBS. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6548	I would ask the Assembly to now declare itself, given that my proposal concerns now, the course of the session that is now taking place. I do not accept the explanation that this proposal could be voted at the end of the session, but I am asking that the Assembly now declare itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6549	In the day of the vote, the assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you have demonstrated. Please leave the pay phone to begin with and go to the scene. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6550	Mr. Albianic, I'm really asking you not to insult me with that look and that tone. I didn't insult you. Another thing, I don't know what your strength is in, except that you're a member of G17 plus. I'm telling you once again, what might seem logical to you is not logical for the Assembly to make a statement on this in voting day. My proposal concerns now, this moment. So we're asking a question about a subject that's very important. They're all ignoring us. We don't get answers. Representatives of the ruling coalition come out and read some kind of referendum, not even understanding what it says in those reports. We have specific questions. This session now has two streams ahead of it. Please accept my proposal constructively not to plead in the voting day but right now, right now. There are business opportunities for that. So I ask that Mr. Jelasic come, as someone who has accepted that honor or, however, the obligation, to be a candidate for governor and to answer specific questions, since no one else will answer those questions to us. Am I clear enough now? You can do anything, Mr. Albianic, you have the majority, but I hope you're aware that you're taking responsibility for a further session then.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6551	Thank you, Mr. Andric. On the basis of Article 87. The Rules of Procedure, held at the National Assembly meetings in addition to the MPs, shall be attended by members of the government, by authorised representatives of other legislators and by the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives, as well as by other persons invited by the President of the National Assembly. So, since the choice of governor is the point, I say again that it is not an obligation to attend. It's just that we're continuing the session with normal timing. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6552	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will help you, Mr. Albianic, and I will ask you to literally apply a member of the Rules of Procedure that you have just quoted, and I will remind you of one of the nice rules that we have established during the period of power formed by the parliamentary majority of the government of Zoran Djindjic. During the summer of 2003, in that disputed choice of governors, at least one thing was a positive exception, which is the readiness of the candidate for governor, Mrs. Kori Udovicki, to answer all the questions of the MPs. She took part in the debate and answered all the questions the MPs had asked her. You have a business opportunity to invite Radovan Jelasic to this session, a team before he is still the person doing the governor's work, and on this basis he can participate in this debate and offer answers to the questions that are being asked here. In such a way, let us, for example, allow us to see in it what the parliamentary majority now sees, and we do not - a professional and professional person ready to do such a serious and responsible job as the governor's job. This is how we see a party official, who came by the will of the 2004 party as governors. When the party lost political support and it lost any position within the new government, it would now return to them along with its downing party. So, let Mr Jelasic come here, and let him answer the questions that are being asked him, instead of the unmistakable defences we hear from that weak group of G17 Plus MPs; so, instead of the referendums, let him come here and offer answers to all the questions that are controversial and the questions that are the prerequisite of any serious debate and vote on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6553	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I repeat, the president of the National Assembly is calling for anyone to attend the session. On the other hand, I also inform you that if the Assembly's report on the work of the NBS is on the agenda, it is certainly necessary to invite the governor to attend, and now the election of the governors of the NBS is on the agenda, according to a proposal from the Committee on Finance of the Serbian Parliament. Therefore, the matter is clear. Here you go, Mr. Marash. Mr. Canak, a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6554	Mr. Chairman, Vice President Albianic, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Member of the 31st National Assembly, helping the president of the National Assembly do business in his work. Article 27 states that the president of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chaired by the National Assembly meetings, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This means that you do not have the right to make entrenched comments to one of the predecessors of the LDP parliamentary group and you cannot act as if this is the subject of changing members of one of the Assembly committees. This is a very important topic, this is a topic that Serbian citizens look forward to and this is the topic on which the candidate must be present. It's true that it stands in our Rules of Procedure that he's not obliged to be here, but let's be responsible, let's call whoever he is, in the end line, if he has to, to address us, but we have to ask him some questions. You can't answer for him. That's great and beautifully written, but that's not the point of this story. Please interrupt the session, call the candidate, nothing will happen to him here. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We need to ask him some questions. I don't know what you're afraid of. I don't know why you answer every question with silence. Come on, bring the candidate here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6555	National MP Suzana Grubjesic, president of the G 17 Plus parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6556	Here, only memories work, there are enough MPs here to confirm what I'm about to say. Cory Widowsky sat outside while there was a debate about her choice. The door was opened by MP Srda Popovic, when she was elected, then she entered. The way she was chosen -- well, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Let's not remind ourselves how she was chosen and make parallels with Radovan Jelasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6557	National Messenger Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6558	Mr. Albianic, you violated a member of the Rules of Procedure and the one the lady who was before me called here. Let me remind you, for a stenogram, she never called any member of the Rules of Procedure. (President: Which member did I break? That's what you're gonna read. You will read that article, to which she was called, and you shall read it, after that Per came to you yesterday. So, if it's someone from G17, he can walk around and say whatever he wants here and he has no obligation to say, I'm calling on a member of the Rules of Procedure that and that. (President: Under the same conditions as you, Mr Krasic). No, you're not well informed. I came out for this, and in order to help you do no further harm to the Rules of Procedure, I need to draw your attention that the caller is to invite MPs to today's session, Mrs. Hope Kolundzie. Of course she ran away. But the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Finance who has the status of the promoter is practically the rapporteur, and you plant this banana here and how whoever comes out to get it up and say - you are wrong about it and that it is fighting for the proposal, not that Serbia is the victim of an entire political perversion based on Mladjan Dinkic saying - I have three pillars of which I am not giving up: one is Jelasic, the other is this banana and the third is the one from the post office. If you touch one of those three, the government falls. He conditioned not only the government, but everything in Serbia. That should be condemned. That is why, according to the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the promoter, a representative in the front row here to be red, to see the public of Serbia who represents Jelasic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6559	National MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the MP of the people Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6560	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think you've figured out what we're proposing. So, Mr. Jelasic doesn't seem to have a proposing. Don't ignore reality, look at the front lines here, there's no one here. So you're saying - the Finance Committee is a proposer. Where's the board president? Where's anyone who'll explain to us, answer our questions, not give us anything he reads a report he got from some G17 officer plus? We have no doubt that G 17 plus knows how to write papers, but we have doubts about many other things. Given that the Serbian governor's institution is a very important thing, that you as a parliamentary group have this power, face, patience, what? So you can hold out here until 6:00 until the transmission stops, and then you can just vote out at night for the governor? We don't agree to that. Once again, I tell you, take advantage of your right, which is also your obligation, Mr. Albianic. Even the president of the assembly escaped. You are the only one left in G 17 to defend Jelasic. You have 14 or 20 MPs, you expect us to accept your arguments without discussion. Please use this, let the representatives of the ruling majority come, let the man who is running for governor come and answer the questions the MPs have to ask him. The fact that he has ignored every question so far and has not answered any of the questions that have been asked him does not mean that he can pass through this congregation. Mr. Albianic, don't abuse your position, which happened to belong to you, which is to chair this session. Let's put it to a vote. Why are you afraid of that, too? Let the MPs decide. That'll take your responsibility off you. Don't think that we don't know that even the ruling majority's MPs have escaped because of this item of the agenda and that only the MPs of the opposition are sitting here. Please put it to a vote, have at least so much power in you that at least you respect this assembly and try to get out of this problem together that, not by your own free will, you brought before us. You expected this session to run by us talking until 6:00, then the transmission will stop, and then we'll all go home and you'll gather in the night and vote the governor. That's how you chose all the institutions in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6561	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic and then the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6562	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I will try to help you again, Mr Albianic, by proposing that you apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and allow Parliament to confirm in a more decent atmosphere the decision taken elsewhere. In this way, the director of no bank in Serbia is elected. The election is preceded by public procedures, promotion of candidates, debates on programmes. Finally, this great role is played by the Central Bank, which gives its consent. Everything is completely different from the procedure by which we choose the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. If someone has given consent to the governor's election, have that someone come out for the assembly pay phone and say why he did it, what he supported in Mr Jelasic's programme. We want to talk about it, we want to ask the governor what it's going to look like in 2008, the year in which global market disturbances are going to be transferred to definitely our internal policies, what kind of policy the Central Bank is going to run, whether a deal has been made with the promoters, whether in 2008, there will be a year of savings or there will be a year in which the National Bank will do its job and the job of the incompetent government of Kostunica. That's important. The least we need are reports. We said very clearly, there is much we appreciate in Mr Jelasic's work, but that is precisely proof that he was not a consistent governor, he was a failed governor. We're choosing a new one now, and there's no program. Have you ever heard of elections held without the election program being presented? In one-party societies, programs are promoted. What are we voting for? That's what this is about. And we're asking the parliamentary majority to seriousise this debate. There are plenty of responsible people here. If we're making such a joke out of electing governors, then what about all the other bearers of function? Why, then, are we people who deserve this great right and honor to be able to say to themselves that they represent the interests of Serbian citizens and citizens? Whose interests are represented by those who have decided to choose the governor without allowing the man to speak his own programme or at least to declare on his behalf that programme, or to say what was crucial, on which principles this sudden support was made. Instead, you offer us a statement in the voting day as an answer. If you're building your coalition on these fantasies, don't expect us to agree to that. You don't think we're gonna call Jelasic to come here and talk after the debate is over? If you have decided to deny citizens and citizens of Serbia the right to hear his programme and in such a way that you think you will win the opposition or the LDP, which is currently building its criticism on the lack of a programme needed by Serbia, then you are wrong. This is just another slap on that institution that's been so humiliated, so many times now humiliated that she didn't need this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6563	The People's Messenger Željko Ivanji, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6564	Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." To honor the dignity of the National Assembly, then you must treat the National Assembly with respect. What does that mean? First, to submit a report on the financing of political parties, which you have not done until today. Secondly, whether Sekula Pijevcevic is your party's finance manager, so the director of the Credit-Export Bank, which was closed by the decision of the National Bank of Serbia. You can meet a wolf on Zlatibor, but only if you're called Cedomir Jovanovic and take pictures with him in a cafe there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6565	National MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6566	I don't know whether to report on the same basis as those from G17 or as a colleague from the SRS, Article 226. There's one thing I'm curious about, Mr. Chairman. It's nice that we're taking dirty laundry out here about each other, but I still don't see a public prosecutor here for what we're talking about. We're not even legally responsible, though. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the scene: It has a TV transmission. Is there a TV feed? That's not enough, Mr. Milivoevich. It has to be official duty for a man to sit here and that everything that's being brought out is being prosecuted in the Special Court, otherwise we're inconclusive. We, as a legislative authority, need to secure. I was going to say, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, that there is much to be said in this assembly at the expense of certain people. There's supposed to be a clerk sitting here from the Special Court and taking these cases as records from the Assembly to act on official duty. That's what I was talking about, but there isn't. Mr. Chairman, I am interested in one thing, I am holding in my hands the act addressed to the National Assembly, dated 28 June 2007, which says that in accordance with Article 79(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on the National Bank of Serbia, the official messenger, and that one, provides an annual account of the National Bank of Serbia for 2006 with a report from the authorised auditor. Signed by the president of the National Bank of Serbia Council, Mr. White. I ask the question how do you think that this act, which is of serious interest to the affairs to be dealt with by the MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia, and among other things perhaps I haven't been able to examine it, may be a great report for the candidate, and perhaps it's disastrous, there are some 256 pages, as you think, if this was shared this morning, that the MPs at all look at this, and we are discussing the candidate, a person who was already governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Therefore, you would very much help us if this act, which was delivered to the Assembly on 28 June 2007, was hidden in the congregation service until today, was delivered to the MPs in time, because in this way we could discuss much better, and when I get the word, about how the National Bank and how the Governor of the National Bank, Mr Jelasic, actually did his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6567	Please prepare the appropriate response from the Assembly. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question arises when we hear all those who object to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which is why we have violated the Constitutional Law to enforce the Constitution in the election of the governor of the NBS. If it is foreseen that in the second session after the constitution of the Assembly we choose the governor and if you choose the same man today, why is this not done at the second session after the establishment of the National Assembly and the Government's election? I'd like to give you some prehistory. When we wrote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is foreseen in Article 95, which has three positions, in one that Serbia has a National Bank, in another that the National Bank is managed by the governor, in the third that the National Bank is governed by law. Then the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution provides that in the second session after the constitution we choose the governor because it is said that Jelasic must be removed. The question now arises, after all we know about Jelasic and after everything the DS and DSS leaders have said about Jelasic, for example. I recall what Djelic said in April of this year -- we will not allow Dinkic to blackmail us to preserve his governor and we will not allow G17 plus from 2000 to continuously hold NBS. Then Jelasic said he hoped that the subject of political agreements would not be the choice of governors, and he was even so ashamed that G17 plus suggested him, that he had publicly stated that he was not a member of any political party. I guess that would justify the G17 plus pawnage for his choice. Now I'm asking you from G17 plus: why are you taking such a stand for one non-partisan personality? Why are you so committed to the impartial personality of Radovan Jelasic? (Nadica Momirov, from the scene: because she is the best. You don't know who he is or what he's called, and all you know is he's the best, and yet you owe here an explanation of what he's best at. Maybe he's the best at something you know, ma'am, and we don't know, so tell us what the best part is, because the man who makes such a loss to the National Bank with enormous interest, allowing only certain individuals and certain banks to get rich, and you don't tell us who took part in the transactions that damaged Serbia, certainly can't be said to be the best governor of the National Bank. Maybe he's the best at choosing pay on Santa, maybe he's the best at cheating tax services on the value of that salary. Let me remind you, no one from the IRS who evaluated his house goes to jail. Strangely, it was then led by G17 plus or more in Serbia, nothing is strange. So, G17 Plus representative Radovan Jelasic should be here in the hall, he should respond to MPs' remarks, if he can, especially to these most serious ones, to participate in Serbia's robbery at the expense of a political party and that the whole of Serbia is looming because the political party is blackmailing the whole of Serbia: either Jelasic or Serbia. It can't be put up with, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. You negotiate as much as you want, but don't blackmail Serbia. You've introduced the principle that it's ideal to win 5% of the vote, because when I win 5% of the votes, you have the National Bank, you have the Ministry of Finance, you can have capital investments, you can have whatever you want, because you won 5%, and everyone needs to appreciate you. We want to hear Radovan Jelasic here, including about your merits in shutting down insolvent and non-equitable insurance companies. What, then, do your courts undo these National Bank solutions? I can assure you that Radovan Jelasic is actually working for money and that you are selling good, good will. You close insurance companies and make a market for your foreign insurance companies. Nothing domestic to you, you from G 17 plus. All the domestic banks you closed or maybe Jelasic was wrong when he wrote to Governor Dinkic and warned him that he was robbing what was done through Moscow, through a small bank of criminals in which the National Bank holds its deposit. Is this Jelasic or the one who doesn't speak a word of it anymore? You've closed the banks, you've closed down the insurance companies, but look at the miracles, not all the banks and not all the insurance companies. Two identical banks. One can be closed tonight and another sold for 300m euros tomorrow, because you in the National Bank Act predicted that the National Bank controls insurance companies. Is there anything in the world? You started the Radio Diffusion Agency, and you didn't start an insurance company agency. What's most important. No, but the governor, by his act, by sublaw, and to remind you that 90 would be the deadline for harmonising all regulations with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The National Bank doesn't even have a law on the National Bank, let alone the regulations it's making now, based on what law. This farce with the choice of governors, in which the DS is involved, I see you will discuss it, and all you hope to do, we will move them into the National Bank Act, the Board of Governors will be the governor of the National Bank. These are frauds, these are delusions that you are dealing with each other in government and that are causing all of Serbia to suffer. So cover your ears with G17 plus, and I promise the citizens of Serbia: the robbers will be in jail when we win.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6569	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the people is Slobodan Maraš, then the Messenger of the people Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6570	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the violation of article 101. You, Mr. Chairman, didn't seem to understand me very well. We have here said that there is no reason why the candidate for governor should be afraid to come to answer the questions asked by the MPs, first of all, the opposition, and I hope that the ruling majority MPs will also ask us some questions that the candidate for governor might answer. There's one more thing I wanted, I didn't get it right, and that applies first of all to the gentleman from G17. Did you mention Sekul Pijević, who was arrested within the meaning of the so-called "Pijevčević". The bankruptcy mob? That's the gentleman who sent the bags after the governor's blackmail, as he told the court. Governor Radovan Jelasic blackmailed him, and he sent over his mediator, namely Mr Simic, vice governor, whom Jelasic himself suggested, a case of 100,000, and was expected to be delivered. Did you think of him? Let me ask you once again, Mr. Chairman, to stick to the Rules of Procedure, not to engage the MPs in the word "flips" and not to entertain the Assembly, but to do your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6571	The People's MP Ivan Andric, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6572	Article 104 because the speaker from your party, Mr Albianic, insulted the National Assembly by replacing the thesis. So it's not an insult to this institution that the candidate for governor has no program, he doesn't want to appear, and the ruling majority responds to ignoring, but is an insult to this institution when the opposition points to it. I don't know what board of directors you're from, I mean from the post office, but, experts, you have to be a little different for this speaker. On the other hand, this Mr. Pijevcevic, who you were talking about, Sekula Pijevcevic, I'm sure he's not our party's fund-raiser, but I'm also sure that the man was in prison because he didn't want to be your party's fund-raiser, and that's in the background of his arrest and the bankruptcy mob's "coffer" affair. I believe you don't know anything about it, because you're from the Post Office, but that's one of the reasons why we're asking for it to be confirmed or denied by a man whom only your MP group is running for governor. Once again I ask you, Mr. Chairman, put this on the vote, let the National Assembly know whether the man who wants to be governor has a desire to answer the questions that his MPs, the people who are elected citizens of this country, have to ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6573	National MP Zeljko Ivanji according to the Rules of Procedure, replica, then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6574	Because I'm from the Post Office, that's why I'm talking about this topic, and that's why I'm familiar with the details of these jobs that Sekula Pijevcevic was doing, and the former director of the Post Office, which is his godfather, and Goran Kljajevic, and Bogoljub Karić, whom I have revealed. That's why I'm proud to be in the post office and to be in a position to break that company. What's also important, I don't mind Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, nor you, Mr. Andric, although Cedomir Jovanovic threw me into the pass that I'm a fool, but I do mind if one Sunday afternoon, when I walk my daughter past May 25th, you with angry engines and a bunch of bodyguards walk the bike path. That's what I'm up against, and that's where I'm personally threatened by you. I feel nothing else and I have nothing personal against you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6575	National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6576	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Rule 226, issue for the Minister of Finance, I'm looking for an explanation, or an explanation, and there is no one, unfortunately. And I have to admit, I didn't understand anything about the previous speaker. I tried, but it's not worth it. It's not working. Here's the question, which I'm looking for an explanation -- how much has Serbia been in debt since 2006? Was that debt 3.6 billion? Did 1.6 billion banks, according to Governor Jelasic's recommendation, enter a billion and six million into the country, buy dinars and dinars? The interest on the cash registers was 18% to 24%, and the projected inflation of 6.6% or 8% does not matter, and at the time of the purchase, the euro was 86-87 dinars. At the time of arrival of the cash registers, 76-77 dinars. Do you know what the losses are for Serbia, or how much money they make for these banks: 305m euros only in 2006. It began in 2005, in part and this year, more than 500m euros were lost. It is the balance of action of Radovan Jelasic. Since he's gone, I ask the finance minister -- where does the National Bank, if the Finance Minister Radovan Jelasic ask that, hold foreign reserves? How many of the country's foreign reserves are in a Euroaxis bank in Moscow and who is the largest shareholder in the Euroaxis bank in Moscow? Soldier Lazarevic. What about a billion-and-a-half of Mobtel's sales? Where's the money? At the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow. Who's turning the stock market around? Soldier Lazarevic. It is the range of action by Radovan Jelasic. That man should have been in prison a long time ago, not proposed to be governor of the National Bank. Was part of the foreign reserve turned into U.S. bonds? What are the losses for the state in U.S. bonds? Finally, what is this artificial defense of the exchange rate of dinar, no production, no exports? Do you know what the foreign trade deficit is this year? Between 8 and 9 billion. It is even 4.5 times more than at the time of Slobodan Milosevic. It is the range of action by Radovan Jelasic. I'm sorry, but if someone has such a stomach to vote for this man to be a guard of the state's money, they turn in the tomb of Lazar Pac and those honorable men before whom King Petar trembled, Pasic trembled, when they sought out loans and when they cared about the people's register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6577	Please forward the matter to the Ministry of Finance, Minister. The word has been made by MP Nenad Canak, president of the Vojvodjan Group, LSV-SVM.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6578	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, this topic we touched today has prompted many of my predecessors to say a series of facts, a series of facts, I assume that no one, for no other reason or time, has been able to touch all aspects of why it is "for" or "against" the election of Mr Radovan Jelasic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. I noticed that despite the exhausting data that Mrs Tabakovic gave, which are the facts that we all knew, no one noticed one little thing, we should choose the man who already did. When selecting someone to function, that function must be empty. The function of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia has not been emptyed. It contains Radovan Jelasic. He'll be picked twice for the same thing. True, he would have to resign or otherwise be released from the post, in order to be able to join the vote on his election. But the moment he stopped acting that very significant function, one of the most important in the country, I guess at that point he'd be in a position to have to answer for the work he's done so far, and that's obviously the painful subject we're talking about here. His predecessor, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, a few years ago, when I served as president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, on my most kind question - why was it necessary to close Vojvodina banks, close banks in Vojvodina and Serbia? The first thing that was done was to remove the National Bank Treasury in Novi Sad. When I asked that question on the phone, I was welcomed in the paper the next day by Governor Dinkic's statement that it was a shame how politics interfered in the profession. If you gentlemen are so professional, why are you asking the people who are in politics to choose you? Then let the waist choose you, because it's actually the paradox that we're talking about here. We're talking about the paradox that we're expected to believe in someone's word that they're professional, and that the report on their expertise has never been in a position to see. We come in a position to need this tall home, i.e. a home that should be high, and should be high by its authority for all those who voted for people sitting in the Assembly, instead of you, who should be the most humble servants of citizens who voted for MPs of the National Assembly, showing up here and answering very politely every question asked, they are ashamed to come to the National Assembly. I am only talking about this because, to be clear, there is no reason here to talk about Radovan Jelasic, but there is reason to talk about the state of society, the state of state in the country and the state in which Serbia is presently. What we are doing now is only compromising parliamentaryism as such. The fact that we cannot bring here a candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia, says that this assembly does not have any authority, but serves to vote on the will of the executive government to the parliamentary majority that is contracted, which includes this. So, the contract that Radovan Jelasic will be the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It is therefore quite hypocritical to talk about his expertise, to talk about his results or what, when there is no one here who would give us an answer to one simple question - how many passports does Radovan Jelasic have? Let's see how many passports Radovan Jelasic has, how many citizenships does Radovan Jelasic have? Where did Radovan Jelasic work before he came to the post of governor of the National Bank and where will he go when he ceases to be governor of the National Bank? I think like this, if in this proposal that we have received with a decision that reads -- Radovan Jelasic is elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and his mandate does not stop, nothing is happening, it is just being chosen. And he says here -- after leaving the National Bank of Serbia, which he came to in 2000, and according to the documentation I have, he came to Serbia at all in 2000; means, in 2003, which is written to you in material, he founded a working relationship as a consultant at the HVB Bank in Belgrade. Now I'm asking a question -- isn't it logical that whoever can determine, with all these discretionary rights that have been spoken of here, which the bank will be able or won't be able to have a privileged position, won't it warm up to itself a decent directorial position for the future by having a bank in which, after the term of office, it will be given some privileged position. It kind of sounds to me like it, and this all sounds to me just to that shame, that we all have to deal with what Radovan Jelasic is like, and he's completely irrelevant. What was it about at the National Bank, and the National Bank didn't want as an institution for the past seven years to say what it was really about. When Kori Udovici was elected governor of the NBS, I must remind you that the LDSV request was only one, that of the four vice governors one would be from Vojvodina. Dot. That was all our request. Neither to be a member of the LDSV party nor to not be, or to be, an expert who will choose, but to know what is happening in this important sector for the duchy economy. The answer was, you'll hear everything when I'm elected. That's what happened. That's why I underline that it's obvious that for years the National Bank has been the key to some things that we all don't know about, and we don't know because it's part of these contracts, which made this assembly a voting machine, that made Serbia a feudal state, with shared feuds, you and the National Bank, you, this big complex, you, that you, the roads, the energy, and only one of us, not to touch, and everything in some broader and higher interests. Interest was last year, gentlemen and ladies, to bring in the new Serbian Constitution, was that right? Here are the seven who voted in favour of the constitution, and what was good was the constitution, whether something was good when it was already in the first session, because the constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution clearly defined that Kosovo is not in Serbia. No, because there was no date when elections would be held in Kosovo, and the whole constitution, my God, was because of Kosovo. Now we have this government, this government that was a stillborn, that's what I've been talking about before, just now it's starting to stink. So, this government is now trying with its subsequent feudal solutions, where they can't even look us in the eye anymore. I'll remind you, Vojislav Kostunica has even gained strength, in his infirmity, to come here to hide his eyes, and this reluctant cannot even come, so that he doesn't have to answer the simple question - and what it's all about except to continue to melt, to share your functions, to share the synocures between you, to share between the boards of directors. Because in politics you've already lost everything, everything you've claimed to be fighting for, you've lost everything you've claimed to stand for and that's why you've thrown under the feet the principles of the elemental civilised functioning of the state. Because the institution is what distinguishes tribes from the state, the institution is what distinguishes the country back-to-back from the collected herd managed by the pack. And Serbia today is precisely because of the way we are brought before the final act and we need to serve for ridicule to all those who say -- again, according to the Rules of Procedure, this or that will be discussed, and there is nothing from these business debates except that parliamentaryism continues to collapse in this country. Don't be surprised tomorrow when we're asked, all of us MPs in this assembly, what you've done to bring parliamentaryism into reality. Does this congregation have the strength to get all of us out of the O.R. and say that we will not work until we see those who ask us to choose them, until we ask that the government, which is allegedly the executive body of this congregation, account for what it is doing? We haven't even received reports on these negotiations on Kosovo, and that was the main reason why everything was done. There's no reason in this country anymore, there's only excuses. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what will this assembly do and what will this government do about the announced neonastic march through Novi Sad on 7 October of this year, on the birthday of Himmlerov, on the birthday of the SS commander, on the birthday of the greatest executioner of Serbs and of the Serbian people, all the citizens who lived here? What kind of Serbian patriots will march on Novi Sad in Nazi uniforms, which will burn the synagogue instead of candles for glory. Is that what generations here have fought and died for, is that Serbia that everyone here in this room claims to stand for? What's going to be done about it, why isn't there a minister of police to answer that? How is it possible to legally report a group of neo-Nazis in Novi Sad, where thousands of Novo-Sadians were thrown out of their collaborationists under ice, where thousands of Serbs were killed in the Frog and Churug by the same ones, where thousands of Jews were sent to die in Buhenvald, Mathausen and Auschwitz by the same ones? And that is allowed, and this assembly deals with Radovan Jelasic, who would be most logical to vote to take away all passports, to stay here after his term, and not before the term of office, to stay here and to see where and where the bank will be employed and to see if he can handle everything that has been loaded on his back before all of his merits in recent years. Why don't we have the strength to do that? I've always personally advocated banning the SRS, but when most of them said no, in which case, no. I ask the question, will all of us now allow the terror of the majority who will do this to Radovani Jelasici, mercenaries of various banks, cannot count where all man worked, sit on the helm of the NBS and adapt to Serbia in a banking sense to their needs tomorrow's synergy. Is that what we're gonna let? They may force us, but I won't agree to do it without saying a word against, without bringing up the elemental question. If we don't make Serbia worth living in, then don't be surprised that no one will stay in it for the next 30 years. This country is already the oldest on average of the age of the population on the planet Earth, except Japan. In Japan, the age reflects the way of life and good health care, here the age of the population is due to the lack of youth. And don't forget, if we don't oppose Radovan Jelasic, on the one hand, the neo-Nazis on the other hand, if we don't oppose everything that makes this country a mockery, and we don't start here in this assembly, in this assembly, that must be the main anchor of parliamentaryism and democracy in this country, because if this assembly isn't, there's no one to be. Because above this assembly in this country, there is no one else, except perhaps some bank, except perhaps some tycoon society, who, with the money of the taxpayers of this country, are buying their tomorrow position in Serbia, as the owner of Serbia, when they stop being its rulers. Do we have the right to agree? I won't agree to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6579	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DS, G17 plus, SPS, LDP, Vojvodina MPs. The People's Messenger Laszlo Varga has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6580	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM will support Mr Radovan Jelasic's election as governor of the NBS. We believe that NBS is one of the few institutions that has worked well since the five-octobaric changes. This whole afternoon political bickering is irrelevant to us. For us, the only measure of success of the NBS represents the years-long stability of the dinar. I think it is indisputable and I think this fact -- the stability of the dinar -- is very important for the existential security of Serbian citizens. Of course, it casts a huge shadow on Mr Jelasic's choice that he is a party candidate, but apparently, unfortunately for us, Serbia in 2007 away from some democratic ideals. In the end, once again, we will support his choice for the reasons I have stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6581	The People's Messenger Vesna Pesic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6582	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, respected chairman and respected citizens who follow this unfortunate session, where we are trying here, as a minority, to take care of this country, in which most of them are irresponsible, as part of their mutual trade, and among them there are those who represent themselves as top-notch Serbian patriots, and they want one of the most important and most important institutions for our country to create the most common bar. That's really amazing. I have to say, I'm surprised, first of all, that DS accepts such blackmail and that today has led us to the point where we have to show here one elemental and surprising and disgust over what is happening today in parliament. When elected by the governor, it is already said enough to be a regulatory institution, that it must be an independent institution in which no political party and politics can have influence. That's quite clear. But we have to say that the one who runs the National Bank must also be the man who is respectable, but not only respected in a narrow sense of the word, but it must be the man who enjoys the reputation of all of us. It's really not good, when it comes to the governor, that most of the governor is imposed, that there's no agreement on it. I'm telling you from this place, when it comes to the governor, that the Finance Committee could have invited some other people to participate in the governor's election contest. Why, on the proposal of one political party, when we also have Veljko Dugalic, we have Bosko Zivkovic, we have other prominent experts and prominent people in this society who could be here in competition, and the board unanimously decide to propose to us a reasoned candidate, why this candidate should be governor of the National Bank. Without consensus, by imposing this kind of thing, and we often talk about how things are being imposed on us, so the international community is imposing on us, and we are here attending the parliamentary majority, just because it has a majority, imposes this wrong solution on Serbia today. From all that is said and what we know, Radovan Jelasic does not enjoy the reputation of being in this place. It is enough for any and the lowest civil servant to be dragged into any affairs, any fairies, any machinations, that it may have been said that tax payments were being played, that a smaller figure was being displayed when buying the house. It was that famous affair of Villa Jelasic, it was never explained, we never got the documentation. I'm telling you, and it's a porter at a state institution who can't have any kind of affair, that something's dirtying up his moral character. And we need to choose someone who's in a place where an absolute moral character is sought, except for expertise and morality. So no one with any stain can count on any party's proposal to come to a place like this. If we go over it, I'm not going to say that parliamentaryism broke, because we here can't fight by imposing the majority, it's not parliamentaryism imposing the majority, it's debate and finding the best solution for our country and our citizens. We have to serve the public interest here. Gentlemen, the more powerful we are to fight for the interests of the citizens and to say that such characters should not be governors of the National Bank, the more powerful they are to the citizens. As far as we can't fight it, they can't fight it. They should remember that and know what's going on in the assembly today. I'm going to look back, except for the moral character, who is really crucial and very important here, to say where are these patriots when it comes to these institutions? How do we perform in the world, what do we look like? Look, please, a respected expert. Is this distinguished expert, who is said to be a respected expert, where he is a respected expert, where he has proved to be a respected expert? Also, the criteria, when it comes to expertise, must be taken seriously, it says "published scientific papers". Could Mr. Radovan Jelasic have honored us or had someone from his MP club come out and say where these papers were, see what he wrote, how many papers he had, where his opinions were, where the experts and his views as experts were proven? At which international conferences did he participate, where did he present his ideas? Not to say he humiliated us here today because he didn't come, to hear for the next five years what Serbia's monetary policy would look like. Not only to answer our questions, which were very difficult and complicated, but also to say that they will lead monetary policy, that we know what awaits us for the next five years. That's what they make jokes about, that's what they insult MPs after, that's what they get out there, instead of giving serious answers to such a serious topic. I don't know if we as MPs can be more responsible for what's going on in the Serbian Parliament. That executive power, whether we're the only ones printing it, hitting stamps, so let it go, from the state audit, it doesn't matter that it's a political institution, it doesn't matter that someone can't even write a biography. And we see here on the basis of which his expertise and his scientific works are validated. Why does that stand in terms? If he were an expert, if he had scientific papers, there would be a five-page biography here, not if he could fit half the page. Gentlemen, understand that we are doing one responsible duty here. First of all, I address the DS, which, I say, is a great disappointment to us, but that is why I hope that voters will be able to remember this and punish such parties that go beyond the interests of citizens and through public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6583	The word has a folk MP, Zeljko Ivanji, and then a National MP, Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6584	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has passed the time when people qualified for a function published by works or books, now is the time when people qualify for the results they have achieved. Most importantly, it is that G17 plus and Serbian citizens have full confidence in Radovan Jelasic. But this trust must also be given tomorrow, in the co-operation of the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because without full and active co-operation of fiscal authorities, no monetary control plan, aimed at achieving stable cash flows, can ever be successful. The sacred objective of the NBS is to achieve and maintain price stability, because without a wise monetary policy, which provides a low inflation rate, no one in this country can be successful and no one can live from their work. Let the government always keep that in mind, but let it be clear to the export lobby that the profits can only come from a quality and competitive product, not from a weak dinar. And now I'm telling them that we won't give our money. We're proud of it, after a dark period when the German brand was everything, when the dinar was unsuspectingly printed to get the stamps out of our pockets, who were poor, with the aim of ending up in the pocket of thieves, who kept social peace that way. Today, in 2007, I ask the question - did we promise single-digit inflation? The answer is yes; inflation was 5.9%. In 2007, it will be between three and five percent, between two and four percent in 2008. It's a promise we make to this occasion. How did we do that? We succeeded because we ran the fiscal policy that made it possible, from VAT to fiscalization. It was the wind that allowed the National Bank of Serbia to go through the constant attacks of criminals who were actually dissatisfied with decisions to withdraw permits for the work of their Quasibans, who were machines for money laundering, who were constantly trying to buy Serbia. These are the money bought by lawmakers and purchased companies, bought by people and bought by political parties. We'll deal with crime. In a few weeks, we'll be handing over a law here at the Assembly that will allow the seizure of property to criminals. We're going to amend the Privatisation Act to make it impossible for criminals to buy what we've bloody created for years. Why did we propose Jelasic to be governor of the National Bank? Because the national bank of Serbia's reference interest rate dropped to 9.5% this year for just nine months from 20%, thanks to the low level of inflation, the stability of the currency market dinar, the stable growth in economic activity; because the foreign reserves today were $13.59 billion, and in 2000, they were $300 million; because the average net earnings in 2000 covered the average consumer basket with 33.7%, in 2006, with 84.2%, and today at 97.7%. Because the level of foreign savings today is $5.5 billion, because 30 quasibanks have been closed, and out of 7,000 people, who have lost their jobs, are now working 30,000; because the improved insurance sector, with a share of 2% in the gross social product and growth of premiums per capita from 38 euros in 2004 to 65 euros in 2006; because today we have seven pension funds. Because the National Bank takes care of the citizens of Serbia, taking measures that allow unreal borrowing of citizens and for helping citizens to exercise their rights, by forming a special centre for the protection of consumers of financial services. That is why we have proposed Jelasic as governor and that is why Serbian citizens give him another mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6585	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6586	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to you under Rule 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, item 1, which says among other things that I have the right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the event of an incorrectly interpreted presentation of MPs. The previous MEP G17 plus commented in a dim way on the discussion of the LDP MP, Mrs Pesic. I do not think at all that there is a need to defend Mrs Pesic from such an incorrect interpretation of her presentation, but I will only say for the sake of the Serbian public that Mrs Pesic quoted Article 16. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which states in Section 2 that the governor may be elected a person who meets the general conditions for working in state bodies, a person who has high professional training, an adequate working experience in the field of economy, finance and banking and a person who has stood out as an expert or scientific worker in those areas. Just quoting Article 16. The law on the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs Pesic, gave another argument in favour of the debate that was launched against our will and which is the direct position of the parliamentary majority's intention to humiliate the Serbian Parliament and thus fragile democracy in our society. We wanted to hear Mr Jelasic or Mr Jelasic's serious representative in the debate in this House. We don't want to listen to reports that one read and the other write. That is why we point to the wrong and unacceptable arguments that follow the whole day's debate on Governor Jelasic. Is it possible to discuss the election of the governor of the National Bank, and to forget the language of insults, which is characteristic of Serbian politics, and whether, in the absence of any other argument, in fact here in parliament, the arguments which destroyed reforms in Serbia in 2003 have begun to live, solely because of the ambition of Mladjan Dinkic and the G17 party, plus that, by not choosing funds, they return to power. I think that in the meantime you've become aware of it, and that today you wouldn't behave the way you acted in 2003, but unfortunately, that price is paid by Serbia to a much greater extent than one party or any of its members. We want this debate to run in an argument and we've made our contribution to that. Mrs. Pesic quoted the law that the proposings were obliged to respect, so that among other things, we, as MPs and representatives of the citizens who voted for us, say what a scientific contribution it is to the candidate for Governor Radovan Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6587	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the 104th member of our Rules of Procedure, where it's said to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. One of the predecessors went out and told this congregation that the time had passed when people qualified for works and books, but the results of work. This assembly will not allow itself, at least the MPs of the SRS, to speak so vulgarly and make views, in order to defend something that is difficult to defend. To be clear, a book and one paper cannot be qualified, but it is the result of some work. You can appreciate it or not appreciate it, but when you are told that one such thin biography is not suitable for one such prominent place, then be at least a little consistent and see what is written in that little text: "and mastered finance in 1995 at the University of Illinois in Chicago. "Master it's an academic degree of scientific title, right? What does that mean when someone's mastering? He qualified himself to be able by scientific means to observe phenomena from the field he deals with. Therefore, do not say such things. This congregation appreciates those who write books, who have academic titles, and today, without knowledge, there is nothing, and especially there is no permanent improvement in that knowledge and permanent education. Who's the drawbar? It's science, scientists. It would be nice for you to say, in other countries of the developed world, that you are for Euro-Atlantic integration, there are academic titles behind people and there must not be a hundred works, but a dozen professional works. Just enough to make it clear to you what we consider radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6589	The word has an MP, Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6590	Dear colleagues, Mr. Albianic took ten seconds to correct my microphone, just so you know. (President: Mr. Bayatovic, I apologize, we repeat. You're from G17, it's okay. I'm kidding. I apologize for this remark. I wanted to start with that, when a man here speaks daily, he could say, "Maybe I'm not a man, I'm a socialist, it doesn't matter." When a man speaks daily here, then he should say the following thing after this speaker, which you are dealing with this biography of Mr. Future Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and the former governor, because if a man had written what he did, it would not have been the Assembly he would have been concerned with, but probably Dragan Jocic. So it doesn't make sense that he writes everything he's done here. Well, because he's the Home Secretary, if anyone doesn't know. On the other hand, the people say again why you're asking him for all these papers. To be an expert, it's very important that you haven't done anything before and you have, say, a course completed. Well, well, coursers or something. But I won't say it like that, there's one much more serious thing. I think Mr. Jelasic, no matter what he's involved in many things, is actually just a figure. The central question, gentlemen of Parliament and of the Members of Parliament, is whose candidate is Radovan Jelasic as Governor of the National Bank? Governments of the Republic of Serbia? It's not. He went through a procedure on the Finance Committee, but no one's serious about defending him. The G17 Plus gentlemen defended him, but he said he wasn't their member. Whose candidate is Jelasic? Jelasic is an IMF candidate for governor of the NBS. I apologize to the ruling party for not being able to separate the role of the G17 from the others here. I don't care if they were blackmailed by Mladjan Dinkic or not. The methodology of their settlement is obvious. As everyone knows the saying - you can do whatever you want, you just can't go as far as you want. What's the IMF today? The IMF is today a financial insolvent institution, which has been practically expelled from all states, I repeat, from all countries in which it has conducted transition processes. Wherever the IMF worked, that's where the reforms failed, gentlemen. Those who have escaped the role of the International Fund in their country, for example Slovenia, do not God forbid we mention China because we cannot measure ourselves, you have successful and privatisation, and transition, and a successful economy today. There is one parliamentary question that I would like to ask in the context of this presentation, and it is -- are there really people who are representatives of the IMF in any form in the NB? I am interested in whether this independent institution is leading that policy that corresponds to Serbia or does not lead the policy that corresponds to Serbia. Therefore, that is the way to go. Based on the Washington Agreement, what is the IMF's policy? Liberalization, stabilisation, privatisation? I don't know all the names of the baptized, or the epithets attached, we all talked about here. Not only is it socially unfair, but it has also been economically inefficient and has truly created the elite of rich people, who are asking whether they can, should be Serbia's economic elite. As for stabilisation, and later on, I will talk about how citizens understand the scope of the NBS work, it is true that the euro is stable, but it is also true that the euro is underestimated. What's the truth? It is true that today in Serbia, an import lobby plays a very large role. There is no serious economist, no matter who and which school is economical, who will not tell you that imports are stimulated in Serbia and destimulated exports. Is that what we want? If you will defend yourself by inflation in Milosevic's time, you will hardly be understood by the citizens. Citizens understand that the privatisation and stabilisation project has the result of millions of unemployed, that Serbia is not an economically efficient society, that we have 1.4 million pensioners that the government sees as a cost. You want to talk further about what citizens understand from the reports that you file in percentages, figures and where we compare to the world, and we are far from world and culture, and by technology and by products, and I'm afraid of the quality of the political elite. So, gentlemen of the government, first of all I'm talking to you, it's hard here to separate whether this is a solution from G17 or whether you all accept this. If you're going to accept this with 126 votes, then you must accept responsibility for such a move. Furthermore, I cannot agree on the reform of the banking system. I'm not going to repeat the arguments that others have made here, but I'm going to make one claim. Only those banks that agreed with the government came into this country, thanks to a small five-million-dollar censorship. It was correct that Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic said they had come out to 800m euros. But what does that mean? That means there are no serious banks. That means the Balkan oligopoly was formed. That means the NBS has been centralizing banking operations. This means that for too long, the banking rates will be very high for the economy, especially for agriculture, completely debilitating. It's clear why they went to the population. The population is eager for everything. For many years, there was a state of war. After that DOS, the people were orphaned, robbed, everything was fine, but with which we'll start the economy. This bank doesn't work towards the economy. You must have a mechanism to influence the breaking of the banking oligopoly. You can't NIP, which I hope will be developmental and not political, and I already doubt it will be developmental. That's what you have to do by having domestic banks. What was done with the domestic banks. Not only have they been evicted in a radical and highly suspicious manner, and it would be interesting to look at the balance sheets of these banks, but the mechanism that our state, if these banks were in its possession, could affect interest rates. There's really one question that's being asked, and I'd like it to be asked as an MP. Is it true that, say, about this, there are 11 billion dinars in the account today in Belgrade, that there is an individual, at the request of the finance minister or another minister. Eleven billion dinars are very big money for our economy, and I wish we knew the same about the former Investment Bank, including South Bank, Beobank, however you wish, not to count all those banks. Please, let it be a parliamentary question. Maybe people really have an answer for why those four banks are ruined. Is it possible that for seven years the bankruptcy procedure has not been completed or that the political will to have the state simply has no mechanism, because in this way those who do so have a clear explanation of why they cannot intervene in the financial market in a good way and help the domestic economy above all? The same applies to the degree of protection of domestic production, but since this is not a topic at this point, it is really a question that, when applying these recommendations coming from the EU, we can protect, for example, our agricultural producer who is exposed to dumped products from the EU. Here is the next question - why can some banks, such as City Bank, Deutsche Bank, Frankfurt Bank, and some good Russian banks, not get a license? Because this would annul the agreement between Serbian oligarchs, political powers, many of whom sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and small banks, not to mention their names, because you have no one else to turn to, about the banking oligopolies, so the interest rates in Serbia are so high. I must also say that I am very pleased that here some, who have sold ideas on October 5th or failed them, however they will today, speak very well of each other, as they are thieves, as they are criminals, as they are mutually opposed sides, bring about each other dirty laundry. Also, I want to ask... That's right, Mr. Todorovic, that's why I asked for a special court clerk to sit here and act on official duty. Let's just say, just one example, I really don't want to insult a woman, maybe she's doing great, but the vice governor's name is Anna Gligorievic, a philologist. Please, run only three sectors in the NBS - foreign affairs sector, international co-operation, vault jobs. Otherwise, the financial profession has completed its course in Washington, the IMF Institute, financial analysis and planning techniques. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: In what language? That would be in English, Mr. Krassic. Otherwise, there is one reasonable doubt, as was the case with CEFTA, that the most important thing is that you know English or perhaps some other international language, for the simple reason that, what happens then - what you need to do comes to you, you translate it into Serbian and tell our dear public everything you need to know. In order not to take too much time for my colleagues, it is necessary to pass the National Bank Act as soon as possible, to change these powers of governors, urgently to restitution the domestic banking system. They, in effect, started to sell out, about the Vojvodina Bank, I'm not even going to talk about, which was supposed to stay working, all those banks that were domestic and were supposed to stay, they also privatized them. Therefore, there is no mechanism. It must, gentlemen, be done as soon as possible by the domestic development bank, with decent capital, which will affect not only interest rates, but the state mechanism for regulating interest rates in general. I have a proposal for Mr. Jelasic. I was asked by journalists - what would you recommend to Mr Jelasic, when elected, to do? I really do have a recommendation - let him resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6591	The People's Messenger is Zarko Koraq, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Nadika Momirov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6592	Dear Mr Vice President, honourable Members of the People, I appeal to Article 104. It's here today, it's nothing unusual, it's an open question of how to talk here in the Assembly, and I have to say that it's an interpretation that asking questions about the biography and personality of the man elected governor of the National Bank of Serbia is interpreted as offensive to the Assembly, to the public who is watching this. I think it's really wrong. The governor of the National Bank of Serbia is elected by the National Assembly, which shows the enormous importance of the function. Secondly, he is elected for a period of five years, meaning, much longer than MPs, who are theoretically elected for four years, which means, if elected, he will certainly be governor longer than the mandate of this assembly. Finally, this place has a very important function, not only within the monetary policy of a country, but in general economic flows, and even social and political ones, and the opening of these issues is the work of this assembly and its duty. I must say, there is no reason for them to rebel against each other and react like this, completely inappropriately, some MPs from the G17 Plus party, some of the questions that have been heard here are open to the public. This does not mean that every question that is open to the public must necessarily be transferred here to the Assembly Hall and made public, but may be. Two questions have been asked here. It is one thing that the governor did not give a convincing explanation of some financial transaction relating to the purchase of his house, i.e. whether an adequate tax was paid. Secondly, does he bear moral responsibility for the fact that his vice governor, elected on his proposal, arrested, detained, released, and that there is a court trial. By the way, that man, as far as I know, correct me if I'm wrong, right after he was released from custody, was an advisor to that same bank, which is a truly unique case, if this is true. In other words, it is an institution, not Mr Jelasic. I'm going to end up with a man who's been in America for more than 10 years at the head of federal reserves, Mr. Greensman, certainly was the most influential person in America when it came to monetary policy and I know, when he was talking, the whole of America was literally waiting to see what he was going to say about the projection of his inflation and economic development of the United States. We defend here, by asking these questions, by asking the institution. It is true that Mr Jelasic has been nominated today and that he has been governor so far, but it is our moral obligation to ask these questions precisely because of the importance of this function. I would pray, when these questions are raised, that we do not have, as a counterreaction, really insults and questions that are not really relevant to this topic. You set them up somewhere else, no one takes that right away from you. But now that these questions are being opened, it is in your interest to provide a convincing answer to these questions. Finally, if a question of some kind of tax was asked in the case of a home transaction, it is truly unusual that no one gave a convincing explanation whether it was an abuse or whether the media incorrectly interpreted it. I thank you, and I apologize for extending.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6593	National MP Nadica Momirov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6594	I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure - People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to address each other with respect, and regarding what Mr. Bajatovic said, that is to say, he asked the question - who is proposing Mr. Jelasic, that is, why this item of the agenda at today's session. First, a member of the Constitution 95 says - The National Bank of Serbia is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, is independent and is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. The National Bank of Serbia is run by a governor elected by the National Assembly. You know, according to the Rules of Procedure, the procedure for proposing a candidate for governor, which has been done. And here we have a convocation, so based on Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we apply to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 and ask that, on the basis of Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, set a time for holding an extraordinary session, where many MPs from several parliamentary groups have been signed. Please treat us with respect who suggested this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6595	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only answered about it after Mrs. or Miss Momirov misrepresented me. So it is not disputed who suggested Jelasic in a formal and legal sense. I don't have a questionable member of the Constitution, or procedures in the Assembly, or emergency procedures, or what I received this morning's report from the National Bank, nothing is disputed. I've asked a fundamental political question, and I'd like you to convince me that I'm wrong. In my understanding, Jelasic is not a candidate of the government, nor of the Committee, nor of the G17; he is an IMF candidate. I presented the reasons why Serbia should step out of that position. Everywhere, from Poland, from all South America, from all countries in Europe from the IMF transition has been expelled. They're just sitting around offices in the government and the National Bank. It's my political position, I have information about it, and if necessary, let's cross the spear around it. Please, the procedure is respected in the sense that we have reached the candidate in some proposed procedure, but it is politically extremely suspicious how we reached the candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6597	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6598	Of course, that's Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you know what this is about, Mr. Albianic, so I don't want to explain it to you. I think Mr. Bajatovic is really right and if we care about the dignity of the legislative body, then we would really have to get answers. All those who signed to have this session held urgently escaped from the O.R. Here, DS is down to five-six, DSS on three-four, New Serbia on a few, G17 neatly with written speeches, not slow, that's their right, I know they've been practicing in Subotica. Mrs. Momirov has been practicing as a second-guessed replica of Zoran Krasic. That's what they've been practicing for years, but it doesn't matter. In front of the mirror, on the microphone, they practice. It's not a problem, it's their individual choice. But we really need to get an answer on who's proposing this man. The motionary's official escaped the poor guy, he can't even take a picture here. They're gonna rip his shorts out in a few days in Nis. What do we do? The Democratic Party has escaped, he says, with this gang I have nothing to do with it. The DSS, they won't even hear it. Explain what the MPs are for then. Mr. Bajatovic is absolutely right. Are the aliens behind this candidate? When we came to the congregation, they shared flyers with us. It says - Serbia in the first place. Or who Radovan Jelasic is. Is Serbia a banana republic in which any international fraud can get hold of high state functions and Serbian couples. There's citizenship here, decisions, etc. Here you go, Mr. Albian. Now, this banana republic; the banana represents him here. He went out and read that biography. I suggest that this session be terminated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6599	Mr. Krasic, I ask you with respect that we treat each other and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6600	It hasn't been three minutes, and you can't interrupt me. Take care of that Rules of Procedure. I suggest that those who are in charge of implementing the Constitutional Law to organise themselves urgently, agree on what they will and what they will do, because this proposal is clearly insulting to the National Assembly. We've been experiencing everything and everything here, one break in at 2:00 in the morning in jeans, the other comes in here and yawns, so it's been clipping all day. Enough, guys, cut it out. By the time I got out, I had to draw everyone's attention for a year and a half to answer the question of where the state reserves of the Republic of Serbia are, in which bank, under what conditions. Just to remind you that two months ago, and Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic and I, here from this pay phone, probably asked a question twice, what was done with the cash registers, who stole the money, who made the deficits. And there isn't a finance minister here to ask him a question, how he's not ashamed, he'll never be able to make a surplus like his predecessor. So, Mr. Albianic, call the president, organise normal work in the National Assembly and stop this demeaning of the entire Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6601	The word is from Ambassador Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6602	Dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I will speak as I have always said and as I have suggested to my colleagues on the left and right to speak, to talk about economy and economic issues in terms of numbers. Secondly, in no way will I talk about a personal solution, whether in a positive or negative sense. So it concerns the institutions of the National Bank and concerns the macroeconomic policies of the government. Next, I won't talk about good qualities, about good parameters, because the institution and there are results, some standard effects. An individual and an institution exist to achieve what is expected, which is planned. In this respect, foreign exchange reserves, interest rates and all other positive indicators had to and meant to be realised. I'm going to say, and I think that every problem debate, whether it comes from the left or from the right, should contain, about the troublesome sense, about the bad, in my opinion, the phenomena that characterized our macroeconomic policy. So I am not binding to an individual, but to an institution, to the National Bank Council and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'll have all three appearances tied up for 2006. First point, course and external trade deficit. The numbers first. The first of January 2005 - course 79.08. In May of 2006, after 17 months - 88.50 sales. At the end of last year 79, after 24 months. Today, September 25th, the course is 79 dinars. Thirty-three months have passed, the course is nominally the same, and at the time of the official rate of inflation, those published by the Statistical Office are: 2005 - 17.7, 2006 - 6.6 and 1 September 2007 about 7%. Total cumulative growth rate of domestic prices is 1.34 and 34% respectively. Therefore, gentlemen, net exporters, those who exported more than they imported today get the same dinar as 33 months ago, and in the meantime, their imputations grew on average 34%, some far more. So much for the export lobby. What export lobby? I'm a representative of a large net exporter factory. When this, nothing-provoked, strong dinar started, we had a salary in Serbia higher by 12% than the average of the Republic, now we have a salary lower by 25%. The difference is over 30%. What a strong dinar has brought, what we have as a consequence is a foreign trade balance deficit. The foreign trade balance deficit is one of the categories of parameters that is practically directly caused by the euro course towards the dinar. That's what I personally felt, as someone who dealt with our economic reality. In front of companies that are net exporters, we have written the last 20 months of warning to the government of the Republic of Serbia that macroeconomic policy instead of stimulating net exporters, it has made them victims of the economic moment. Why? Because a strong dinar is the counterweight of large public spending. And that's what Mr Jelasic said, he said more than once, but practically the macroeconomic policy has made a result, instead of reducing public spending practically, inflation is guarded, targeted inflation is kept by a strong dinar, or an unreal course of dinar compared to the euro, thus reducing export competitiveness. Gentlemen, Nikola Sarkozy, President of France, strongly resents the European central bank because the euro is too strong compared to the dollar and thus reduces export competitiveness. So, the government's macroeconomic policy next year, and we're going to see it in the budget, has to turn things around. Instead of a strong dinar and reducing the export competitiveness of our economy and the large external trade deficit, which follows, we must go to cutting public spending, and to a balanced exchange rate of the euro... (President: please let's hear the speaker for a moment.) )......................................................................................................... that is, the euro that will stimulate the economy. The conclusion is that we in the 2007 budget obviously have no room for changing macroeconomic policy. The course will continue to be strong, because it is practically due to the contract, due to an increase in public spending, because of the increase in wages there is no room for reducing public spending. But the 2008 budget, the finance minister has already indicated that there will be a change in balance, that it will go on a realistic course, and on the other hand that basic inflation, or projected inflation, will be defended by cutting public spending, which is unbearablely high. It comes over 46-47% of gross social product. The second point, where it has already been said, of state bonds, i.e. the sale of state papers in 2006, already has several speakers pointing to that point. We have a definitive failure in 2006, when the National Bank's reference interest rate was 18 to 24%, at the same time as the planned inflation of 6.6% and when there was an appreciation of the 10% dinar. So, one clumsy move, at least a clumsy move from the National Bank. And for this clumsy move, I don't think he's responsible, no matter what his colleague Todorovic says, I don't think he's a responsible individual, the government's policy and the National Bank's Council is responsible. That it was a clumsy move showing parameters in 2007. Gentlemen, the National Bank reference rate is 9.75 now and the inflation rate is about 7%. This shows that the National Bank reference rate is always at two or three percent above the inflation target rate and should be maintained. Third point, business bank loans. I also think that the National Bank and macroeconomic policy could have acted differently. By prescribing major mandatory reserves, the bank's rules of procedure virtually did nothing, but the borrowing of legal entities was done abroad, because the mandatory reserves of foreign banks' interest rates were lower, so that the final debtors were in debt in foreign banks. My colleague is showing me something suspicious. Finally, I think that as regards the macroeconomic policy of the Central Bank and the Government of these few points, which is the reference rate of the National Bank, which is already practically harmonised, it is 9.75 in relation to inflation of seven-eight percent, but above all, the policy of the course, which is a question where we as MPs have to appreciate the 2008 budget. We must conclude according to him whether there has been a change in macroeconomic policy to the extent that Serbia's economy requires it. Otherwise, we with a euro course, or a dinar towards the euro at this level, and with no macroeconomic policy measures that would substitute exporters to what they are losing on the course, we will indeed be in a position to keep the external trade deficit on the rise. I'm finishing the discussion; the external trade deficit at this point is that it's going to be about $8 billion, it's dangerous about 15% of the gross social product. In this regard, the government and Central Bank's macroeconomic policy must change, starting as far as 2008 because by extending the policy of too strong a dinar and reducing the original competitiveness, our external trade deficit will cross a dangerous area of gross social product height. In that sense, my last message is - we should vote in the future and talk about changing macroeconomic policy in the sphere of monetary policy, and that personal solution is a matter, as you yourself said, of a political agreement between the parties currently representing the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6603	The People's Messenger Sasa Valjarevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nebojsa Zdravkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have today at this session a proposal for governor of the National Bank, but it's from another attempt. At the first session, held in June, the ruling majority had no political agreement and did not give confidence to today's proposal to propose Radovan Jelasic to the governor of the National Bank. However, after four months, possibly political deals, a solution has been made to propose Radovan Jelasic again and after half an hour of waiting on the Finance Committee somehow managed to vote for Radovan Jelasic to be today's candidate. For the sake of Serbian citizens, since the party proposing this candidate, which is G 17 plus their president, otherwise current minister Mladjan Dinkic, has called all MPs of the National Assembly that they are guilty of contributing with their dislikability that the government cannot function and that is why the Serbian Parliament does not start on time. He could have said that about the ruling coalition, or members of the current ruling DOS coalition, the DS, the DSS and the G17. Otherwise, members of the SRS Committee also took part in a break when the Assembly failed to function, but the ruling coalition did not have a political agreement at the time and did not have a quorum to decide on proposals for both the state audit institution and the candidate for governor of the National Bank. So Serbian citizens know that Mladjan Dinkic's statement absolutely does not stand, that SRS MPs and other opposition parties have been coming to all sessions, and that the ruling coalition did not, because it is likely that no political deal has been reached. The political dil, which resulted in Radovan Jelasic being re-proposed, also appeared at the session, which had such a flow that they did not comment on the proposal at all, but simply voted on the party's orders to accept him as a candidate. As for Radovan Jelasic, who was a vice governor when Mladjan Dinkic was governor of the National Bank, who led to the destruction of the entire banking system of the Republic of Serbia, which subsequently established the National Savings Bank, showed up as a domestic bank, where they were granted the exclusive right to return the old foreign savings to the bank, and the question arises why it was allowed to lose most of the state's capital capital capital of the National Savings Bank and to sell it to the Greeks afterwards. So, it's made-up, it's destroyed the entire domestic banking system. All SDK buildings and all their facilities in all cities were then given to the National Savings Centre, and then sold to a Greek bank. These are the successes of Mladjan Dinkic, who resulted together with the current governor, suggested Radovan Jelasic, that tens of thousands of workers, then domestic banks, were out of work. As the economy in our society works, we see that from 2000 to 2007, we have a million unemployed, that these banks that have now opened their exposures or their seats in Serbia are hiring very few people, so what they were talking about when they closed down their domestic banks, that they would all be employed, is not true at all. There were plenty of experts and experts in Serbia who could compete for this place. However, it is likely that G17 would cover up all of the malversions that Mladjan Dinkic was doing while he was governor and then succeeded by Radovan Jelasic, they had to propose him. Djelic spoke before the government was formed, when he was a candidate for prime minister, that he would not allow the blackmails of G 17 plus to keep Radovan Jelasic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia, however, and then he gave in. He's the governor. We see that even now blackmailing by G17 still works successfully, although I say, the first time was not successful in July, when he did not get the consent of his coalition partners, but he got consent yesterday on the Finance Committee. You heard earlier from colleagues when they were almost empty this left side of me, by his coalition partners who were supposed to support Mr Jelasic that no minor was in the hall, one or two MPs from the ruling coalition. It just shows how much they support today's candidate. Otherwise, today's candidate, Radovan Jelasic, does not deserve to be proposed at all for such a high and important function for the state of Serbia, to be governor of the National Bank of Serbia, because we know that in this past term he has had a series of affairs behind his name and last name. I will remind you of the 'Koffer' affair, as my colleague mentioned earlier, when Vice Governor Simic was arrested, when the name was mentioned and when the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Radovan Jelasic, was called, that the money was intended for him. How to explain when the bank's license is signed by the governor, it cannot be signed by the vice governor, but the governor is signing, and it is known that the Credit-Export Bank, which gave that percentage or bribe to obtain the license, over, certainly, is Simic trying to pass it on to the current governor. Since you gentlemen are in favour of European integration and you want to show us that you want to rule democratically, this same governor should have resigned immediately and be responsible for the situation in the National Bank of Serbia, because something like this cannot happen under the auspices of such an important institution for the functioning of this state without being responsible for the leader, which is the governor of the National Bank. In addition to the affair, the affair was mentioned, and there was even talk that proceedings would be initiated against the governor in connection with the purchase of a villa in Dedinj. However, it was written by all possible media, and none of it was. It was fleeting, quickly forgotten, and, behold, miracles, once again, we are offered such a candidate to be a candidate for governor of the National Bank. Just now, my colleague was talking about course. Yeah, buddy, it's been three years on 79-80 dinars. But you probably don't believe that it's a real course of dinar in Serbia, which it isn't. All the indicators indicate that this course is not real and that this course is now forging an import lobby, and I'm going to tell you why. Because even in the budget, which was adopted this year, beyond all deadlines that exist in the law, the majority of the revenue in the budget is from taxes charged by imports of foreign goods. We know that in Serbia, the economy has been in total collapse, that since 2000, after this robbery privatisation, no industrial enterprise has worked anymore. All goods are now imported and we no longer have domestic production. These small private companies that are being opened are not enough to cover or deal with this import lobby. We know that many of the political powers that were in the previous government, which are now in this government and which are now in the leading ministries, are those who support the import lobby in relation to imports of complete goods on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is not true at all that your finding that he has preserved this course, because this course is not real at all to the situation that it is, and as far as our country's monetary policy is concerned. The only good thing we can say for Jelasic is that in an interview with the "Justice" list three days ago he criticised the work of this government and at all the finance ministers and other top people of this country not to run a good monetary policy of this country and that the projected inflation, which was 6.5% for this year, has been breached and that we are not writing well. It is, therefore, the only positive thing when Jelasic gave the interview and will again carry on the burden of Serbian citizens through business banks to prevent inflation. He cannot influence the government and surely when the government proposes him, he must be a blind obedient and carry out all those tasks that the government has given him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6605	The messenger of the people, Nebojsa Zdravkovic, appeared in the word, and let the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6606	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs, perhaps in no other country, the issue of the governor of the National Bank is as closely linked to monetary policy as it is with us and not without reason. The governor, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, personifies a policy that involves Serbia involved in the world, a modern country, with a decent respect, with a stable dinar and a favourable economic environment for foreign investment and a domestic economic initiative. I believe you know that, too. Therefore, by appealing to your determination to build modern and stable Serbia, I ask you not to approach the issue of the governor of the National Bank for a moment from a tighter position. If the effect of someone's work is measured by results, which should be a measure of everyone's work, then Mr. Radovan Jelasic has what to say and how to boast. This year's total inflation will be about 6%, and the base around 3%, with the possibility that price growth will be lower and a very low risk of overcoming those rates, but of course monetary policy will react by limiting their potential impact. Otherwise, what is best said about Governor Jelasic's abilities, the NBS has set its goal, achieving basic inflation from 4% to 8% in 2007, exactly one year ago. The sustainability of low and stable inflation requires decisions to be made on the basis of the expected rather than on the basis of the price developments achieved. I'm sure it makes you happy that for 2008, the projected goal of basic inflation is between 3% and 6%, in 2009 to be between 2 and 5%, and in 2010 between 2 and 4%. I believe that we all aim, in this high home, that Serbia has a modern monetary policy, which will achieve beyond the necessary environment for the overall reforms, which unfortunately calls out for every segment of our society. I think the NBS is doing exactly that, building a modern central bank institution, which will be ready to join the European family tomorrow. Therefore, respected fellow Members of the People, in the interest of those who chose us to represent them in this high house, in the interest of the future of our children, we support Governor Jelasic, above all in strict respect of the basic objective set by the NBS, which is to achieve and maintain price stability. Let us support one professional, responsible and modern monetary policy, that monetary policy that provides a low inflation rate, because today there is no country in our environment or in Europe that has high inflation. Of course, we should also support an independent central bank. This does not mean that the National Bank should not coordinate with the government, on the contrary, the best result can be achieved if it is working together to achieve and maintain a low inflation rate. However, the independence of the central bank implies that the National Bank will not deal directly with social, quasi-development policy or employment, export or regional development, and at least with election timing, but rather with a monetary policy that provides price stability and that all of these objectives that I have just listed will be achieved. In the end, we all know what kind of time Serbia is living in. The difficulties are great, but it's important what our perspectives are. With monetary policy, which is best achieved by NBS with Mr. Radovan Jelasic at the helm, there are clear indications: inclusion in the world, creating an ambience for entering foreign investment. Because, as someone said, the ability to make money is much more important than having money. That this is how the witnesses and examples of our neighbours Romania and Bulgaria, who, thanks to the reforms implemented, especially in the area of monetary policy, have become full members of the EU, on which we congratulate them, but at the same time advocate over the necessary reforms, which will bring Serbia into the society of modern European states. The challenges facing Serbia are indeed great, but our obligations and responsibilities to find a decent response to the difficulties we face. We believe that the monetary policy, which was successfully implemented and advocated by Governor Jelasic, is the best answer to these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6607	Thank you to MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Slobodan Maras, and according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Vladan Batic. Let the People's MP Alexander Marton be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6608	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I wanted to ask you, Mr. Chairman, one question. Did you perhaps invite the candidate for governor, Mr Jelasic, to come here, or do you have any idea if anyone invited him from those who were sitting in that seat before you? (President: Deputy President Albianic is just at consultations with the president. I wanted to ask you, if you didn’t invite him, why not invite him, and if he can’t come, we would love if one of the people who suggested him could come and answer some questions. Or maybe it was proposed by someone third, perhaps the head of the import lobby, the person we mentioned here several times, so Mr. Miskovic, the owner of Delta, maybe he suggested it. If it wasn't him who suggested it, let's see who suggested it and let him come over here and answer some questions. I expect you, Mr. Vice President, to advocate your authority to invite Mr. Jelasic to come here and answer some questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6609	Thanks for the vote of confidence. According to Business, the MP is Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6610	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, provision of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. If we were living in a happy country, today would be a holiday in the country's parliament. A man is elected to one of the most responsible functions in one serious state and all MP groups here would agree on this personality, which would have to be the person of the highest professional qualifications and the highest moral values. Unfortunately, we don't live in a happy country. If we were living in a normal country, there would be a controversy between the representatives of the government and the opposition in parliament, but a controversy about finesse and details of monetary policy, which should be represented by the governor of the National Bank of that country. We obviously don't live in a happy, normal country, and that's why we're talking about a man who's running for governor of the National Bank, so for one of the most responsible state functions, and he doesn't meet any of the two basic criteria necessary to perform such a significant function. He's neither professional nor competent, nor he's a man of high moral value. My question, among other things, was whether it was possible to debate at all that the governor would be a man who had suppressed the tax, and we all know that, the whole public of Serbia knows that, all citizens know, but since this is the result of some coalition agreement and coalition trade -- nothing. I'll remind you of that detail, despite the fact that I'm not interested in these picnics. You can no longer buy a salary on the Dedinj of 15.5 acres for 380,000 euros. It would have been a crime even if an anonymous individual had done it, and he'd probably have been hit by the law and probably been on the defendant's bench or in prison. But when a man who is governor of the National Bank and now re-applys for the governor in another term, it's in the real world unimaginable. Remember that strong media controversy, that businessmen Nebojsa Misic, Zoran Drakulic and many others reported that they offered the governor a double amount of money, but was helped by someone from the income administration, and he and the income management under the auspices of the same political party. I-I didn't do anything. Now everybody's mumbling, but since it's a matter of conscience or security, we can't argue about someone else's conscience without asking ourselves our own conscience. For this reason, gentlemen, I am speaking to you, not to others, but to fellow DS MPs, which is the limit, which is the moral rubicon, which is an ethical barrier that can be crossed for the sake of amnesty or the upheaval of those who need to be on the defendant's bench? Mr. Vujadinovicu, I have an excellent respect for you, but you were not allowed to speak in twisted form. You said all the worst, and it's not a personal solution. Well, every function is performed by a man, an individual with a name and a last name. My question to you is, as an expert, will you vote for Radovan Jelasic or will you comply with party discipline? Mr. Slobodan Gavrilovic wrote in his book a lot about Radovan Jelasic. Gentlemen, your Dragoljub Micunovic too. And, let me remind you, that your party's spokesman at the time, I don't know if today, Mr. Djordje Todorovic, said - first of all, it's a shame that at a time when most citizens barely put the end together, the governor buys a villa; I really think it's time for the governor to tell us how much he really paid and where he got that kind of money, says DS spokesman Djordje Todorovic. So that's what you were saying at the time, and you're not talking today. Some of you were in that movement whose motto was "just looking at you," and now you're just staring at both eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6611	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6612	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, on the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly is the election of the governors of the NBS. LSV MPs will not support this proposal and we will vote against Mr Jelasic. Radovan Jelasic headed the NBS in February 2004. MPs of the Assembly then viewed the election as an illegal or first-time form of illegality of legalists. As we know, it was a coalition caper, as some MPs used to say. The government's mandate has passed, new elections have been held and Radovan Jelasic is again a candidate for governor of the NBS. This year, at the Committee session, there was no need for a number of votes to propose Jelasic as a candidate, and it was clear to all that coalition partners were not very satisfied with the proposal for the governor to extend his stay to this for Serbia very important function. Recently, the "business Log" website quoted Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic as saying in which he demands a change in the country's monetary policy and accuses the NBS of high costs of 400m euros, what it costs Serbia to maintain projected inflation. So there's obviously a discrepancy between coalition partners. Vice-President Djelic, however, agreed to Jelasic's stay in office, but it should be mentioned that in the Serbian government, a new law on NBS is being prepared, which is being prepared without consulting the NBS and which is largely reducing the authority of the country's most important financial institution. As far as we know in LSV, the bill envisions the formation of a Greater Governor, with the aim of reducing the influence of Radovan Jelasic. It is very important to point out that the council would have the authority to determine the conditions for the end of the governor's term of office and the assessment of his work. So it is clear that there is no general agreement in the ruling coalition on the election of the head of the NBS, but we understand how this coalition works. Perhaps some in the ruling coalition are bothered by Jelasic's involvement in the "affer affair" and the fact is that he, in place of Deputy Governor NBS, suggested Dejan Simic, who was arrested in this affair. We also remember "a fairies affair" when, as is known, Jelasic bought, according to never clarified circumstances, a villa of 180 square meters and 15 acres of land in Dedinj, officially for 380,000 euros, i.e. for only 25% of the real cost of the house and the entire property. I would also like to remind that Jelasic was also a great humanist in the previous Kostunica government and that his work was the appointment of Mirko Petrovic as CEO of the "Dunav Insurance", although he had met only one of the five prescribed conditions. As an MP from Vojvodina, I wish Jelasic had a small relationship with the institutions of Vojvodina, because he was a very rare guest of our province's institutions. These are just some of the reasons why LSV won't support this choice and we call on those who criticized it a few years ago -- DS, and now they're doing it, just a little bit quieter, so they push the red button and don't support this choice. Finally, LSV MPs, to underline, do not vote for Mr Jelasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6613	The People's MP Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6614	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report in accordance with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or in accordance with Rule 98. I would like to remind you once again to interrupt the session and invite the candidate for governor, Mr Jelasic. We wouldn't want this to turn out to be some kind of obstruction. We simply think that the candidate for governor, because of the importance of function, is necessary to be present here and to answer many of the questions that have been asked. We have expressed our position by saying that we will vote against, above all, because it is part of a political agreement, meaning for political reasons. The other thing is expertise, and the third thing is that it's involved in a large number of affairs. A short while ago, counterpart Marton from the Duke's MPs' club mentioned that Mr Jelasic paid very little attention to Vojvodina. I could not agree with you, my colleague, for the simple reason that Mr. Jelasic was very engaged in two institutions, i.e. two banks when it comes to Vojvodina: Vojvodjanska Banka, where he tried to introduce OTP and afterwards to Kulska Banka, where he managed to introduce OTP and place as one of the directors of his excellent co-worker, a courier in action "coffer", Mr. Simic. I must point out, when it comes to Vojvodina, he was only engaged in this matter, it means that he introduced OTP into Vojvodina or Kulska Banka.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6615	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic. I just said that Vice President Albianic is at the necessary consultations, he will be here soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6616	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would only refer to the discussion of my colleague Slobodan Maraš. LDP MPs have asked several questions they have not received an answer. I am very sorry that the predecessor of the esteemed chairman allowed himself the luxury of flagrantly violating the Rules of Procedure, Articles 87, 99, 100, 101, 104 and 226, without even trying to give us an answer as to why he did it. He gave himself the right to the luxury of interpreting law and thereby offending all of us who are involved in legal science. By giving his view of the interpretation of the right, he forgot that there are legal institutes, such as cellulity, good customs, and a legal institute called public hearing or public hearing, depends on translation. He gave himself the right to say that it is absolutely unnecessary for Governor Jelasic to sit here among us and give us explanations. He is not present now, and it is obvious that we will be denied the necessary explanations and that we will be denied for everything we have asked both the chairman and the promoter. I therefore ask the current chairman to do everything possible to stop the LDP's demands and to stop the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6617	The People's Messenger, Miroslav Pejic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zarko Koraq.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, I think there are few state officials on our political scene in the past who have so professionally performed their duty, such as the governor of the NBS, Mr. Radovan Jelasic. He managed to completely separate the influence of politics from the work of the NBS. I'll just remind you that the NBJ in October 2000 had $ 360 million in foreign exchange reserves, and in conclusion at 31. 12. In 2006, the NBS had $12 billion, which is 33 times higher. I'd like to remind you that the ex-Yugoslavia foreign reserves were $10.3 billion at the time of the collapse, of importance. The return of old foreign savings, strengthening the banking system, restoring our citizens' trust in banks, are certainly credits to the government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the current governor of the NBS, Mr Radovan Jelasic, whose head has been at stake since 1 March 2004. As a reflection of monetary stability, the volume of daily traffic in the interbank foreign exchange market has increased 2.5 times in Serbia over the last year, with $174m in August. While this level of transport is relatively low compared to the market in some of the European Union members, it encourages high rates of daily traffic growth, suggesting that Serbia's interbank foreign exchange market is rapidly approaching the developed foreign exchange market. We also witness that Governor Jelasic held a solid course of dinars and dinar stability for just over three years, as far as the head of the National Bank was concerned. A stable dinar's policy is very important, because it not only prevents inflation, but also leads to a reduction in interest rates on loans, which fell during the past year. There is no reason not to believe in the governor's words that the foreign exchange market will be further liberalised this year. Every praise and intention is to focus more credits on the economy through the supervisory mechanism and less on the public, to make less money go into consumption. Just now, Governor Jelasic, looking at the credit portfolio of banks, is the only one who has had the courage to say that people in Serbia today have the same consumer manners as it was in the '80s, but the salaries will not be as they were in the '80s for a long time, and that this borrowing, in which citizens are now flocking, will not eat inflation as in the 1990s, because everything is indexed. Our citizen needs to assess whether he wants to live in a monetary fairy tale, get more dinars and keep his commitments growing or say it's better to lower it to a much lower level and do more work, not one place to borrow 2.5 or 2%. So these debts won't eat inflation this time. I purposely highlight this segment as an example of the responsible behaviour of a state official. As journalist Misa Brkic said on one occasion, Governor Jelasic cannot be said to be a political opposition to the Serbian ruling coalition and thus has a strong public warning to the government and its ministers when it comes to their political goals and ambitions. His warnings, at least so far, have been seen in party circles with a high specific weight and have been interpreted as concerns by a responsible state official who has been entrusted with the national currency. As he writes in his job description, Jelasic also understood his job as an obligation to speak publicly about the measures and effects of those who led to it whenever price and currency stability were threatened. For these reasons, I am responsible for saying that Radovan Jelasic is obviously an expert, because he has preserved the stability of dinars, financial stability, restored trust to banks and the functioning of the credit bureau. But whether it pleases the appetites of some and whether we can become a normal state, in which some things will be valued according to results rather than politicality, remains to show the time ahead, before each of us's responsibilities and responsibilities of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6619	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milickovic. Here you go, Milisav, and then Dr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6620	Ladies and gentlemen, provoked by my predecessor's speech, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure and Rule 225 and 226, and I'm looking for the next explanation and notice. Did Mladjan Dinkic and Governor Jelasic assign the state to Serbia for a billion and 650m euros during 2006? Did they turn that money into dinars per 85 dinar rate for one euro, and then placed it in the National Bank of Serbia's cash registers, which at that time brought interest of 22-24%? Is that money, which the National Bank of Serbia received from the cash register, Jelasic used to bring down the euro course, and is that what the privatisation money was used for? At the moment they charged money and interest from the cash registers, one euro cost 79.01 euros and in this way foreign banks in Serbia, in a short time, made a profit of 305m dollars. This concludes that Jelasic is an ordinary lobbyist of foreign banks who, thanks to him and high interest on cash registers, rob taxpayers. This robbery, respected citizens, is much bigger than the amount mentioned in the Cyprus affair. Since there is no one to give me this explanation, please treat this question as a parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6621	Dr. Vladan Batic. Here you go. Also in the Rules of Procedure. Have Mrs. Borka Wolf be prepared. Of course, before that, Mr. Free Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6622	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a few more questions for the police and the prosecutor's office regarding the operation or rather the character and work of Radovan Jelasic. So, what happened to the criminal charges against Radovan Jelasic by lawyer Alexander Lojpur over racketeering a bank for two million euros? That's the first question. Why has an investigation been suspended in the famous suitcase affair? Answer - for Radovan Jelasic. Dejan Simic is collateral damage in the whole story, but since collateral damage has a language, then after the investigation and detention of detention has been returned to the National Bank advisers, and is then under the auspices of Radovan Jelasic, Mr. Dejan Simic, which is a unique case - give me such an example, that a man is prosecuted for a crime, where a sentence of more than 5 years can be imposed, that he can establish a working relationship at all - while establishing a working relationship at the place of director at OTP bank, which was otherwise created by the merger and privatisation of Cepter, Niška and Kulska Banka. Of course, since Radovan Jelasic is a bank promoter that comes mainly from Hungary's territory, then we return to the topic of money laundering through the account of the HVB bank in Segedin, through the account of Hypo-hejvort companies, the plastics of Zoran Mitrovica, who gave UBOPOK exhaustively information about what he had agreed with Bojan Zecevic and Mladjan Dinkic on money laundering in that bank. Of course, Ubopok's boss Mladen Spasic covered up the whole story. Finally, again, a question for fellow MPs from the Democratic Party - gentlemen, I must remind you that my esteemed colleague, current Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic, said in an interview with Kurir on 30 May 2005, that he must be questioned to detail the origin of the property... Micun, you should say something about Radovan Jelasic, but here from this pay phone. (President: here you go, Mr. Batic. In your chosen words, which you used to mention earlier. (President: I ask Mr Batic to concentrate on the MPs. Mr. Vice President, you've allowed a happy atmosphere here, which is not my fault. (President: I am weak to Mrs. Vukic and Mr. Micunovic, I apologize. That's what I said a long time ago. I don't want to deal with your weaknesses, I want to continue. So Dusan Petrovic mentioned everything about Jelasic and Dinkic, and Labus, and it was done by Milan Markovic, and it was done by Bozidar Djelic, and now turkey dots don't apply, they're wonderful and honorable people, they're all forgiven because you're friends now. You spoke of Velja Ilic, and now you are with him in the government, and Jocic, then with him in the government, then Radje Bulatovic, so he is still head of State Security, so for Dejan Mihajl, for Balinovac, for Jocic, for Sarancic, and now for Jelasic. Where are the boundaries? What's the cost of government? The government is transient, the chairs are short-lived. It should stick to its principles and attitudes, beliefs and principles of its programme, which Zoran Djindjic drew. I'm sorry you gave that up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6623	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The People's Messenger, Mrs. Borka Vukic, has the word. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zarko Korac. I'm sorry, Borka. I'm sorry. Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6624	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Albianic, did you bring us information from the meeting you were at about whether you would interrupt this session and invite Mr. Jelasic to join us in the assembly benches? Mr Jelasic, for whom we received one of the good citizens just now, and I would like to get an answer to her, whether an investigation is being conducted against Mr Jelasic, the candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia, in the First Municipal Court, because of the lack of court ruling, against Mr Jelasic. It's important that the citizens hear why we want to see him here. As such, the person under investigation cannot be governor of the National Bank of Serbia. This isn't a whim. This is the need for citizens to know the truth, and I'd like to get an answer if that's the case. Also, we wanted to mention something else, that there are two banks under privatisation. This will probably be interesting to the gentlemen of the Patriotic bloc and others. So, it's the privatisation of the Kosovo-Metochy Bank and the Credit Bank. It's one job started and Mr. Jelasic wants to finish. For what? Because of the distribution of prey, as every time so far in privatization of certain banks. It's just about the loot. It's about the split of the money. That is why we expect answers to these questions. We really think it would be high time Mr. Jelasic came here as a candidate for governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Citizens need to know the truth. This is the only place they can hear the truth. If we're wrong, we'll admit we're wrong, but we also want to hear the answers to the questions we asked. Once again, I ask to be answered - whether an investigation is being conducted at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade against Radovan Jelasic because he does not execute the court's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6625	Thank you, Mr. Marash. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6626	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm intervention by article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. All the MPs who spoke from this place today, or almost everyone, insisted that a candidate for the governor of the National Bank, Mr Jelasic, come here to be present, so that he could answer certain questions of the MPs who wanted to ask him questions, or in the worst version, there was a proposal that, if Jelasic could not be there for some reason, then at least be a representative of the promoter, it is a representative of the Committee on Finance and that, if possible and if possible, he would answer some of these questions, because it is logical that the proposing representative can answer any question. A moment ago, Mr. Grouchy, you tried to make a joke at the expense of the National Assembly. This is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To the remarks of a folk MP, repeatedly said, to insist that Mr Radovan Jelasic come to this hall, you said -- now Mica Albianic has gone to consultations, now he will come and say what they agreed. If that's true, then I apologize to you for saying that you tried to joke, but apparently, since Mr. Albianic came to the O.R. in the meantime, that's where he sat for a minute and a half or two, he left the O.R., I asked him to come back, to hear what I wanted to say to him, or to ask him. If it is true, Mr Albianic, that you have been in consultation with Jelasic or someone who is in charge of Jelasic, then please tell us what you have agreed, when we can expect Mr Jelasic, if we can expect him at all, if he has not already started this procedure that Mr Maraš was talking about, perhaps Mr Jelasic has already been placed where he normally belongs. If you know that, tell us that we're not having an argument unless she makes sense. So, Mr. Albianić, thanks to Mr. Mrkonjic, you're going to have to tell us where you were, what you agreed on, what you agreed on, or maybe you were in Mathematical High School, where you teach four hours a week, and on behalf of that, in order for you to be placed in that mathematical high school, with those four hours, one of the professors who's already been employed here, the fund of classes has been reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6627	Thank you very much. The word of the messenger of the people is Borka Vukic; let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nadika Momir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6628	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will have to be a little more objective than all of you because I had the opportunity to meet Mr Jelasic, who is now a candidate for governor, in banking in '99. years, when he had his first year of banking work. It was in Deutsche Bank and I am very glad that in this short biography I read exactly what Mr. Jelasic was preparing for in '99. In that bank where I was then as president of the Belgrade Bank, which is mentioned today in such a light, which was then the 17th bank among the 500 largest and seventh banks in Europe. I don't remember him. He reminded me of that when he was in crisis headquarters and, unfortunately, that's how I remembered him. So Mr. Jelasic's biography shows that he was already preparing for this function in this bank. He says he spent in Frankfurt on the affairs of banking projects, in the sector in Germany, Poland, Bulgaria, related to lending, privatisation, takeover of companies, organisational and restructuring changes, drawing up a mortgage strategy, etc. The experience in this biography was approximately over a year. My countrywoman has now mentioned that it is the only governor who has shown great results in a short period of time in one country. I would have to say that I had a lot of contacts with the governors, just those big Western countries, China and Japan, the eastern bloc, and I've never met the governor, and I've had opportunities, I've been to 17 IMF and World Bank meetings, around the world and with us in 1979, the profile of this kind of governor, professionally, professionally, I've never met. That's what I'd like to say to my countrywoman, since she put it out in her presentation. I'd like to tell you something about Mr. Jelasic and I owe it to him. He may have been the only one who came across banks, not just the National Bank, after the operations of the crisis headquarters, I'm talking about business banks, Belgrade, Investment, Yugoslavs, the Beobans, he's had these contacts with us to implement the process of liquidating these banks. I have to say that he was the only one who was trained and that he learned it somewhere, so somewhere he was back then. So he didn't come completely unprepared. You've seen the qualifications he came in with. I'd like to underline that he's the only example that he's used one institution to come to a consultation once in a while and this very long consultation about the experiences of a bank on the purchase of our debts in a period of sanctions. I have to say, that meeting was very interesting and never again. This time my belief was confirmed that the whole management of the new, which came into banking and our economy, had no bearing on the continuity of the economy and the development of banking. I believe that Mr Jelasic is the concept, the previous colleague talked about it, I would not hold on to it, if it were all the result of a macroeconomic project that is being implemented in our country as well. I think it's a basic problem and he's absolutely prepared for it. So my experience and my observation was that I was really thinking about Mr. Jelasic, I wanted to say that he was one man in that sector from the perspective of a banking expert, from the point of view of who should be independent, not mature enough, because that experience does not exist. I can't talk about it because I really don't have any data. It's being solved on another channel. I'd like to say that I really think that's the basic problem. He could, he had the opportunity to extend his contact with the bankers and those who could at that point help him to do something, to continue to develop our economy in one continuity. He clearly explained that he represents that policy, has such a directive in terms of discontinuity and that it all starts from scratch. I think that's the biggest problem. This was in banking, it all started from zero, and these four development banks, which were mostly its professional ability and what it saw in the world, could show that they were really from those four banks, during that period were happening throughout the world and in the most developed countries, Italy, Germany, and in America, the integration of banks. I was trying to talk about it, which brought economic recovery and that brought a reprogramme, which brought recovery, consolidation, etc. Most of all, I resent him during that period when he was working on it as part of the crisis headquarters, then became governor, he and the whole team were turned to not doing so well, the data about it wasn't, and today there's a lot of talk about these banks. These banks still exist for seven years, they have their own accounts, they have their own resources, they have their own funds in other banks that have come, 20 or 23 as many as there are, and my assessment is that it has shown that it is not mature enough and it cannot fit into what at that moment could make much better effects and results. That's why I saw that the governor's candidate was very surprised, but that's why. What's a big deal and it can be resented to anyone who's preparing for one of these functions, it's that he was supposed to still be with us here today. It might be more helpful for him than for us, more likely those questions that are very sensitive here, morals and so on, would be viewed differently and perhaps bring a different picture. But on the Finance Committee, I had a chance to see how it would end. Coalition partners are in charge, this is where the deal was made. The system is such that the governor has to set himself up, and I totally agree with that. He can't remain governor unregulated and still. What I'd like to underline is that, we can't give a real assessment of Mr. Governor if we don't have a final account. We don't have a report. I haven't seen a single report, although I've looked at everything from the Board of Governors. There is a Board of Governors, and on the Finance Committee, it is mentioned that a member of the Council has resigned, I think there are five, so to say that this council is not working. We haven't seen a single report properly, as it is submitted under our existing regulations, so that we can assess something. Until we evaluate the final accounts from 2001 to 2006, as many as we don't have, not just the final accounts, but their audit, then maybe we'll have the right picture of what this is all about. I have to say that I don't believe in a series of data, monetary policy has been very prominent here and I don't want to talk about it, but I have to say that the foreign reserve is very suspicious to me, that the structure of the foreign reserve after a few questions we haven't received. We know that the overseas leads are over three, four, and we don't know how many because we don't have them, he occasionally gave it, that they actually cover our balance of payments deficits. Therefore, such an assessment, while we do not have an audit, is difficult to talk about otherwise. I resent the National Bank and its governor over the diaspora, whose contribution is not only to the signs, which are really large and which cover many times different needs abroad, I also resent that we still have unresolved problems with the diaspora. One of those problems was here. I resent him for never wanting to see the president or the members of the Diaspora Foundation for the queen. That's the Fund, which you had a chance when we had the amendment to solve, very important to us, that would be a nice investment fund. That fund has been unsettled for six or seven years. Therefore, the governor's relationship to some of the most important issues was not what it should have been and could have been, since this is a significant issue for the foreign exchange sector. Also, there's been a lot of changes in the vice governor, which are now members of the monetary body, but we don't have enough reviews to evaluate this real data. That's why I have to tell you that I've been doing a lot of thinking and listening to our own choices, from our people, why there's not another candidate for governor. He says we don't have a candidate. How can we not? It's not my turn to mention it. I know very respected people, professors, businessmen or economists, such as Mr. Dunjak Nenad, professor of the University, such as Oscar Kovac, such as Mrs. Curcin, Danica Popovic, etc. I mean, I don't like it, and I really need to underline that somehow, if we're already choosing the governor in this way, that nothing is done in the world, because the governor always agrees in advance, because that's who he is, but he's our extraserial and we can't compare him to others. Therefore, I would conclude that his big mistake was in this discontinuity both in economy and finance. The big problem we're going to face, whether the governor is going to be confirmed by the Assembly today or tomorrow, because it's finally in front of the Parliament, I think it's very important to know that the future governor should have this in mind, and that's the continuity in finance and economics. But what's much, much more important, the sooner the final accounts and financial business reports need to be completed, then we'll be able to do much more and we'll show what the Assembly can do on that plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-25-0.u6629	We interrupt today's work. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. We're starting with MP Zarko Koraq. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 110-nation MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 96 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Milena Stankovic and Rajko Baralic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a decision on the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia (the follow-up of the Single Search) The word has a folk MP, Miloljub Albianić, shall be prepared by MP Zarko Korać.
