ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8041	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'll be brief, I mean only ten minutes, as an authorised representative of the SPS. Surely the SPS and its MPs here in parliament will vote for all five laws, from 26th to 30th. I'll only comment on three, first this convention, and then these two laws that apply directly to the railroad. Why? This country has three priorities in terms of economy. The first is energy, the second is agriculture, the third is traffic. That's how it's always been and that's how it's gonna be, and every government that deals with this country needs to accept it. I'm glad that finally, and after the five-octobaric events, one government has accepted this concept of development. I've never seen him in papers, though, but I feel like he's reacting to the realization of certain projects that he's doing it. So, from the area of traffic that I belong to, there is one of the most significant projects in this country, which is Corridor 10. I would ask MPs to read, since I've fought a battle with most ministers over the past seven years, some of whom didn't even know what Corridor 10 was, to read what Corridor 10 is. The subject isn't uninteresting, and I won't strangle you very much. So Corridor 10 is one of the most important pan-European directions. The main route is Salzburg-Ljubljana-Zagreb-Belgrade-Niš-Skoplje-Solun; the Budapest-Subotica-Novi Sad and Belgrade branch, and a branch towards Nis, from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. It's Corridor 10 in both rail and road traffic. Everything else isn't Corridor 10. On Corridor 10, I was honored to work from 1987 to 1997. At the time of the strongest sanctions, we managed to enter the European Union into the UIC, the international Union of Railways, to enter the corridors and Corridor 10. In 1997 in Helsinki, the defined corridors of which Corridor 10 were given priority. After 1997, for 10 years, it was the realization of projects that were verified in Thessaloniki last year, and that's the convention we're talking about here. I must say, by then, between 1987 and 1997, a lot was done in the country, although it was not clear to some of the followers. The state passed a law on the implementation of the project and, under the law, the state allocated 20% of the funds for the implementation of the project. Project documentation was carried out and implementation started on Novi Sad-Belgrade knots, partly Nis, and border stations of Dimitrovgrad and Subotica. That may not have been visible to the citizens of this country, but that was done, so that we could be in a position today that we could move on, and that's why I support this project. Unfortunately, I have to say, on October 5th, all the development projects in this country have stopped, and this, for exclusively remanding reasons towards Slobodan Milosevic, and perhaps - even though I am not so important - to me, which has been notorious nonsense, and which has only helped us to move forward today to realize this project. I don't want to strangle you with technical data, but Article 3. The Convention says (this applies to Mr. Minister and his associate, and I ask that it be strictly monitored): the minimum commercial speed on the tracks should be 130 km per hour, that is the speed to which passenger trains go, and the projected speed of 160 or 220 km per hour. So it's already a sphere of high-speed railways or high-speed railways, which I promoted back in 1997 and for which I often suffered criticism of the opposition at the time, because it was a marketing move, allegedly. It wasn't a marketing move. What does that mean, Mr. Minister? That means there's no railroad repair, and that's happening today, outside of being provided for these speeds by the lower machine. We did one more share between India and Paz in 1997/1998. years for 220 kilometers, because Vojvodina allows it, and that's where tracks are set for less speed, and that's not good. So in that part, I insist that this convention be monitored to the point, only so that this project can be implemented. As for the time in which the whole project is to be completed, this map says so, I think Mr. Minister and the people in the Railways have that, in 2013, this corridor must be ready for this speed. So, that's five years from now, we have to ride the trains 80 miles per hour and travel across the country for a far shorter time. It's a task and that's why I'm having a positive discussion about this project, not critical or critical, because I don't think it's time to discuss some other things on a serious project like this right now and discuss it. In 2020, we have to finish the bar track, it's this map right here, and the bar track then enters as part of that corridor into the European railway network. These are the tasks that stand before the Serbian Railways. Why did I say public enterprises? Public enterprises are the backbone of our development. It's precisely because only development projects are hiring and every government needs to know. Development projects give young people a chance, and we today, all parties here in parliament have unanimously concluded, and in pre-election campaigns, and today we talk about it, that our people's unemployment is the biggest problem. It's exactly what these projects are hiring. They are often not visible immediately, although I will say one piece of information that is very important. For those people who do business, and I see that there are experts here who deal with it, the degree of profitability of this highway railroad is 8.5%-9% of the internal profitability and 16% of the external. What does that mean? The internal -- the return of money, the external -- the social community gets the benefit of it. Of course, someone spoke nicely here about the railroad towards Nis, so, of course, the arrival of new technologies, the affirmation of railways and the creation of conditions to make trains faster, that a new world is coming here. The very important information for our country's development strategy is the fact that we want to be the leader of the Balkans and the southeast of Europe in every respect. Absolutely, we socialists are joining that. But if that is the case, and if Belgrade should be the center of services of this part of the world, and it should be, then it must be connected to the fastest communication with the world. It's a task. So, from Belgrade must arrive in Budapest in an hour, in Bucharest in an hour, Sofia in an hour, I'm only talking about trains now, not airplanes. They're distances where trains are rentable. To Thessaloniki in two hours. To do that, we need to create conditions in our country and ensure that trains go at that speed. It's a very important aspect if we really want Belgrade to be the centre of services. Of course, this applies not only to rail traffic, but also to road traffic, internet, telecommunications, etc., there is no minister here. So Belgrade should be the leader of the Balkans and the southeast of Europe, but there should be conditions for it to be. Only by developing these big systems can we talk about entering Europe. I have a habit of saying -- we don't have to chase into Europe, we have to create conditions here for Europe to come to us, and it will only come through the realization of these big projects. Of course, I also wanted to speak critically about some of the things I've noticed in these seven years, but I've had the opportunity to talk to Mr. Minister often and verbally and to draw attention to some things that I think have to be said. I'm not going to talk about this today, precisely because I want to give the subject we're talking about and give the MPs a chance to say some more of their opinions. That's why I'll only talk for ten minutes, and I'll leave the other ten to go. What's also important, and on the track you can't see right now, it's the realization of knots. The knots are Belgrade-Novi Sad-Nish-Dimitrovgrad and Subotica. The Belgrade Railway Node, and here I have to criticise the minister, seven years cannot be completed, and only 10% of the total value of the works is the total value of the works is a billion dinars. Of course, we started back in 1976, but it is an object that is very important for the high-speed rail, because the train through Belgrade must pass quickly and not waste time. Unfortunately, I think the minister gave in, handed over the authority of the city authorities, and the Prokopa project is waiting seven years to end. I'll just tell you one thing, and please, who doesn't trust me, I'm ready to talk to him alone. If 50 or 100m euros were invested in Prokop and finished Prokop, then the whole Belgrade knot would be finished, that beautiful Sava amphitheatre valley below the railway station, and that's the famous Europol project, they gave the name to Democrats, my friends, the DS gentlemen, young Shaper, etc., I didn't invent that name, and you of course, cut it right after October 5th, and that Europol is the second developmental chance of this country, we don't have to explain it to anyone here. So, in a year and a half, Veljo, a Prokop could be completed and the Sava amphitheater could be released, foreign investors would be brought in, however you like, and one of Serbia's greatest development opportunities would be put in place after the railways and roads. That's my biggest criticism. It's also not much done in Novi Sad. Finally, I must say, I am not a supporter of the National Investment Plan, but I am a supporter of everything that is done. If the National Investment Plan was to be started somewhere, then it should have started on the New Sad Bridge, the Jell-O Bridge. Unfortunately, I don't know today, but maybe there's some data, that bridge is probably just in the papers today. Thank you very much. I've been using the other ten minutes at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8042	Thank you. I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of Members of Parliament have submitted all parliamentary groups. Before I give the word first in a row, it is MP Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8043	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am advocating the violation of the provisions of Article 27, Mr. President of the Assembly, which says that the President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the session of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, the other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. Now I'm asking you to get your time back. Mr. Dulic, you are not acting in accordance with the powers laid down in Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure. You are the generator of this highest representative home's crisis. You are strikingly untalented for the work you do and you are extremely irresponsible. I think, Mr. President, it's time to try your resignation. That would be best for the MPs and for the citizens of Serbia. Why? Because you flagrantly violate the Constitution, or the provisions of the Constitutional Law, by putting on the agenda what is not a priority and which is not foreseen by the deadlines set out in the Constitutional Law and ignoring what is the obligation under the Constitutional Law. Mr. President, you were completely arrogant and unauthorized, past the rules of the Rules of Procedure, interrupted yesterday by a session of the Assembly without having any reason to do so. No messenger was told a warning, no messenger was far away, there was no breach of order, and then you appeared from some point of view and broke up the session of the congregation. Mr. President, I know the reason yesterday's session was not a controversy between MPs. You had a controversy all day yesterday morning that had nothing to do with the agenda, so you didn't interrupt the session. You've been distracted by something else. It did not bother you with the topic on the agenda, nor Minister Ilic, nor Polemic, but you received a warrant from the top of your party to interrupt the session. Because how will you explain to your voters that you are in favour of something that you have declared, publicly, transparently always opposed, and Mr. Minister, and the director of public enterprises from his portfolio, both due to earlier times and due to the present time. Mr. Dulic, there was no controversy here about trains and high-speed railways, but about morality and immorality, about honor and shame, about honesty and dishonesty. I'm finishing up. Let me just tell you something. On April 2nd, this year, the French railway and TGV reached the highest speed ever, 574.8km per hour, on the Paris-Strasbur route. Mr. Dulic, since you're not doing well, I suggest you take the train to Subotica slowly, just to get to your favorite 48-hour wedding show.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8044	Thank you for this witty remark, Mr. Batic, without any intention of me entering the controversy with you, because you don't deserve the controversy. I just want to say that yesterday I interrupted the session for the reason that the Assembly has turned into a show that you love, such as "Klopka" or "The Castle", and this is not allowed because this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this pay phone has to talk about things that are on the agenda and it has to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure when it really exists. When you tell me a parliament in the world where it is possible to get out of the door, to raise the paper and get as many times as possible to answer the word how many times you want it, and to talk about whatever you want, then I'll tell you that it's true that this Parliament is not being run well. I'm just trying to maintain this House's dignity to the extent possible, and yesterday afternoon's discussion wasn't something to go into the prologue of this Parliament's dignity and that's the only reason I interrupted it. You'll get word from the Rules of Procedure all in a row. First came the Members of the People's Parliament of the Free Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8045	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers, I will not be as funny as Mr. Dulic, quote Article 98 of this Rules of Procedure - President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the meeting of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured; item 2. - The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion; the President of the National Assembly shall interrupt the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. You are not the National Assembly, Mr. Dulic, neither of these three attitudes were respected yesterday. You're behaving arrogantly, you came here for 10 minutes, interrupted the session with an explanation that, I'm going to quote yesterday's stenogram, please stop me from quoting the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Dulic came in for two minutes and said, "Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since we spent the entire afternoon on a statement by the Rules of Procedure and that the LDP parliamentary group, which otherwise has 19 minutes (which is not true), reported by the Rules of Procedure 30 times, and that New Serbia then responded by the same number. I think it's been the most irresponsible behavior of the MPs since we started working, and that doesn't make any sense. "That's why you're interrupting the debate. Mr. Dulic, you know what's irresponsible? It is irresponsible when you do not respect Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and you're talking about an MP's group being the most irresponsible, and you're not saying that Minister Ilic, who broke the Rules of Procedure in that way, I know he wasn't an MP, which he insulted, threw insults at the MPs and you didn't find it appropriate to say it at all. What caused the LDP reaction? After a break from the then chairman, Mr Albianic, who also broke up in an unauthorized manner, violating the Rules of Procedure, a session at 13.40 p.m., without any explanation, and only because Minister Ilic was not there, I reported to the Rules of Procedure to advertise an infringement of Article 98. Afterwards, the head of the LDP parliamentary group called and spoke within 20 minutes about the topic. Afterwards, Minister Ilic reported at 3:10 p.m., who again dropped fire on LDP lawmakers. So he did not dispute our allegations and our criticism of his work, but he began speaking to the MPs himself again. That's what we had to react to and protect, first of all, ourselves as a parliamentary group, as well as citizens who gave us trust. So you have two arches again. You are very two-faced, you are criticising the smallest parliamentary group by number, and that is why you suffered injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which were reported by the MPs of the SRS, and you have not spoken in a single word. Why? Because you're out of this assembly room. So it's not correct. It is enough that there is one party in this House, Mr. Dulic, who is silent about everything. You can't expect LDP to shut up. We have the right to say what we think, we have the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, because it is in one section that speaks of the rights of MPs. Don't say we're being irresponsible anymore, because that's not true. Unlike you, we are acting responsibly and we want to draw citizens' attention to all the issues that are important, and yesterday we talked all the time about a subject that was important, namely the character and work of Mr Ilic, who presented the bill here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8046	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Andric called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8047	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeared unplanned on the points of Articles 101 and 104. The first is Article 101, part of which says that the MP misread someone's exposure. Article 104: "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Mr. Dulic, you insulted us last night, and today you repeated that same kind of insult. I can understand that some of you think they're funny or not, but I can't understand your point of view about how you won't argue with the MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, which is still in force, you are required to respond to the remark that has been sent to you. This isn't about any of your wishes or your relationship to someone's wit. So, for what we're reporting, we have a good reason, Mr. Dulic. You came in last night, you weren't in the O.R. all day, and you took the right to comment on what was going on in the O.R. Is one opposition group responsible for holding the session or chairing the session? If we were already able to use the Rules of Procedure and report to the Rules of Procedure, then why did you transfer it to us at night when you returned? You should have criticised whoever chaired the assembly at that time. More than 10 injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which we reported, were the request to interrupt the session and to schedule consultations, firstly, because the minister - the promoter was not present in the O.R., and secondly, the consultations we asked for reasons to refer the objections we have to this law to you, with the heads of Parliament. So, there was no fight here yesterday. We have warned of a problem we will talk about today, but you have no right to insult us. That's what we're really up against.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8048	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Micic's MP came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the imperial norm, if that means anything to you, Mr. Dulic, in any way, contained in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and according to Article 113, the members of the Government also have the responsibility. Mr. President, you are, unfortunately, the progeny of breaking the Rules of Procedure in this assembly. Not only do you not have the strength and will to prevent other MPs from breaking, but you are constantly violating it. For example, yesterday in the morning part of the SRS, up to half two advertised the Rules of Procedure and used the business opportunity to show their dissatisfaction with the City Assembly sessions. No one prevented them, yet the Assembly met them, and the Committee on Local Self-Government was scheduled, so they could discuss it. In the afternoon part of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr President, she used not only the power and the right of Article 226, under which MPs have not only the right but also the obligation to ask and request notices to be present, and we only asked for the minister to present a programme and plan on how he intends to spend the funds that he will receive under the adopted conventions. We expressed our suspicion that it would be in line with the standard of good host, because Mr. Velija Ilic has repeatedly shown that it is not. Just because the DS gave up believing Mr. Ilic is not a good minister doesn't mean that LDP will change his mind. It's just about consistency and principle. Mr. President, DS is the most concerned, the priority of all priorities is presidential elections. I hope that, because you do not respect the Constitution or the law, even if you respect it in this norm, or respect international law, since devising an international warrant is nothing more than a violation of international law, I have already spoken of the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. President, as far as the presidential election is concerned, I'm just going to say: the radicals were never more free in one assembly than during your presidency. You protected one from the MPs, which is not your duty, a member of the government, or a minister who has already announced his candidacy for the president of the Republic, and then the devil will be guilty if Boris Tadic loses the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8050	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milena Stankovic and then MP Vladan Batic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Dulic, reporting in accordance with Article 225. You ended the session yesterday in words: "The LDP Group, which is otherwise 19 minutes old, reported 30 times by the Rules of Procedure, and that, of course (with an emphasis on course), New Serbia responded with the same number. I think it's the most irresponsible behavior of the MPs since we started working and it doesn't make sense." Then you interrupted the session. Mr. Dulic, I'm sorry to turn my back on you, but this is my address, in fact, for you. The LDP's behaviour yesterday was, in fact, an example of responsible politicians' behaviour, who clearly say "no" to all retrograde forces in Serbia. I know that the DS is trying to present to Serbia that retrograde forces are the only forces of the 1990s, meaning the SRS and the SPS, and we say that this list of retrograde forces in Serbia is not ending, but it is very important to make it clear that the system of values of the 1990s and policy of the 1990s is currently being seen even more naked and transparently by NS politicians and, which is very important to stress, the DSS. Everything is allowed in this House. You allow, for example, Mr. Vukic to speak to the Rules of Procedure for 10 minutes. The DS deputies will be silent when an SRS MP comes out for a pay phone and insults the head of the DS parliamentary group. The LDP is subject to some other rules, because when LDP is loud, you can see how quiet DS is and what all DS agrees to. What is very important is how far DS policy has been since DS policy in 2000. Mr. Dulic, your behavior is a typical reaction to a defensive, losing policy, which is unable to meet the demands of modern civil Serbia today. The existence of LDP in this Parliament just underlines the inability of the DS. The company pays a big price for irresponsible DS policy, and the DS will pay that price in the elections, which we hope will be soon, but we don't know that, because that too depends on the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8052	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8053	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, reacting to the adjudication of the Rules of Procedure, you have allowed yourself various comments, but you have not responded to what I have advertised, in violation of the provisions of Article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Mr. Dulic, I'm not interested in your impressions at all, and you, as president of the National Assembly, can't say whether anyone deserves or doesn't deserve an answer. You have to follow the Rules of Procedure. I'm telling you that you don't deserve to be President of Parliament because you're violating the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, the Rules of Procedure, the elemental ethics, everything that's written in the Rules of Procedure itself. I said you're intrudingly untalented for this job and it's nothing wrong, but you're extremely irresponsible. Why? Eight months, since you are the president of parliament, Serbia has no Constitutional Court. You promised and deceived both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia that it would come weeks ago on the agenda. You are the most responsible to take care of the Constitution and respect for the Constitution. You are required to chair the parliament, it is your first priority, basic, main business. You do it occasionally. Anything else you do can be occasional, and Parliament's presidency constantly. You are constantly violating the Rules of Procedure and you have no right to settle on either side. I'm asking you to respond to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure that I've advertised, not your impressions, they're really not interested in anyone today. I know this controversy is pretty painful for the party you represent, because it shows face and looks, because it shows duality. How to explain to the citizens and voters that many months ago, if you want a multi-annual controversy and a continuing challenge to Velimir Ilic and his work, to this level that you have now reached, to make a living in power and to God of some of the higher interests, and these higher interests are chairs and money, now you have to kiss in the mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8054	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Nada Kolundji, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8055	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you are already giving lessons about the Rules of Procedure, about what the norm means, then it wouldn't be bad to go, first of all, from what this Rules of Procedure allows and what not. So a member of the 100th unequivocally says - to a MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly, gives the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. The breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be a member of the 225 and 226, to which you insist. Based on that, you couldn't get a word in front of the others. You could get a word for it as a parliamentary question, maybe eventually, if we can figure it out. So, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the right to advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure is the need not to violate the democratic principle that must apply. What you're doing is a breach of procedure, and based on that, you wouldn't be able to answer for a word. What's quite obvious here right now is that for some election campaigns, they've started to deal exclusively with election campaigns. It is clear that the LDP is focusing its attacks on the DS election campaign. What I must say is that the DS, both in opposition and in power, will demand the public work of all state institutions and the public of the work of all public services. As we insisted, while we were in opposition, so even when we entered power, we insisted that it be announced to the public that a fully available concession agreement be made available. The fact that we have criticised some of the ministers with whom we are now in the government does not mean that we will be lenient towards phenomena, although by accepting political reality we understand that the issue of Serbia's interest is the issue of forming and survival of this government. However someone thinks it's a cover-up for some other reasons, it's quite clear that DS has taken responsibility, unlike others who can easily stand by and deny everything that is being done right now. So we will continue to insist on this and what is a special reason why the DS supports these documents is the fact that it is Serbia's interest, that the interest of Serbia is that the railways, which are now in a state that is really not for a modern country, are in a better condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8056	The word is by MP Vladan Vucevic, as an authorised representative of the DSS-NS parliamentary club. You'll get the word of the Rules of Procedure, first the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8057	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, unlike these discussions that were held during yesterday and this beginning of today's session, a much different discussion was held on the Committee on Transport and Relations and in a completely different tone. Of course, a constructive discussion has been conducted, where members of the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted today's laws to be decided by the absolute majority of those present. Not only did they adopt today's laws, but they discussed in a commendable tone the work of the Railways and Mr. Director Sarancic, the Master of Economic Sciences. In a very professional discussion of people who are also competent to question rail traffic, it has been said that the railway industry has made a major turn of best for the past three years, that a massive company, which had 50 daughters, has started restructuring the company, that major progress has been made and that it is more modern today than it was before. Of course, it has been heard that this should be even better and that it is not enough for the modern world, for modern Europe, and, if we want to be an integral part of the world, an integral part of modern Europe, we must do much more precisely on this Corridor 10, which, at the very end of the line, represents the backbone of an economy, and of course it requires a modern world, i.e. Modern Europe. What was realized then is what are really objective problems of the railway today? Aside from a massive system, which had 50 daughters, it was found and said that there was a bad infrastructure. An infrastructure that does not allow trains to go more than 44km in many parts of the railway across Serbia. It has also been said that many parts of the track are closed because they are not for use. Old locomotives, some could be in this modern world and museum exhibits, but unfortunately because of the economic situation in which Serbia is in Serbia, they are still a significant part of these railways' tow systems, but of course expensive for remont, for maintenance, very bulky because they have enormously high consumption. What is particularly highlighted as a major problem, it is a single-circuit system in Serbia, so I would kind of remind Mr Batic, who was driving on the fast tracks of Europe and told him - yes, he was driving, but with two-wheel tracks, not one-wheel tracks. There is one of the major problems with crossing trains, waiting, stopping and looking for and certainly finding the big problem of the Serbian railway, which is the delay. These are all the problems that have passed, and this government has inherited. What is important is to say, there is almost no political structure here, there is no political party, there is no leader who has not had a chance in the past decade and a chance to integrate his knowledge and to correct the issue and the state of Serbian railways. All of them have tried in some way, but they may have done something, but today the question of where human morality is raised for individuals, who have had the chance to do something and do nothing, and have done nothing, to criticise people who have done something, did and helped the Serbian railway to be more operational today, and to be less massive than it was, and to be part of which will be very quickly incorporated into the development of Serbia's economic system. So much for some people who could and couldn't. Why don't they give themselves an answer? There have been talk here about about about some ten sets that have been purchased and new Serbia has been criticised. You have the right and the right of individuals to criticise. Nothing is impossible to criticize. But it needs to be a little bit and objective. Ten sets are paid as much as one new set. And why did we take ten sets? Because those who were before us didn't buy new furniture, they left us old furniture, museum exhibits. With museum exhibits you can drive around Serbia, no one will cause you any trouble, but you can't go to Europe. Nor does Europe, with modern furniture, want to come to such spring crossings, where those trains, where Mr Batic was driving at a speed of 160 km, will drive at 44. Therefore, Europe wants to twist Serbia as a common system of modern railways, modern railways, and that is what Europe is asking of us, and the world. We said we wanted to be an integral part of economically developed Europe, to be economically developed Serbia. We are geographically in Europe, but we are not an integral part of an economically developed Europe, and we have to be, and Europe wants to help us. And we're drilling here, we're fighting in the chest, we want that help in every way that we can refuse. Europe wants to finance some projects in Serbia, wants to finance projects of which it has an interest, the interest of the modern world, to finance Serbia's railways, because it will also benefit. There are projects Europe is not interested in, so these projects will, of course, be implemented by the National Investment Plan, but since there is not enough money in that plan and programme as much as Serbia needs, we must also use favourable loans, the loans Europe offers us. That's why we have these laws that we need to adopt today. Cooperation with the world is a strategy of the past government. It continues in continuity. Cooperation with the world is a strategy and these governments, and that's something that's perfectly normal. We are obliged as people, politicians who from this pay phone determine Serbia's future, to work with the world and, of course, make a better future than we had in the past. There are people, there must be them everywhere in Serbia, there are among the MPs, who continue to run that policy -- the worse it gets -- so they count, if it's worse for Serbia, they're better for them. It's one reverse policy and the situation of such a policy we've had a chance to see in the past, and we've been through so badly with such a policy. Therefore, the future defuses the past, denys the present, which can be negative, and our task is to make this country a better place for common forces, so that tomorrow our generations, our children would not laugh and criticize what we did to live outside Europe, and they could be an integral part of the world. Railway traffic is very important for the development of the economy. Serbia is in major economic reforms and, of course, one of the development potentials of the economy is such large-scale projects, as some previous speakers have said, which just make the unemployed Serbia work. I know there are people who think we can live alone, that we don't need the world, that we don't need help and that we have so many unemployed people that our trains can push. There are those, but unfortunately we can't push those trains, we need to follow modern trends and we need to introduce Serbia to be a modern-developed country and trains driving around in Europe are also driving around Serbia. In the end, I'm going to say something that I need here today to decide. Because of the infrastructure it is, we need to adopt here today the bill, where the international community gives us 60m euros for the development and restoration of railway infrastructure. Now those who are against having better railways, they will also plead at the vote, but those who are for the recovery of road infrastructure, they will vote positively. Also, the international community is investing 80 million to rebuild the priority railways, electrification of railways on corridor 10, so that I do not now list Belgrade - the Croatian border and so on. I guess the MPs read all that. This is something that is inevitable to be done and done in the near future. It would be best if Serbia had enough money to do this with its own resources, but unfortunately we don't have, we can't, we have to use favourable loans and we have to do what the world requires of us, and the rich and younger generations. As for the law confirming the Agreement on the establishment of a high performance railway network in Southeast Europe, I think Mr. Mrkonjic has said enough. Serbia must have railways on which trains will rotate at a speed of 100 and drive at 130, 160, and perhaps sometimes in the future 220 km. What do I want to say? I just want to mention that many Southeast European countries have signed this agreement, so it says, for the Republic of Albania, for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Turkey, Moldova. If we are the smartest of all these countries, then we will not accept this, we need neither Europe nor the world, we are enough ourselves. I think we'll accept, because of course we can't solve the problems alone, and we can't live without the environment ourselves. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I do not owe much, the draft law confirming the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the Convention on International Railway Transport of COTIF from 9 May 1980, the 1999 Protocol, where Yugoslavia was one of the founders. What's this really about, and what's this all about? This is a common law, a document of many countries, which regulates the transport of goods, passengers, cross-border crossings, transport of dangerous substances, passenger rights, transport of luggage, jurisdiction of courts, means simply that rail transport must take place among these countries. This is not only adopted by the Serbian parliament, we should not vote alone, so I would like to read again which countries are signatories of this document and whose governments have adopted this document. In order for Serbian citizens to see, know and be able to assess those critics, they are not only criticising this document, criticising all these countries, and that will end it. For the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, for the Federal Republic of Germany, for the Republic of Austria, for the Kingdom of Belgium, for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the Republic of Bulgaria, for the Republic of Croatia, for the Kingdom of Denmark, the Kingdom of Spain, for Finland, the Republic of France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, for Greece, for the Republic of Hungary, for Iraq, for the Islamic Republic of Iran, for the Republic of Ireland, for the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Lebanon, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Republic of Lithuania, the Duke of Luxembourg, for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Kingdom of Morocco, Monaco, Norway, Norway, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Romania, the Republic of Slovakia, Slovenia, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Swiss Confederation, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Turkey. You see, all these countries are the signatories of this. If anyone thinks we should be the ones who are the smartest, and we should say no, that's his problem. I'm sure most in this parliament and Serbian citizens don't think so. Those who feel that this should not be adopted, and I think there are parties there, that I am not giving them cream, will report on their own, that they are reporting according to the Rules of Procedure, I see that they are already smiling, it is one cynicism, already known, against the citizens of Serbia, against the Republic of Serbia, against their voters, against the future, and of course, I think that they are in a difficult minority and that the Serbian parliament will adopt all of this, and all of this will make it possible for Serbia to improve and develop tomorrow. That is why New Serbia, which sees one new Serbia tomorrow, a modern Serbia that will be an integral part of this European community, will be happy to vote for these laws for Serbia's improvement tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8058	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Natasa Micic came forward. I would like to inform the MPs that he is an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary club, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8059	Mr. President, you've broken the Rules of Procedure again. In fact, you have violated the Rules of Procedure in Article 100(3), which is why the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give the MP, who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, an answer. You didn't give me any answers, any answers. So you've broken the Rules of Procedure again and, unfortunately, I must say, you're the only one who doesn't break it when you're away, Mr. President. Instead, she tried to give me an answer to the president of the DS Parliament Club, Mrs. Hope Kolundji. Namely, my question was - where do you draw the authority to deny MPs the right and obligations laid down in Article 226 and to Chapter XVI concerning the rights and duties of MPs. So Article 221 says - the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. Article 226, Mrs. Nado, does not apply to parliamentary matters. The parliamentary question has been regulated by Article 198. They're being set up at the end of the session. Article 226 reads as follows: "The MP has the right to ask for information and explanations, both from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on the issues raised by the rights and duties of these officials from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs in order to fulfil the function of the MP. 'So, that's the authority of the MP. This authority can only be used by MPs when the minister is present. We didn't speak beyond the agenda theme, for example. about the Belgrade City Assembly. We were talking about the railroad, and we asked the minister to explain to us how he intends to spend the funds on the agenda of the conventions. So the parliamentary question has nothing to do with this authority. Second, it is the right and obligation of the MPs of the people. In our case, in our fragile democracy, it's the right of opposition. In developed countries and the parliamentary majority control the government, and we will have it when our railway goes 160 km/h, and now 44. Until then, gentlemen, we have the right and authority, and let the President of the Assembly give me a provision to deny us that right, obligation and authority. Since I have little time left, we are not doing this for the purpose of party promotion, we are not even doing it for our voters, we are doing it for all voters, who voted in favour of any parliamentary group, and in the first place, Mrs Hope, because of voters who voted for the Democratic Party, because I do not believe they have confidence in Minister Veli Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8060	The word has a Mr. Minister and then a National MP, Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8061	Mr. President, gentlemen and ladies MPs, I would like to answer this question of a People's MP, which has been passed many times and I had no intention of commenting on anything, because I have seen what this is all about, because the discussions, apart from Mr. Mrkonjic and the individual MPs who discussed the problem on the agenda, are completely marketing. That's why I didn't think anything special had to be answered. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the ministry and Serbian railways have applied for a loan with certain projects. You know, there's been a problem, there's been a failed railway infrastructure for years, that some of the railways are in a state of distress, they've crushed the tracks completely, and the railways are in a state of complete rehabilitation. It takes 4,000 miles to rehabilitate. We did one piece. We do it every year, and we can't even perform it all at once. The European banks supported our project and formed their team. That team of theirs was on the tender committee. An international tender has been launched. If we approve this now, then there is an international tender, performers in the international tender appear, and the European Bank controls the implementation of this programme and projects exactly according to the items given in the project. That's what we've been doing so far. So let's not manipulate the public. Here, Serbian railways, with their supervision and professional personnel, are part of a team that will control the whole process. It is known and defined what to do on the Belgrade-Shid railway, i.e. Golubinci-Batajnica, what to do on the Nis-Dimitrovgrad route. You know exactly the items that have been defined. I fully agree with some MPs, especially Mrkonjic, who has been very professionally discussing this problem. It's true that there's a problem, I repeat, we have rails that allow 10 km of speed. Why? It's all rotten. It can't change. The 4,000 stripes need to be changed in Serbia. That costs 10 billion euros, about. So Serbia doesn't have the means. We're going in phase and doing what's most needed in the country and where they're currently the biggest traffic frequencies. The strategy has been done, the government has supported, the strategy has been adopted in its own time and we need to realise it until the end. Europe wants to help and it stands. It's true, too, that there are railways that are in desperate condition, which are supposed to be closed, and in the intervention of local authorities, we let them function at low speeds. We'd like to have fast tracks. Where it's reconstructed, the speeds are 120 to 130 km, and it's standing, and where it's not reconstructed, we can't let trains go into the sun, to be some tragedies, etc. The tunnels must be reconstructed. You know that the Chargan tunnel recently collapsed on its own. They're reconstructing. That costs seven million euros. So, the state-owned infrastructure, the sanctions, the 20 years there was no investment, we couldn't because of sanctions to get to international loans, and now we're on our way and we're on our way. Gentlemen, let me cut this short. When public enterprises were shared in the previous government, no one wanted to take the railways. At the end when they were left of all the railway companies, then they said, "Here's some resolution minister to take." And I took and I'm doing everything I can. That's where all the frames stayed that were professional and good. There are socialists there, and radicals, and Democrats, and they all work well, they're one team and they do, but it takes a lot of money. There's no money. You know how much a locomotive costs, one composition, one car, how much it costs. They're all one team and it's good, it's compact and they get along great. There's no one from the LDP. I'm very sorry they don't have anyone who understands that. Here, maybe that dramatist will write some drama, I can see he's gone today, about the railways, about those trips, because he knows everything. It's the only party that doesn't have its own representatives. They all have, and many are directors, and they're very professional, and they do their job well, but it takes a lot of money for the railroad. Believe me, one km of reconstruction of the railway is 1-3m euros. So, that's nice, but 4,000 kilometers. Yesterday someone said it was 2,400 spring crossings. True, but a railway crossing costs 120,000 euros to be installed. We installed about 10-12 last year. If there's money, let's put on 100 and 200, and there's no problem, but there's no, gentlemen, money. Now that we've talked about the NIP, they say there's no money for the railways. What, if there is, if it stands out, of course we'll mount it. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: Let not be given for Karadzic and Mladic.) You should take it for the railroad. I'm sorry, I didn't take part in it, and I don't know, but believe me, the railroad was always on the sidelines and the railroadmen worked with small salaries and under the most difficult conditions, and they were just very correct because they love their railways. We are pleased that there are now 26,000 people there and that the restructuring of public enterprises has been the most successful on the railway. The poorest is the company, but those who were there, were the most correct people, accepted to leave, to get those severances as they were and were very correct. So let's speed up this process. Let's not go on the railroad, which we're all supposed to help right now, pick up some petty political points, chase ourselves now, spit on each other, swear, insult, and so forth. Don't think, on the railroad, gentlemen, wages are made from subsidies from the state. There was nothing to steal, and don't just do it all - thieves, thieves. Don't always have a crisis there, believe me, the railroad is the only company I came for when the EPS shut down the power. Imagine, at the moment when the cars and trains were on the open tracks in full swing - someone shut off the power and everything stopped at the moment, which shouldn't have happened. They said you don't have any money, no goodbyes. The railway is able to meet all obligations, and electricity, oil and fuel, and NIS, and the EPS is the most valuable payer of public enterprises, and it is the poorest. That's all the poor railroadmen who got low wages and didn't get flats. It is true that the railway has not 17%, but 11% of the land, but it is all in the Property Directorate, and the Railway of Serbia is a user of a certain portion of the property -- nothing can alienate, nothing can sell, nothing can replace, but everything must go through the State Property Directorate. I welcome you once again, I thank you for today's very constructive discussion, which was of some MPs, very professionally, and I hope this parliament will help speed up the process of restructuring Serbian railways, and we will do so in the Ministry and Government. If we do something wrong, feel free to criticize, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8062	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. It seems to me that you're breaking up with us, we're just starting a discussion, right from the first speaker. I hope you'll be here listening to all the speakers. The People's Messenger Milorad Belic has the word, and let the Messenger Ivan Andric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8063	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers, a set of laws that we are discussing today, regarding the promotion of the railway network and rail traffic, deserves special attention for several reasons. First of all, because of the need to include our railway in international rail transport of passengers and goods, then because of the need to invest in the modernisation and reconstruction of our railways, which has, of course, been very neglected in recent years, but also because of unfounded attacks that are periodically renewed and water and against the management of New Serbia, and against the resolution ministry. Let's take the turn. The Convention on International Railways is a basic convention that regulates international rail transport of passengers and goods between the Member States of the organisation, which my esteemed colleague Dr Vukevic spoke of. With this convention, Serbia would be isolated, as it was from 1992 to 2001. International rail transport would remain legally unregulated, without the possibility of direct dispatch of passengers and goods. What negative consequences would be for Serbia's railways and the entire Serbian economy are impossible to see, let alone calculate. So that's the convention. As regards the Agreement establishing a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe, this refers to connecting the railways of the capitals of this part of Europe, facilitating procedures at border crossings, improving rail infrastructure, coordinating activities on projects that are under way or planned, increasing safety in rail transport, etc. In other words, there is a legal framework for coordinating all these activities. What caused perhaps the greatest attention and discussion, which are the proposals of the law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, i.e. the European Bank for Development on the 80m-euro loan and the 60m-euro loan. First of all, as regards the European Investment Bank and these 80m euros, the finance minister also spoke about what will be intended for, and it is very wrong to tell citizens from this booth, we MPs, in the light of the proposal for these laws, that it is all detailed and taxing, for which the money will be spent. Simply, and for the sake of time and for the sake of perhaps unnecessary waste and time and attention, I don't want to read it to you now, but for the sake of the citizens, I'm just going to remind myself of what 80m euros will be used for. For the restoration of priority railways on corridor 10 and the acquisition of new vehicles and equipment. Then, he says, all the tax-restruction, modernization of the cell tower, stationing of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgarian border, Mr. Dejan Rajčić spoke about it yesterday; reconstruction and modernisation of the Gilje-Cuprija-Paracin railway line Belgrade-Nish; reconstruction and modernisation of the Batajnica-Golubinci section of the Belgrade-Shid-Croatian border; and the purchase of new freight wagons; and the acquisition and installation of the support stream for the processing of points etc. I really don't understand the need for someone to say, we're afraid of what that money will be spent on. Furthermore, as regards the second bill to confirm this guarantee agreement between Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, amounting to 60m euros, the funds will be spent to purchase around 1,100 new freight wagons. And we heard yesterday from the minister and because of the fact that a vacuum existed in the work of this Parliament, that a lot of time has been lost and that maybe now you can't get all 1,100 cars, but from this material about work and the financial and commercial effects of the railway you'll see what makes it very important and how the railways are trying to bridge that problem. So I would stay here for a while and inform the public and MPs about certain concrete indicators in the railway business. Yesterday we stopped somewhere around the number of passengers transported, etc., revenues from the transport of goods, but it's very important to say that the total transport revenues in 2001 and, of course, we have to compare to that, amounted to about 4 billion, and in 2006, over 9 billion. What's the big deal? In 2003, only twom euros were paid to the Serbian Railways' foreign exchange account, while the figure was 50m euros in 2006. Here's one of the answers to the question of how the railroad is coping, so first of all, from internal reserves and resources to provide the necessary resources. Furthermore, the debt has been reduced by a total of 120m euros from its own incomes, which has not really been the case throughout the previous period. Labour productivity has been significantly increased, about 2, 3 times higher than in 2001, and we have heard that significant shifts have been made to restructure the entire railway network, as well as to reduce the number of employees on a different basis. Furthermore, what is very important is what I am about to tell you now, and it concerns the number of tow vehicles and how the railway is trying to solve the problem it inherited from 2001, when both European partners and lenders have asked to withdraw more than 540, if I remember correctly, a 543km rail to be put out of service. On average, in 2003, 63 locomotives or furniture worked, and in 2006 average daily traffic of 75 electrolocomotives; in 2007, it has been available daily with optimal 95 electrolocots, which is 50.8% more than in 2003, and most in the last 15 years. So, as the distinguished fellow economists here often talk, we're talking about numbers, and they're actually the best argument. A very important thing, in 2003 2,700 freight wagons were sold, and none of them were invested in the operation of the existing and reconstruction of the railway network. So 2,700 cars have been sold and then they're rising, of course, campaigns and attacks, unfounded, which is why they're getting electricity, and we want to go to Europe and we want to bridge that problem of 40 or 50 km, etc. At this point, the Railways Serbia is currently implementing the tender for the purchase of about 1,100 locomotives, or freight wagons, which I was talking about. The important thing is that domestic repairers will fix about 600 cargo cars. In the last year alone, about 500 freight wagons were re-involved. Again, no one can challenge the efforts and results they have achieved. As far as these subsidies are concerned, Mr. Secretary just said something about subsidies. No single state railway in Europe is without subsidies, from Greece, the Czech Republic, England and these most developed countries. However, it must be noted that the largest subsidies shared by railways in 2003 -- 10.2 billion dinars, which is indeed much, much more than subsidies planned for the Serbian Railways this year. In the end, only a few other things that I hope will help and dissuad those most birds and notable ones, which is why they should support this set of laws, which is that the Serbian Railways are recording visible results and significant progress in comparison with 2004-2007. The only response to attacks coming from this or that political party or from this or that politician can only be interpreted by political marketing and the desire to lower these results, but also by reducing the rating of the party, because it is an irrefutable fact that the resolution minister and director of the railways are members of New Serbia. I don't see any other reason or motive if these numbers deny us. It is also important to know if it is investing in the development and modernisation of Serbia's railways, that this will affect nearly 2,000 domestic companies, or several hundred thousand workers working in these companies. Yesterday you heard from Mr. Ilic that it is a whole system and that it is a very important thing for the functioning of the entire Serbian economy. We cannot behave quite autistically to seek modernisation on the one hand and to seek inclusion in the European Union, faster railways, to seek European integration, and on the other hand we will not invest anything and act as we did by 2004. This call to support these proposals of the law is indeed valid and I said so myself, it seems to me yesterday, during the first address, and the position and opposition, because it primarily concerns Serbia's future. Finally, allow me, as I come from western Serbia, or Valjev, to say just a few sentences about the possible realization of the Valjevo-Loznica railway project, which is one of the key investments that citizens of western Serbia expect. I watched recent interviews and polls with citizens of Krupanj, Osijek and Loznica. Of course, for Valjevo, believe me, there are also my colleagues who come from Valjev, what will raise western Serbia is the realization of this Horgos-Požega project. That is why we were really concerned about all this happening around concessionaires and concessions, and we realized that it was really some kitchen that had nothing to do with either the concessionary or the real interests of the citizens of Serbia, but that the kitchen was somewhere else and that there were different interests. So, both Horgos-Pozega and Valjevo-Loznica, the realisation of this railway, I think the main investments that citizens of western Serbia expect from this government and I believe they will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8064	Thank you very much. The word has been issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary club, and may MP Ivan Andric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8065	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, by turning the Serbian government into a feud called the ministries, you've put us in a position where only schizophrenic people can think, talk about laws, decide how to vote. We have now heard criticism from one New Serbia MP at the expense of those who criticise the law and he says, you are criticising it only because Minister Velimir Ilic has proposed the law. At the same time, he only comes out for a pay phone to praise the law when his minister proposes the law. What's the difference? First, the railway was always under the care of the state and in its discussions, attacks on the previous regime, you never said that he didn't care as much as he could. The railroad is a source and trouble, but also a profit. Troubles are clear. You now want to drive locomotives 100 miles an hour by 2020, and from the moment this agreement was signed, it's been a year and maybe four or five months and nothing's been done yet. That's how the years go by. We can't get there, God forbid, but one budget would be enough per year to get the railroads in line. Why speak against this? Just for the minister's sake. Otherwise, ratifications, cheap credit agreements, adapting our country to everything that means the world, I'm not deliberately saying Europe, but the world, can't come across any great condemnation. But you here, these two laws, these two points of the agenda, represent as a monument to Velimir Ilic and urge other MPs to tell you about Velimir Ilic what they think. And you turned the debate into a debate whether Velimir Ilic could be a minister or not. By how much he can work, he can be a minister. By the way he lives and acts, he can't be a minister. And here's the story, you're going to praise him for his work, and we're going to attack him as he lives and what an impression he makes in public. And we're turning the Assembly into a story about individuals. For you, the government is a set of individuals to be praised or attacked, who spend state money as their own. Mr. Velimir Ilic in his ministry, defiled for what Gilas took from him, spent money as his own. He told us yesterday, I made so many miles of roads, and you all keep quiet. No one did. That's what Serbia says. Maybe somebody else would make a hospital, maybe somebody else would do something else with that money. The ministry got so much money, it needs to be deployed properly, and the minister's credit is in it. Why do you go to the villages and talk, they'll make you a good path, they'll make you one. He'll make his own way, and it's up to him not to steal that money, he couldn't stop it, he couldn't be wasted, and he couldn't stop it. You found out about the toll collection affair. Don't let God start putting ramps on the rails, charging rails, how much criminals would steal money. How can it be that you don't feel at all called New Serbia, who made so many roads because your clerks stole charging tolls on those roads? From this pay phone, Minister Ilic said he was bringing in a general who would stop the thefts on the payment ramps. The general is now on the run, as he was told by the ministry, as he returned from Bosnia, that he was not coming to Serbia at all, extended to Montenegro, which hides him as his child's mother. Serbia is not asking him to be extradited, Vela will rebel, he will leave the government. That's how you treat this Serbia, that's how you treat the government, that's how you treat the budget, for which we barely make the money. You're arguing in the government how much the ministry will get, because it's the party's strength and you're just looking at how strong the party will be, how much money from the budget it's going to spend and whether television is going to follow it when it's invested in the state as its own private money. Or does a man feel good when there's a Minister Velimir Ilic on the rink there with cameras, and they tell him, "Here we no longer have this time, he's taken to the rink, and on the phone, in front of the camera, he calls and says, "Tomorrow morning the project, and the day after tomorrow the work begins." I've done a little of that construction for 15 years. It's been a year, not tonight's project, and tomorrow's work begins. But he can, he can do anything. The campaign in the King, Vela comes and says - you will get a trip from Drupa to Godica. There's a half-way done, he did it half-way; he came, he promised and did it. Serbia can't work like that, because it's his candidate. That's not how Serbia works. Velimir Ilic cannot promise which path will be done, which he will not. Kostunica can't promise what he'll do, what he won't do. He can't promise what he wants, what he won't. Are we a state or are we a set of parties in power? What's wrong with adjusting the railways, getting those European trains going, too? God forbid, they'd be scared when they got to our tracks. If any of their trains, I believe they're overloading trains, they're going to come to us at all. I don't know. I'm afraid when I see a train. Like in Kragujevac, have you ever seen a train from a car? That's what Kragujevac has. Stop the ramp, wait, wait, 10 or 15 minutes in Stanovo, pass one car, alone, it goes for itself. It's that Danish royal, once sung in our series, the day train to the King, they called it the Danish Royal Train. I know, it's much nicer to make roads, it's much nicer to get points for your party. It's hard to do that on the railroad, especially if you have some debts, so that railroad is actually used to beat up debts. And now you're praising us here what wasn't done on the railroad. You're talking about getting a car, so nice, some factory in Europe is gonna make those cars for us. Why can't we build those cars? Because you ruined the factory. The factory, which sold its annual production to Myanmar in advance, has not yet been able to charge for Myanmar, and may not be able to make cars for Serbia. All this is nice, you get credit, and the foreigners come in, they take that credit, they take the percent of the credit, so they figure out who's going to spend that loan, so they set you up, and who's going to produce the goods for you to spend that loan. We have nothing to use from that loan for our economy. We're going to get cars, which is what speed now, let's say, if we get this year, what speed do you order cars for, 160 kilometers or 45. It's a shame to order for 45, and then what do you need for 160, that's two or three times as expensive as that. And it's all so sudden. From day to day in this assembly, we listen to representatives of political parties, not representatives of the government, and it hurts a lot. That's why, Mr. Minister, this biting between you and the MPs, and that's why you managed to be provoked so much last night, to discover the negative side of your personality, which we point to from day to day. And the negative side of DOS, because it was really interesting to hear that you were drinking in Morovic, that you from DOS were drinking in Morovic. I could say another army member - do you remember that drunk we had when the military deadline expired? But should I tell someone who was president of Serbia - do you remember that drunk? There's no shame in what he's doing here anymore. Because that drunk was a sign of a celebration that was arrested by Slobodan Milosevic? You found a reason why you were drinking. You don't need a reason. You drink from day to day, the reason is drinking, and drinking doesn't need any reason. So Mr. Shami just asked me if we were going to vote for this. I ask him, and have you ever seen us vote for something like this in the SRJ Assembly? There are 126 of you, you're in charge, you're modernizing, you're correcting, you're voting. Vote for it. Don't expect our votes. We didn't even discuss it once. Sometimes we won't even discuss it and it depends again on the political party that proposes it. There are some parties here and some ministers you don't even know what to say. Yesterday I didn't even know what she said was a minister, I thought she was going to take notes, she said she was a minister. What are you going to tell her when she comes here to present some law? Post office, good for you. Well, at least you don't drink on Morovic. But there are ministers who are irritable, causing a completely different kind of discussion than this National Assembly. So, modernize, lift, build, that's what Greater Serbia does. New Serbia builds us a country, New Serbia makes us roads, New Serbia makes us railways, Veljo made the way, Veljo built a home, covered up when the wind, all of Veljo, came to Veljo everywhere. If we were in power, the government would work, the assembly would be law-making, it wouldn't be Peru, it wouldn't be Micah, it wouldn't be Laza, it'll be Veljo, it'll be Tom, it'll be Serbia. But you don't understand. We were in power, Minister, I agree, at the time you were running and hiding in the woods and monasteries so you wouldn't get caught by accident. We're repeating what I said, and Seselj and I knew where you were hiding, and we didn't tell anyone not to get you. Mr. Minister, you wouldn't be sitting here today. But that's not the basis of my discussion. And when we were in power, I'm not ashamed of any moment, not for a second, and neither is the party ashamed of it at all. You wouldn't be ashamed of yourself if you were cut off from your ministry, what needs to be done, and if you did. You don't need any pomp, or your MPs to talk about it. Serbia would know you did it. But you're like that cow that gives milk, so step on a dung leg, and spoil the milk.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8066	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MPs, Sulejman Spaho, then Vladan Vukicevic, and then, on the agenda, prepare the MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8067	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. On Thursday, I went out here and informed the public about the current situation in the New Market, that I wanted to welcome my holiday in peace and prosperity. I may have succeeded in some way, but it was used by Mr. Omerovic to compare me to one show on Fox with Sulejman Ugljanin. You know who Sulejman Ugljanin is, and Ljajic, and Mufti, I don't want to mention him, they declared themselves to be members of the SDA in the '90s, and in all ways at the time they were trying to break off, with their politics, Sandzak or Raska from Serbia. I am Spaho Sulejman, a Serb Muslim religion member of the SRS for 17 years, and I stand for a comprehensive Serbia, and I can say that 90% of you here, even the minister, stand for great Serbia. All of you who are patriots, except you can't say, you're up for it. Serbia should be citizens of all religion and nationality. I volunteered to tell you, as I declare myself a Serb-Muslim, and all where it stands Serbianly ahead of that I will accept it. Since this Belgrade line is a Serb Islamic community, I will accept it before the Sarajevo or Bosniak Islamic communities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8068	Thank you. Replica, MP Vladan Vukicevic, as an authorised representative of the DSS-NS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8069	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know if I should start from the beginning what Mr. Nikolic said, or the end. But from the end, if we were in power, the government would work. Of course the government is still working, except the government has its own resolute ministers. The government is building a program and strategy, and ministers are implementing it. But the government also worked when Mr Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS were in power. Of course, during that period, we inherited a country that was a high-risk country for investing foreign capital in this country, precisely because of crime, bribery, corruption and all that was happening. I'm not saying that that's what the ministers of the SRS did, I'm not even a consequent organ, and I don't know that, but that's what we inherited and how we were marked by the international community. We all said that somewhere in the election campaigns that we'd fight crime. And this past government has set out to resolve the crime issue in this country, it has had the courage to arrest its minister, and that is the size of a government, to arrest its minister, to arrest the travel mafia, but the road mob did not emerge in 2004, it was in the act 20 years ago. Now we have not explored that among these thieves there are more members of one party, the other, the third, the fourth. These are some people we inherited, and they had a system of theft and theft, which this ministry discovered, sanctioned and prosecuted. That's very important. What's important for Kragujevac to say, says Mr. Nikolic - waiting for the ramp and passing a car, going alone. It's true, it's often happening, and that's because that part of the relationship is inert for the railroad. What you can see is that it's a passenger car, and it's empty, too. Now you see, during the period when you were, when you were implementing your government program, there was a locomotive and 300 empty cars for marketing. But it was a move from Kragujevac to the King, back and forth, driving empty wagons, but it wasn't a commercial, it was a marketing ride. Finally, when wagons are purchased, wagons are not bought to drive 100 miles [ 160 km], wagons are bought for the needs of the development of Serbia's economy, for the transport of goods. So Serbia currently lacks these wagons so it can transport goods for Serbia's needs. I'm sure at this point they'll be driving at that speed that the railroads allow, where it's 40 kilometers - 40, where it's 120 - 120. That's why we want to adopt this set of laws, so they can drive 120 kilometers anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8070	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Meho Omerovic reported. Here you go. I hope your discussion will be in the direction of the end of the misunderstanding with Mr. Spah.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8071	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly surprised, but apparently these high-speed railways returned us on Thursday, October 11th, on the day that the gentleman who called earlier mentioned my name, Suleiman Spaho, addressed the MPs from this pay phone and said something. So, it was me personally, and hopefully you, too, who enjoyed the fact that Mr. Spaho was watching Fox TV, and that's good news. It's just that it's a good thing you're watching television, Mr. Spaho, it's an opportunity to inform yourself and probably increase your knowledge, and I look forward to it. Unfortunately, I don't have a chance to look at you, but what you said is your right. I do not dispute with anyone in this congregation, nor with you, that you may plead as you please. You are pleading as a Serb Muslim religion, it is your right and I cannot deny it to you. It is also very indicative that in a context where you tried to challenge the replica and succeeded, you put yourself on the side of one of the political parties' representatives, who directly intervened in what was happening within the Islamic community and that was the topic I was talking about, and not you. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8072	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Amjad Migati and then MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8073	Article 104. Mr. Meho, you've put a lot of false facts on Fox on that show. First, the spiritual seat of Islam is Mecca, the only and only one. Sarajevo cannot be the spiritual centre of Muslims in the former Yugoslavia. It is a process, with the secession of the former Yugoslavia, that every Islamic community has begun to have its own independence. Second, everywhere in the world is the center of every country's Islamic community. There's no example where the Islamic community's administrative centre is out of state. Thirdly, Reis-ul-ullem in Sarajevo, it is known that in the 1990s he was a politician, not head of religious communities, led a campaign now called "hate speech" against Serbia and Serbs. That's when I was doing professional journalism and I followed everything. It was sad to hear what he said about it. Since it is known throughout the world that the nation cannot be a religion, in Yugoslavia it was a strange example, where Muslims were turned into a nation. It's nowhere to be found. No nation can be one faith. It's absurd. I remind you that until 1974, Muslims in Yugoslavia have declared themselves mainly Serbs of Islamic religion, including Mr Izetbegovic. There are documents in the archive from his I.D. Therefore, let us not now allow the forces that want to break away from this Serbia to re-emerge through Islam. The Islamic community in Serbia should be unique, that is, but its centre must be Serbia, or Belgrade. And the spiritual center, it's common knowledge, in Muslims it's Mecca. So don't replace the thesis and don't be Muslims again to be victims of some international plans, the former ambassador of Germany has already notified what will happen, and to use them against Serbia, where they live and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8074	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of reporting to the Rules of Procedure, but the discussion of New Serbia MPs has, in a way, obliged me to do the truth, for the sake of citizens and MPs, to say some facts about how to collect tolls, or to steal on payment payments. Unfortunately, since the payment ramps were introduced, there's been a theft on the billing ramps. There are two types of thefts: individual thefts, involving individuals doing it on their own, and there's that other part that's organized by a group of people. The group of people existed in the former Roads Directorate, in the Toll Charge Department. In one part she was even associated with other state bodies. At the time of my time as a minister of traffic, we spent a lot of time tracking the theft on payment ramps because these thefts are causing huge damage to Serbia. No matter what the time, at the time of the sanctions, the traffic of the vehicle was quite small, and the thefts were also extremely pronounced. What we've managed to do is get some data that inside the Roads Directorate there's an organized group that's managed to get certain changes into the information system that would allow for the theft to take place. That is what the Ministry of Transport informed the Prime Minister and, it seems, on 11 February 1999, the then prime minister ordered the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice to conduct an investigation. Unfortunately, you know that on March 23rd, the bombing of Serbia began and all of this went away, which would say, in a way, ad act. Unfortunately, the theft didn't go ad act, she continued. It continued immediately after 2000. She's probably in the smaller part of it right now, but she's still stealing on the billing ramps. What's the problem at the time while Minister Ilic... (President: Mr Todorovic, since you are the only one in the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. )......................................................................................................... The problem is that the Ministry and Minister Ilic did not discover the theft on the payment ramps. The problem is that the organized group, while Minister Ilic was head of the ministry, was still stealing. The theft was discovered by the police. Only when she was discovered was the Ministry involved in its statements that she should go to the end, etc. And what's this about? It is about the people who were appointed here by the minister: brothers Nedeljkovic, Klopanovic, supervisor Grujic Spasovic, former general, Davidovic, pardon. They're similar. The problem is that at the time of the theft of the payment ramps was discovered, Milos Nedeljkovic, returning from Rovinj with the Director of the Roads Directorate, was informed that there was a discovery of the theft on the payment ramps, so he got out of the car, did not return to the country. So later the director of the Road Directorate gave him a vacation, so Grujica Spasovic went to Montenegro, Davidovic. Grujica Spasovic, that's Cija's major, so that's always the two data that draws me. And today, they're probably in Montenegro. One of the brothers, Nedeljkovic, committed suicide in prison. Those who are in prison today, among them, you know it well, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, there's one group who's willing to cooperate, they don't blame anyone else, they take the blame, they're provided, they and their families, so the investigation doesn't go any further. But explain how it is possible at that time that Milos Nedeljkovic, who has been leading and was the main actor in the theft on the payment ramps, has not even been charged against him. How is it possible that I can't speak for other people, but in my formational place, in the Toll Charge Directorate, they won't be called to account at all? How can you explain that they are the most responsible incasans? I'm done. This is a subject that is quite extensive, for which you should be well prepared and exited with data. How is it possible that, on a well-intentioned offer to provide information that would help to detect organised theft, the Ministry comes up with the accusation that it is a desire to politically discredit a political opponent in some way, etc. These data would allow, very quickly and very simply, to detect a complete system of theft on the billing ramps. (President: Mr. Todorovic... I'm done. All this data undoubtedly shows that they are going to the minister himself. I'm not going to say that the minister is involved, I won't, because I don't have any data, I can't say that, and he took the money to the minister, but I know some concerts were paid in cash. That's very interesting and in tens of thousands of euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8076	Mr. Todorovic, I'm going to have to interrupt you here and suggest that you can apply to this important topic for a speaker and speak, so that you don't have to do this for three minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8077	It's not on the agenda. As soon as it's on the agenda, I'll come forward with pleasure and prepared material, facts, names, last names, dates when and what was done when it came to shoplifting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8078	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Andric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday LDP MPs tried, advertising violations of the Rules of Procedure and trying to get some information that we considered important, we tried to draw attention to the problem that we have about such a proposal and the adoption of such a bill. So, it is not disputed, the opening discussions discussed how our railway needs reconstruction, the rehabilitation of the railroad, how the funds are needed. We haven't questioned that for a moment. We haven't questioned the need for any moment, since the state doesn't have the funds, that these funds come from a loan or from a donation. What we were talking about is that we are taught by the previous experience and the behaviour of the Minister of Resort and the people who run the railways, we have doubts about how this money will be spent and therefore we refuse to guarantee in this way on behalf of the state that such people are entrusted with money or funds. We talked about it all the time. So again, I'm going to repeat a few of the systemic problems we have with this kind of law-making. First, all public enterprises are divided according to the feudal principle. That principle means that the Director and the Management Board are from the same party. So there is no longer possible inter-party control, which the coalition government and coalition governance at least allowed for some reason. That the minister and the railway administration don't respect the law, every citizen of this country knows it, and it's enough to read any newspaper or watch any TV station or TV program for the past four years. We are explained here that it was not necessary to take cars under the Public Procurement Act, namely to call a tender, that the law was exceeded, old, how it should be abolished. I think that's where the suggestions went, if I remember correctly. Then, on each issue, we see the symbolic relationship of Minister Ilic towards the respect of the law. The last example is this clinic that he tried to build around Cacka and his relationship with that section in general regarding the regulation of building permits. It's all about the man and who put that spirit into that ministry, which the whole law doesn't recognise. Next, public control... Where is he now? ) Thank you, that's what I was going to say, but since we know what kind of answers we can get from the minister, maybe it's better not to be here. So there's no such thing as public control. Every time the question is asked -- how do you spend money, we get an answer -- you're in an election campaign, and you're not, I don't even know, you brought swimsuits or what we heard here yesterday. That's a method you've already seen. He doesn't bother us. It's your right to behave as you please. The parliamentary majority is silent, there's no problem with that, afraid of jeopardizing those other public enterprises that have acquired a feudal system, therefore, from jeopardizing their positions. The minister will come here, eventually if he's in a good mood, he'll kick somebody out, when he's passing through here, he'll get hit by a couple of MPs, if a reporter asks him something, he'll break his camera, he'll pour water on him, and it'll all go away. It can't, it doesn't work that way, gentlemen. The only reason we chose yesterday to, by advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, draw attention to this, it's because of your ignoring, it's because of ignoring all the facts that we've made. In every or every maltene of any injury to the Rules of Procedure, we quoted someone from DS or DSS. We quoted your statements that you made before you joined the coalition with Velimir Ilic, before you granted him control and power over Serbia's private company, the private company owned by the New Serbia party. So all the affairs that we mentioned, I'm just going to remind you, that's the supply of the locomotive, that's the affair from which it raised DS; construction without permission, I don't know which, we saw on TV; concessions on the Horgos highway -- Pozega, thousands of questions and no answers. We didn't mention a hundred more affairs, we didn't mention the Global Fines company, famous experts from Australia who were hired to collect diaspora money for Velimir Ilic's account and his ministry to help Serbia. However, since the owner's criminal record was found to exist, the Serbian ambassador from Australia called the ministry and asked for the contract to be annulled with the company. So, the road mob, we didn't mention it, there was talk about it today. Whatever they caught up with, whatever Minister Ilic went through, there was an affair. You have come and asked the Serbian Parliament MPs to, with all these conditions that we have stated, give guarantees that such a man, and such a ministry and such a railway administration will spend money in the way that they only promise to spend it. We didn't get any answers to the issue of control yesterday. None. We got the minister's answer today. Let me say how I understood him. Don't be afraid, they won't steal ours, there'll be those from Europe to control them. Is that what the minister told us? There will be an international tender, part of which will be attended by railway representatives, but most will be made by representatives of those who give credit. Don't worry, you from Europe won't let these of us steal. That's not enough for us to answer. That's not enough reason for us to support a proposal like this. We're real, we see most of them. There's the government's backup party, that's the SPS. We therefore count that some of you MPs are aware enough not to support this proposal in this way. Let me repeat once again, surely if such a proposal is adopted and this is the case, without additional control, without the shift of the people in the railways, without the change of Minister Ilic, there will certainly be an affair, surely this money will not be spent as it is now, today and yesterday here. I'm sure it won't be that way. That's what the whole history of Velimir Ilic assures us. Then think about it now. Not when it happens. Whoever raises his hand today, and without suggesting that these items of the agenda be complemented by some additional control, that eventually the committee gets all the suggestions and in some way the committee controls it, who today raises his hand for this bill without these additional guarantees, is an accomplice of the gentlemen. The silence is allowing it to happen, it's an accessory to it. I'm sorry, there's no Mrs. Kolundjia, who accused us of being in some kind of election campaign. No, we're not in the election campaign, but you're giving us so many reasons that it's like an election campaign for us every day. It's about you, not us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8080	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Andric. The word has the People's Messenger, Dr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8081	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to say one remark first. There are, of course, many laws that are proposed and which are in a certain way politically colored by the attitude of the majority that is currently being formed. But there are laws that have nothing to do with who's in power, and who in opposition and, right away, this is one set of laws. In other words, I would give a speech like this that I will give and that my party is currently in opposition. First of all, a few words about points 28, 19 and 30. It's about international conventions, the first two in the rail domain, and the third in the mail. It's about conventions that, if it hadn't been for the country's isolation for ten years, would have been ratified long ago and would not have, and my colleague was reading the list of countries that signed those conventions, we were probably at the end now. There's no need to assure you that it's pointless to even think that we don't access conventions in this area. I'd rather stay a little longer at points 26 and 27. It's about loans. One's for getting the wagons, the vehicles, and the other's for the railroad. What I didn't hear here, and what I think is very important to say, is that if it's about the railway, it's really important to take parallel investment in both the vehicles and the railroad. In fact, we have interests in investing in both. The world around us doesn't have that kind of interest, on the contrary. Other countries are very interested in us investing in the railroad, but they're not interested in investing in vehicles, because if we don't have the means to drive, they'll drive. Therefore, in the management of this transport diplomacy and politics, it should always work like this, so, parallel investment in both vehicles and railways. When some loans are taken, then usually all attention is focused on the conditions under which loans are obtained and what are interest rates, repayment deadlines, and so on. I think something else is even more important, and that's what credits are spent on. On the other hand, if our country has any priority, some convenience, some chance at something, it's undoubtedly traffic. When I say traffic, I mean not just railways, road traffic, I mean air traffic. We're also, many don't know, at an important airspace intersection. There are roads over our skies both to the Far East and to Europe and Africa. We develop air traffic in terms of the construction of airports, supply terminals and so on have a great chance. Don't connect it to JAT, it's who's the carrier that's more or less irrelevant. The important thing is that we can use our position. We're on important corridor 7, that's the Danube, we should invest in river traffic. Many don't know, we have 2,000km of waterways in Serbia in perspective. Unfortunately, a good part of these roads is currently not trained and should be trained. No need, my colleague from the DS was talking yesterday, explaining to you what a chance it is to tie up all these kinds of traffic we're making. Of course, the special category is mail and telecommunications and that's also important, because if something is global in this world it's telecommunications. So it's about one area in which it's good to invest money. When you invest money in traffic, you have another effect and it's known for decades in the world. In fact, the money invested in traffic is normally spent in the country, regardless of whether the contractor is this or that, at the end and the railroad, and the road, and the goods terminal and so on are building our people and getting money for it. That money stays in the country. They are generally not spent, because in fact through the pockets of the citizens, through the revenues of the state and everything else remains state. There have been such examples in history, I'm not going to name them, these big jobs in road construction, highways and so on, where even the basic motive was to hire the people. When the director of the Railways was visiting the Committee the other day, I was on the board, and I'll repeat here, I said that I expect that in the car business, too, a good part of these jobs, that is, all that is possible, are being carried out by our companies, and that is very important. It's very important, it doesn't matter who owns the company, our citizens work in these companies, our people do, and we need that cookie, from that car that they make or repair to keep the money, that way, generally taking it, the money stays with the state. It seems to me, I understand the political motives of all parties, it's the right of the opposition whether it supports or does not support, but I call on you to think about it anyway and simply ask that on a capital case like this... This is an example of welfare for the state, not for the party, not for this or that government, this is something that is good for the state of Serbia, and keep that in mind. Finally, I'm going to end up here, I've heard all kinds of speeches, not to convince, who have one wrong logic behind them, regardless of exactly what is said. And the logic is about like this, it's true that the country is round, but we'll admit it when we like the government, or the minister. I repeat once again, let's think about the state of Serbia and, believe me, this law would, and I believe the DSS party, support even if we were an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8082	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Vujadinovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8083	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to member 225 and 226. Let me say one sentence first. A colleague, Dragan Todorovic, probably said in the omak that Mr. Grujica Spasovic was a participant of the road mafia, and was later corrected to be Major Cije, and I am reporting to you that Mr. Grujica Spasovic is the former editor-in-chief of the list "Today", and is currently Serbia's ambassador to BiH. I have reported to members 225 and 226, and I am sorry that Minister Ilic is not here, because in my opinion, the Government, the Executive Authority, and the Assembly should not run away from the state of our public enterprises. No one should escape the current catastrophic state of our public enterprises, which is no wonder. In all Southeast European countries, public enterprises were in a catastrophic state when they entered the transition system and changed ownership, as the state, as a proven bad entrepreneur, essentially brought them into this state. That's not controversial. We now have to admit this and say that this hot potato, which is called increasing the efficiency of 17 public enterprises at the republican level and 450 at the local level, is one of the priorities of the executive government and cannot be delayed, but cannot delay the root policy change in this sphere. In my opinion, the first point of this root policy is to enter a document called the Strategy for increasing efficiency, restructuring and privatisation of public enterprises, these 17, where we will see the intentions and possibilities and term-plans, deadlines, activities and deadlines in which public enterprises will be restructured, i.e. to increase efficiency. Some economic analysts, perhaps it's biffed, but they say that in one year, the NIS god of inefficiency and because of a poor organisation, although a monopolist, loses 300m euros, or 24 billion dinars. Here we are for infrastructure and for improving the efficiency of railways. Therefore, it is necessary that the Minister for Infrastructure and other Ministers and all of us as a state face a problem called increasing the efficiency, restructuring and privatisation of public enterprises and that, based on a specific timetable, content and deadlines, we actually enter the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8084	Replica, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8085	I'm sorry, just because I'm not in the O.R. right now doesn't mean I'm not following the Assembly. I'm getting ready for the Committee on Local Self-Government. I guess all the members who have the opportunity to get a stenogram to understand the proportions of incredible things that happened in the City Assembly. When it comes to Grujica Spasovic, I'm really surprised that you're going out so easily and that you're covering Grujic Spasovic with the fact that he's an ambassador. Unfortunately, I am convinced that since 2000, since the DOS came to power, a question would be asked who is not a spy or does not work for other foreign countries or anyone else's interests. When it comes to Grujica Spasovic, there are clear things. You have a book that's come out called 'Ci's Major Grujica Spasovic'. Read it, look at all the evidence in that book, so come and discuss it. What is strange about the situation and the country where we lived and where we were? We were a fully drilling country by foreign agents, in which one part of the reportedly worked for foreign intelligence services, including Grujica Spasovic. The fact that you paid them back is clear to me, because there were people among you who worked for foreign intelligence. I don't mean you personally, I'm talking about DOS, and you belong to that group. You may not feel like a DOS member, but that's a fact. Some things then dismember with yourselves. Deputy Prime Minister of the DOS, retired General Momcilo Perisic, former Chief of Staff, who, among other things, was replaced because there were reasonable doubts that confidential information was provided to foreign services, was removed from the post, and was arrested in front of cameras giving information to John Nabor, a CIA agent who worked in our premises. Look now, here you have the last days run a controversy over the role of some people in the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic, six of them in England, including John Najbor, who died in a very mysterious way in Hungary. But this second, Talbot, who came here and practically organized the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic, with whom did he do it? With DOS leaders, led by Zoran Djindjic and everyone else. You're talking about some things here, you're bringing out and you're saying that he's a journalist and that he's an ambassador that's the fact that he's going through with everything he's done against our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8086	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Professor Vojislav Seselj wrote the book 'Cije's Major Grujica Spasović', which was seven years ago, it was based not only on his statements, but also on various media performances, press-clipping, that he diagnosed another traitor among that branch, whom you, Mr. Vujadinović, praise. However, the tragedy of our people is that they are the worst of the worst and came to power in 2000 and that these, unfortunately, represent us in our diplomacy. You sent him right where he should protect the interests of the troubled Serb people, who was kidnapped by one third of the territory and who he wants the entire Republic, now rounded up, to take us away from us completely. However, I must give you a notice. Because of his high treasonous actions, now in place as an ambassador, whom you of DOS have appointed, he has in C.I.A., so he is no longer a major, but is a colonel and is likely to move on, since his treasonous role is such.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8088	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. I'm sorry, when you're in charge, Mr. Mihaylovich, you're in charge. Therefore, I ask the Socialists to calm down a little bit. It is that the railway is a nice subject, but calm down a little bit. Mr. Dusan Bajatovic is ready to speak now. Then you have a chance to talk about it. If the Socialists think they can handle everyone, they can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8089	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am speaking under Rule 225 of Section 1 - National MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. Of course, all the MPs who are here in the hall are very interested in learning some details, here's when we mentioned Cija's Major Grujic Spasovic, quite accidentally Mr. Todorovic mentioned his name and I don't know why it occurred to someone to defend him, to defend him undefensefully. It is true that Dr Vojislav Seselj published the book "Cije's Major Grujica Spasović". This book, among other things, contains a set of court files, as Mr Vojislav Seselj, who was always before all the facts, especially about the DOS officials, here yesterday we were witnesses when Minister Velja Ilic mentioned Morović, drunkard Natasa Micic, etc., Vojislav Seselj talked about it in 2001, and then everyone reacted about how he now, I am sure, totally unintentionally, a colleague here reacted. So you should be aware that what we say from the SRS, even if at that moment it seems not true to you, you will soon be convinced that it is true and so, from time to time, like Velja Ilic, when he gets angry by Dragan Dilas, although it used to refer to others here, but I see today in the paper that he was actually angered by Boris Tadic and Gilas, but I will talk about it when he is here. So, this Major of Cija, Grujica Spasovic, was sued by Prof. Vojislav Seselj for defamation, for giving facts about him and of course that court dispute was lost, as was lost by Nebojsa Covic, and Dusan Mihajlović and all those whom Vojislav Seselj taught at press conferences and from this place publicly called, as we do today, I am sure more unsuccessful than Dr Vojislav Seselj did, but we have learned enough from him and we have never had a problem with bringing out from this place and from any public place what we know is true. We never lie, not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia. That is why Serbian citizens trust us and that is why Serbian citizens believe and know that Grujica Spasovic, an alcoholic, is Cija's major.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8090	The word has a National MP Dusan Bajatovic, and then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8091	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I've also reported to the Rules of Procedure. It is that you are my colleague, vice president of the SPS, but you must respect that. Here, just for your sake, I'll keep it quiet. I'd like you to refuse me these 15-16 seconds you've already stolen from me, because I want to replicate the LDP gentlemen. No problem, I've got 20 minutes. You can pick up your business any time you want, if Darka sees you. So, what's the point? The LDP gentleman, Mr. Ivan Andric, has made one notorious lie, stupidity, whatever you want. He says SPS is a backup game. Who's that? If someone is willing to vote for something good, it seems to me, for all Serbian citizens, and for thieves who will happen at the ministry or during the tender, we can talk separately, then I think the SPS serves the honor of voting in this House for those things that have been accepted and clearly intended for all citizens. Those who are sorry that they are not in power, who belonged to DOS, are now telling their comrades what they know about each other, and the whole of Serbia knows that there has been no stuffed revolution without an agent, as in the 20th and 21st centuries there has been no introduction of democracy and human rights, from Hitler to Bush, without bombs, planes and armies. That's what happened to Serbia. I have no doubt in the nature of Mr Spasovic's actions. There are big lists, but today I won't talk about him anymore and I won't speak to the LDP gentlemen, who are sorry they're not in power. You know, the easiest thing to do is break one country when you're in power? When he brings his government into a country, then he doesn't need bombs anymore, he doesn't need planes anymore, it's enough that he doesn't know exactly what to do, or worse, if he knows exactly what to do, and it's not for the benefit of the people and the state. This is where I finished my line, Mr. Grouchy, so if I could have a word for the rest?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8092	No problem, you've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8093	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. As far as the SPS is concerned, I am again a principled position, and it will be valid during this session, unless this power is too much, and it is close, that those projects, those international ratifications, in this case those loans that are in the function of developing the Serbian economy, in the function of improving the standard of citizens, perhaps even in the function of opening some new jobs, because such projects are the least visible in terms of the current government, does not mean that they are not fully available, for all such projects in advance I want to tell everyone, and to those who like it and those who do not like it - that the SPS will vote in principle. That's why the people voted for us - to try and make him feel better. I'm sorry that our parliamentary group isn't bigger that we can influence more, but that's why I have a proposal for my fellow radicals. Let's gather, we have more than 1/3 MPs, so all of these topics that we bring out are criminal to put them on the agenda, as we wanted to put on the agenda trust with the government and that we really talk about it in one session to the end clearly and publicly, and that there's a court clerk, a man from the MUP and UPBOK, so that all of this is recorded. Then the DOS gentlemen will talk a little bit about us, to finally clear up that Serbian political scene, to see who our thieves are, who their thieves are, and that all the thieves and ours and theirs are finally going to jail, so that they can finally work here. I know it causes controversy, but I really think that every thief, first of all ours, if there were such, when I say 'our', are those who used the party to illegally acquire funds for their own personal needs, that they should go to jail. I don't know what's going on here. As for the railroad, please, what bothers us here, I was in the previous Federal Assembly, is the fact that these loans, as well as many other government moves, are being done without a clear strategy. I looked at this supposed strategy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. She was very professional and well spoken of by her colleague Mrkonjic, who knows the area well. But the fact that we know what we need to do with the projects, how we need to reconstruct businesses, because we've been told mostly by Europeans, but we understand for ourselves, it's not about clear methodology, clear deadlines and clear priorities. I'll be gentler than my fellow radicals. He can't go to a village and say, even if it's because of the election, at least for whatever reason, I'm gonna swing a million, two, three, five euros here. Maybe he didn't steal it, maybe those citizens really got their way, but the question is: (Dragan Todorovic from the place: Where does he swing?) ) Of our money, Mr. Todorovic, of VAT, of the people, of the loans we need to repay. So I want to talk, no matter what Mr. Ilic isn't here, that often in these seven or eight years, I defined the term "experts," please. An expert is a man who no one gets into the field of expertise, who thanks to his party and its blackmailing capacity within the coalition that is in power, has the opportunity to be placed in a responsible place and works in this place to gain personal and party benefits. So that's what I'm talking about. So what I would argue with here, if we were to have a serious discussion here, about affairs later, is that we don't have clear deadlines, we don't have a clear methodology and we don't have clear priorities. I know the minister's here, he'd go out for a pay phone and tell you -- so we don't know, so Corridor 10, so you tunnel, and you drill, and then you give the money, and you take the loans. It's all right, but that's not clear in the strategy. We don't have clear deadlines. Gentlemen, we're seriously late. When a man goes to Croatia, on that new highway, whatever we think of the Croats and their state, about the way it was created, that highway to the coast is great. This one from Belgrade to Zagreb is over. They took billions, but those billions they took back. That's what the esteemed professor was talking about. Shami and it's from the scientific point of view and the views of the economy really do. Why is it that eight years after sanctions, in conditions where many claim that those who dropped bombs on Serbia today are supposed to be allies, except for the matter of kidnapping 15% of territory in exchange for economic benefits, which we will never agree on with such a policy in Serbia, so if they are allies, if we are talking about cheap loans, if we come easily into a negotiating position, why do we have so few realised capital projects in Serbia? That's the question we need to talk about. As far as I'm concerned, this incompetence is tied to the government and the government. This is about one fact, the feud of the ministries. That feud isn't just about not being able to control each other, it's about creating a system framework for corruption, gentlemen. The moment you have systemically created conditions for corruption, which is the feudalization of the ministries – even though you have improved the Law on State officials, which is not working, which has been delayed, because you have not been able to agree that you will have representatives of boards and directors of public enterprises, and let alone something else; therefore, the fact that you should have introduced an improvement in the accounting structure, you are unable to implement – in such conditions you really have those people sitting in the ministries, which I seem to have described very well through my present understanding of the concept of 'expert'. I'm not saying that the ministry, or the ministry, or the government agencies, which are also feudal and do what they want and do what they want, don't hire professional people, but it's too often where the profession should be exclusive in decision-making, and give the final and crucial word, the present policy. That fact itself says there's something wrong with it. So, please, I can't see in any of the current efforts, and this isn't just about one loan or another. I agree that Serbia lacks 2.5 thousand cars, right? But we also have a fact that you can't travel by passenger cars today from the smell. Is that what we don't have for powder? Don't we have enough cleaners? Do we not know the fact of the track and the speed of the ride, so our trains are late for hours and things like that? What do I want to say? I'm talking about internal resources. Furthermore, Serbia is not only late with railway infrastructure. Look at this slaughterhouse around JAT. You're right, Mr. Shami, the airport should be one company, JAT and transporters should be another, but it should be in the railway. Not only does the ZTP have to have locomotives and cars. I know it is, but right now we have a monopoly in fact, except for the Smederjev Ironworks, which accounts for 22% of rail revenues today. It says that our economy doesn't work either, that I don't repeat to you here what has already been heard and I'm avoiding just what we've been talking about. If a single company, even if it was Jellyzar Smederevo, brings you 22% of the income, what will you do at the moment that this ironworks may be reoriented to river transport? What about the potential in water traffic that hasn't been built either? I'm talking about methodology here and we're talking about the order where, gentlemen, I'm sorry, but we don't have a clearly defined strategy and we don't have clearly defined priorities. It seems to me, since I'm completely convinced that so-called. There's no cheap money, and here I'm convinced that the term "cheap money" is only used to convince citizens that it's good to withdraw a lot of credit. It's a loan, it's small interest rates, but somebody's got to get it back. So we're not talking about presents here. I know for a fact that the EBRD, or the European Bank for Development, had a different treatment for loans than the European Investment Bank. The European Investment Bank has forgiven us for something. We need these loans, but we need to explain to the citizens that these are loans and that, really, if we look at what was done today in Serbia, let Velja have done 3,000 km times, not slow down, what slow down is monitoring in a large number of works, because it is now seen that all these paths are not well done enough, or some. Further as I slow down and deeply resent the general policy of the government - why didn't construction take precedence? You know what, I'm fully aware of the facts, when they give you these cheap international loans, they look to hire their economy, and I guess since we're taking the money that there's a little extra in the European market today, we should make sure we hire our own economy. Well, then it turns out that in one large number of projects, the Bridge is a manufacturer. Why didn't we create tender conditions that would give priority to our companies, our world firms? An example of Prokop, why are we only now in a position for the Energy Project to continue working on a 15-20-year project after the collapse of its agreement with the Trigranite? The Energy Project did business yesterday and the day before, and six months ago, and two years ago. Why are we avoiding domestic companies? Let's take all the credit we want. I totally agree that for these jobs we take billions of loans wherever we can, under the most favourable conditions possible, but let's give a real boost to the domestic economy. I don't know if Gossa is ready at this point to make cars up to 200-250 miles an hour, but I know it used to be information. So let's see if we're in the privatisation process or the so-called process. transitions? Maybe we've ruined some companies that could have hired our employees. I want to talk about it with Mr. Ilic or at all with the government. Why in the tender policy, why in the story, in creating politics, excuse me, and when we talk about the efficiency of the system, many such systems as rails in other countries in the world, such as France, Germany, etc., their economic efficiency is not only brought about by ownership structure, this country plays a dominant role. This is where we say that the state needs to create a system framework. And how does she create it? By turning out that tender documentation, called as an international competition, is more favoured by international firms, and then they explain to us that it's because of banking conditions. So let's make the terms, get our banks out of bankruptcy, and we'll end the banking oligopoly, and then here we'll give licenses to serious foreign banks, and then our companies, like the Energy Project, or the Bridges or some other construction firms, will be able to apply for jobs under the same conditions as foreign companies. There are many foreign companies here, I have nothing against the arrival of foreigners, of course, and I don't want to have an economy that's competitive just because it's protected by the state, we need to develop an economy that can go to the European market, there's no dispute about it, but why don't we keep what we have, what's competitive and what's proven? Excuse me, please, the next question remains: we in Serbia today have a good part of a construction operation that is capable of doing all these jobs. I hope that also in the National Investment Plan, which will allegedly also refer to infrastructure, facilities of interest for citizens, etc., it will indeed be all transparent and we will employ this construction infrastructure, and professional and good people to work for those, as far as it was, 600-700m euros this year. Once we've moved further along with the government, there's still a few things we can figure out. Someone here was talking about who arrested his ministers, who didn't. In our day, a minister -- Sava Vlajkovic -- was arrested or something. This does not justify us, one sin cannot justify another sin, nor should we, if we want to make a good impression with the people and if we want to be responsible political elite, now we should call one another that way. We need to make sure all thieves go to jail. Now I ask the following question: if we follow our means of public information, let that be the period before 2000 and the period after 2000, how long is this an affair related to the work of the Government, it doesn't matter what composition, ends up in court? A little bit. Then LDP gentlemen, whose leader is accused of various criminal affairs, of various criminal associations, perhaps even some murders by some witnesses, lectures me on the morale of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Furthermore, when we plow with the government, the situation is that in many areas of our society – which I am sure, the situation in health and even in education, someone mentioned here, counterpart Dragan mentioned from the Democratic Party that NIS had no idea how many billions because of the bad organisation – that is what I say systemically does not use in the best possible way what exists as a reserve in public enterprises. It's not just NIS. Look at the salaries in public enterprises. I would agree to these salaries in public enterprises as a socialist, but provided that those workers, who pay these monopoly companies, have the same salary. These companies are overcrowded; with whom? The party champions. We're talking about the quality of management here. In many public enterprises today, because it is named after party infrastructure, I must welcome the arrival of Mr Ilic, in many public enterprises, Members of Parliament, there are internal resources. Another thing I think about is that I think we need to settle with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it also applies to railways, but also to airport transport, river transport, etc. I don't think we've made enough initiatives for private investment, those that don't go by the state and those that don't go by credit. We did a little bit for the Greenfield investment in Serbia and we did little to prove that our country is a legal state to the end, although we seem to be working very hard on it. Since we're running out of time, and I'm sure Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic will interrupt me exactly when it's time, right, we Socialists respect it, and I'd like to pray that in the future, before these laws come to the agenda, because in this assembly everything goes according to emergency procedure, and I don't see why we get materials that are six or nine months old, CEFTE type or this contract, I'm absolutely sure that no minister is responsible, but the translation service, but maybe I'm wrong. Mr. Ilic, I must tell you, you, like many other ministers here, have accused the Assembly of doing good work, so at all costs try to present to the public how MPs only take diaries and do nothing. Maybe I didn't understand you very well. I'm sorry, please, that the Assembly didn't sit for five months in the election period, half of you were in that government, you were ministers, like half of this. I am sorry, Mr. Mrkonjic probably knows that there is no Mr. Dulic, from him the heads of the parliamentary groups have information that everything in the procedure to this assembly has been put before this assembly. I pray that that impression in public, I simply feel the need to defend myself and all my fellow MPs, get off the agenda. Everything that has come to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is all in the process. Let the government gentlemen take a mirror, so instead of campaigning with MPs, not all ministers do it, some ministers do it, let them take a look at their work, and let them come to us here to clear things up. I'm not afraid of any minister, not even Velje Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8094	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miletic Mihajlovic and then MP Vjerica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8095	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has twice in the course of today's LDP is building up a position of its own, some of its points grabs for itself at the expense of the SPS. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, because I feel like there's been an attack on the dignity of the MPs, at least as far as the SPS is concerned. So, the SPS can't possibly be a backup party to anyone. For the sake of clarity both in front of you and the citizens, the SPS is an opposition party, but that doesn't mean that at all costs they'll vote against all the proposals that come here. The SPS is a state-run party, which will vote for what is in Serbia's interest, and of course will always criticise the government, as we do. On the other hand, as much as the LDP is allowed to claim that the SPS is a spare party, as much as we could say, could be a spare party of American parties, such as the Democratic American or this other Republican, or that it is the exposition of these parties here in Serbia. Now I was thinking about that American law, and this is a different story. As much as you LDP gentlemen are allowed to estimate that the SPS is retrograde, along with others who were in power before 2000, to the same extent that I could say what in the good part of the public is said to be your party's mercenaries, and that of American money, and that you are leading American politics here in Serbia, for their own interests, and against Serbia's interest. So, I return only with the same measure, or as far as the SPS is said to be anachronous, I also claim that the SPS takes care of a system of values that comes from history, tradition, and that goes in favour of building a Serbian national identity. So, to the same extent, we think that your system of values, which you are constantly talking about, is very suspicious and that what your role is, or the role of the underworld in what is the murder of Zoran Djindjic, etc. So, I regret that they are not representatives of the LDP here, but let the SPS be left behind and let them build their own policy, and the SPS policy is decadently clear and goes in favour of this Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8096	The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8097	Article 87. The Rules of Procedure - members of the Government, authorised representatives of other legislators and secretaries of the Republic Secretariat for Law, as well as other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly, participate in meetings of the National Assembly. When I reported to the Rules of Procedure, the reason was that Mr. Velimir Ilic was not one longer period in this room. You said exactly, Mr. Ilic, that the Parliament was working, that this would all be over in time. So, you, Mr. Ilic, must not speak to the MPs that way, we can speak to you. And it is not true that the Assembly is guilty of the government's disapproval, and as much as it is the Assembly's fault, you are guilty as one of the coalition partners in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who has not allowed the establishment of the Assembly and the normal work of the Assembly to this day. Because you will agree that Serbia is still in an unconstitutional state, still you from the government have not submitted certain legal proposals that you were under obligation, and you are still under obligation, according to the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, but there is, apart from the Government and other than Boris Tadic, I would say, the most responsible Oliver Dulic, but we will talk about it another time. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, given that the debate has begun on all these proposals, it is not that I am sorry for Mr. Ilic, and that only he will be getting pucks here for the sake of the government or his ministry, we are not just discussing the proposals represented here by Mr. Velimir Ilic. You, gentlemen of the assembly majority, and here you are today seven in the hall, let the camera turn, let the citizens of Serbia see again, accept to reunite the grandmothers and frogs in a single debate and are bound here, next to Mr Velimir Ilic, to sit down Mrs. Aleksandra Smiljanic, Minister, and Mr. Cvetkovic, also Minister. We're not just talking about train proposals, we're talking about those proposals that represent these two ministers. You, Mr. Ilic, most beautiful please, I know that you have this, not to say, a short fuse, that's what the people say, and that you have a problem with communication and with MPs, and with journalists, and in public at all, don't leave the room because you were upset by Dedier, Boris Tadic and Gilas, but tell the citizens of Serbia what you said to a newspaper. Please, just 15 more seconds. Vela Ilic, a senior DS official in the government, says, through his Dutch firm, with one of the bosses of the tobacco mafia, who is in prison, wants to buy a hotel in Sokobanja. Well, let's see what they do when he shows them all black on white. Mr. Velimir Ilic, you are obliged to tell the citizens of Serbia, to tell this parliament, if this is true, to say who it is, and if it is not true, then also to say that you were joking. The other part of the story is where you had to sit with someone in the government you described in a newspaper from a yellow company. So, I insist on your answer, you must as a People's MP and the Assembly to answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8098	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I agree with the lady, not about the size of Velija's fuse, but that the ministers who are to refer to these two points are not here and I ask Mr Mark Danilovic to ensure the presence of Mrs Smiljanic and Mr Cvetkovic. The replica was reported by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you for the invitation of Mr. Bajatovic to sit here and discuss our-your thieves, as he has already expressed himself. As far as the SRS is concerned, we'll allow you to discuss the matter slowly, leanly debated to the will and finally determine who the thief is. As far as Serbian radicals are concerned, there is no need for us to participate in this discussion, there is no thief in the SRS. If there were other parties, you'd have had the opportunity to hear this now and this information read by the Verse of Radet, and for this I'm sure that Mr. Velimir Ilic would never have said it by heart, but that he had the data and that he knew for certain that what he said was true. I don't have any dilemmas here. As the other part invites Mr. Bayatovic to take it seriously when it comes to this assembly, to discuss these affairs, to call the state's prosecutor and to immediately, practically after these discussions, determine whether there are arguments, whether there are no arguments and to initiate criminal charges. To remind you, you remember that last term was founded the Survey Committee on the functioning of the Energy Mafia, that this committee worked for a long time, that there was a problem with a separate opinion, because the conclusion could not have been unanimously adopted because the energy mafia was uncontested in the system, or through certain ministries in the government, and that, after that, because of its inability, the SRS was forced to sit down itself, fold the tab, write a criminal report, and that until today, the D.A. has not responded. It's not the only criminal complaint filed by the SRS doing the work of the state authorities, among other things for Sartid. There is no affair for which we have not filed criminal charges, with valid evidence that a crime has been committed, and that the prosecution has no answer or simply to follow that easy answer - there are not enough elements. How can we even trust this assembly as an institution to do everything to reduce crime and corruption, when the report from the Survey Committee on the role of the energy mafia is gone to this day? Then what do you expect from us? How do we even believe that you have the intention and desire to clear up with corruption and crime?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8100	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we radicals want our rails to be better, safer, big money is being invested, but we are expressing open suspicion of whether the funds will be targeted and used. Yesterday there was a lot of talk here about the origins of the Serbian railway and I would just like to supplement what was said yesterday, specifically about what was written in the paper "Justice". It was said - in 1884, on May 1st, King Milan took his first train trip to Nis. That trip lasted five hours and 35 minutes, with a mat. Today, if Serbian President Boris Tadic set out to travel to Nis and the minister said he would send him a Swedish, or locomotive, the trip would take six hours and five minutes. So King Milan would have arrived in half an hour before Nis. Before I talk about these bill proposals, which is mainly about giving guarantees for new loans over 100m euros, I would have to as a citizen of this country and as a member of the Serbian people to say the following -- Serbia has its own budget, Serbia also gets some funding from foreign banks, but Serbia has no right, either morally, or historically, to out of our money, from the money of Serbian patriots, Serbian heroes, to single out a single dinar, let alone a million euros for the head of decent Serbian General Ratko Mladic. This historic disgrace and shame will be the crown of the desolation of those who rule Serbia from October 5th to this day. We have several draft laws in front of us regarding the specific rail, i.e. the operation of mail within the framework of the World Post Council regulations. As usual, as is done in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Infrastructure, formerly the Ministry of Capital Investment, appears to be dealing with loans and this huge, intended for one ministry, or minister, as it has been here all along. Under the first bill, there are as many as 60 million loans, and under the second draft of the law, it is 80m euros for what is said to be the reconstruction of the track on priority railway lines along corridor 10. So we have a total of 140m, plus 125m euros from the budget that the Republic of Serbia will invest in modernising Serbia's railways. As I recall, a year ago, parliament's previous assembly also voted most of the ruling guarantee coalition's votes for the ministry's needs. First of all, it's huge money, it's millions of euros. The question is where and how to invest, because the suspicion is justified. Minister Ilic is the only one who can "gratify" it is a daunting circumstance, above all, for the work of his ministry, that in the work of his ministry, unfortunately, there are even three mafias living illegally. First of all, the road mob, second of all -- asphalt, third of all -- construction, maybe there's a railroad, some of which I may have forgotten to mention, I apologize in advance. On second thought, who will preserve 140m euros worth of projects from people who are not immune to theft, corruption, rigging tenders, applying jobs, etc. It is clear to all of us that the Republic of Serbia will pay off this debt as a guarantee because the Serbian Railway is in no condition to do so and it is well seen in Article 2. In this same article, in Section 202, the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The guarantee will be required to provide new funds if it fails anything more than these 140 million. In translation, it will happen when Minister Velimir Ilic requests the funds. Otherwise, you know, the government will fall. This is not in vain written, because in return, the Republic of Serbia, or guarantee, will prepare a draft law, which will require the Serbian Railways to adopt a new structure of the company, which includes privatisation for the time being of three secondary actions of this public enterprise, in Section 203. We'd like to hear what the side effects are. So, after this comes the restructuring, social programs for workers and the purchase of certain parts of the company, probably from friends of executives. This first guarantee, as it says here -- Serbia's railways, vehicles -- probably also refers to the purchase of locomotives and other means of transport. Now I would like to think of some means of driving, namely Swedish locomotives, obtained with all-increased combustion and sacrifice of director of the Železnica Sarančić. These locomotives are so good that they came to Serbia even in one piece, even in Belgrade they managed to drive them. There's been a lot of public talk about this affair. What an epilogue he is - no one knows yet. Also, like this road mob, only the director remained clean, knew nothing, and the robbery took place for years. Do you remember a picture of the Swedish locomotives? They were pulled from an outside dump. They also had drug addicts, adventurers and failed artists practicing their art with various sprays and colors. That's how they got dragged to Belgrade. How much they were worth, how much they were paid, we've never officially heard of it. One count them as old iron, the other too expensive. We'd just like to know how much was paid for those famous Swedish locomotives. The first contract was signed on July 14th, and this second one later. Article 2 describes what is to be done by individuals, and writes: "The guarantee fully guarantees the full and timely execution of all the cash obligations of the borrower to the bank in respect of the amount of the principal, interest, without any restrictions, without commission and any other fees". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you heard, there's no commission. Do you believe that individuals who involved their fingers in the road mafia, in construction, in railway, asphalt, will not be wrong about the law? Do any of the citizens who listen to this now believe it? Speaking of commissions, the founder of commissioning in Serbia, Nemanja Kolesar, otherwise then head of cabinet of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, you know his past work, cementery, ironworks, shipyard, etc., is one of the pioneers of the dossage way of thinking about the way to Europe with full suitcases of money. That goes on all these years from October 5th to today. It's funny when in this Article 2 political heirs of DOS are being fenced by thoughts of commission, let alone something like that dared to do. In the end, why do I doubt the proper use and use of funds from the loan? First of all, because of the leaders of certain enterprises within this ministry, as well as in the structure of the leadership of the Serbian Railways. Another reason, when we look at how it was reconstructed to a good part of the Belgrade-Nish highway. Last year, the entire section of the highway was changed with a new asphalt and instead of taking at least five, six or ten years, now literally small craters, holes in a sequence, are opening on the highway. It's not a highway anymore. That, as I would say, looks like some Turkish judo. I'm literally on the highway every day, and I'd like to ask the MPs -- let them pay attention to the route from Markovac to Pojat. They'll see the holes, if they don't hit one, there's asphalt. Now I'm asking a logical question -- which did the supervisory authority take in the reconstructed section of the highway and let it go into use, and it didn't last half a year, some parts of it have been damaged after a few months?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8102	The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the presence of Minister Ilic to come up with an explanation or any information about the important life problems that plague the people below. Article 226. We have huge problems on the M 25/2 highway, which connects Presevo with the M1 Belgrade-Skoplje master's route, due to the railway crossing at the train station, where the adequate solution has never been before, but the problems for road traffic have been increased since 1992, when it was started at the Presevo railway station to carry out passport controls and other procedures that require one border post. This has become not only a problem for ordinary transitions, but also for economic development at all, because it can sometimes wait for more than half an hour. Of course, we've been looking all the time for a solution from the competent ministry. Minister Ilic is slightly more familiar with the problem two years ago. So far, nothing concrete has been done. I would add that, of the twenty crossing points on the territory of Presevo municipality, only two of them are protected by ramps, the rest are completely unprotected. On the main road, when it comes to local roads, which connect several settlements with a thousand inhabitants, there are often very difficult tragedies. It's especially on the road at the entrance to the villages of Rajince and Blackie. There have been projects there for years. However, it has not yet been realised that at least these more important spring crossings on the most important local roads are protected, as is done on all other occasions when there is a great flow of traffic, and there are largely dangers of repeating the tragedies that we had a few years ago, and very difficult, when more people get hurt. The question is mostly addressed to the minister, to see what are the options for this problem to be solved most urgently in the Presevo municipality.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8104	The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic, and let the MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8105	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the set of laws before us is extremely important for rail traffic. We all agreed here that Corridor 10 is a priority over priorities. Of course, it takes an extremely large amount of resources to complete, not only the driver's infrastructure, but the infrastructure itself to repair. It's not only important to take down Corridor 10, not to mention it's extremely important that the bar track connects with Corridor 10. So modernization of infrastructure is necessary. It came in this direction with electricity, practically, ending from Cačka to Kraljev, and the infrastructure is in desperate condition and will continue to Kruševec. Of course it takes a lot of money. I don't have to explain why it's important that Corridor 10 connects to the bar track, because it would create a kind of triangle. It is very important to connect Serbia with the port of Bar and via Corridor 10 to other parts of Europe. What I will especially point out is that the Serbian Railways, which are in an extremely difficult situation, because we wouldn't be talking here today if they weren't, make efforts and manage to earn money in these difficult situations. I must say that since 2004, about 120m euros of inherited debts have been paid back by the Railways of Serbia and that some 16m euros have been managed in the internal plan. So, the state is constantly helping the Serbian Railways, but hardworking, hardworking workers of the Serbian Railways and leadership are succeeding in amortising the difficult situation themselves. It is extremely important, in terms of vehicles, to purchase multi-system locomotives. This is one way to get out of the borders of the former SFRY, because I will tell you that our railways are multiphase, and to move further towards Slovenia and Italy, where the monophasic method of transmission in electricity is important to obtain and multisystem locomotives, so that this Corridor 10 is even more functional. It is very important that we return to international organisations, we were practically disabled because of sanctions, OTIF and KOTIF organisations. I will also tell you that the OTIF is extremely important, that on 6 October 2000, again, after the sanctions, we submitted an application for membership in the OTIF and after a brief procedure on 1 August 2001, we became full members of this basic inter-state railway organisation. Practical membership in the OTIF by the SRJ was legally inherited by the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and then by the Republic of Serbia. It is of paramount importance that we pass this agreement and accept this law. The COTIF Convention remains the basic convention of international rail transport, which provides direct international rail transport of passengers and goods. That's all I'd like. Of course, it is a difficult situation on the railways, but we are doing exactly all of this and we are doing to manage to adapt the railway as soon as possible and restore its role and importance in maintaining traffic, to bring it back and try to modernise and drive and infrastructure, as soon as possible to the modern trend and, of course, since 2010/ 2020, as Mr. Mrkonjic said, we hope to achieve the speeds that are in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8106	I thank the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8107	Mr President, Mr Minister, honourable fellow MPs, for the sake of the public, since often this discussion goes to a party that does not have a very desired course, to say that in this joint discussion we are talking about a bill on the confirmation of the Treaty on the Guarantee of Serbia - a vehicle between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government; a proposal for a law on the approval of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank - a project on the renewal of railways two, which was submitted by the Government; a bill on the approval of the Agreement on the establishment of a high performance network in Southeast Europe and a proposal for a law on the approval of the Protocol of 3 June 1999 on amendments to the Convention on International Railway Transports of 9 May 1980 and the Convention on International Railway Transport of the European Railways from 9 May 1980, in the version of the 3rd of the Republic of Serbia. Somewhere in January 2005, when the Law on Railways was passed, I was also talking about this problem. Maybe I wouldn't even answer right now, because I really don't think there's a citizen in Serbia who has insight into the state of our railway that's going to say that these funds and these laws are not needed, the bill to adopt, in order to cure one of the most devastated, most destroyed public enterprises in Serbia. The situation in the railways is very much the result of the wrong path that we started there at the beginning of the last decade, when the Berlin Wall was torn down. Unfortunately, we didn't get along very well. Our country has gone some other way, the whole of Europe has gone the other way, so today we are coughing for many countries that were then under 20, 30 years long behind us, not just talking about railways and businesses, especially economies, etc. I remember here in that time of government, and I think it was Zelenovic's government, when Minister Prohaska was showing charts, talking about fast tracks, highways, Serbia's development prospects, etc. Those were really good intentions, but this time it turned out that the road to hell was also paved with good intentions. We had good intentions, and where we arrived tells us the situation in which our railroad today, because it's one of the topics, how to heal our railroad. When there's one thesis that says every country is the same as the railroad. We've heard here what a railroad is in Germany, what a railroad is in France, and so is the state and so is organized. We could freely say that in this state, we also found the country in 2000 as we found the railroad. Here I'm going to give some information on the state of the railway in 2000, when there was a change in government in fact. The French railways and the French state look like the French railway or the German state looks like the German railway, and the Serbian state today looks unfortunately still as our railways look, largely in spite of numerous efforts to improve this situation over the past seven or eight years. What was the state of railway infrastructure in 2000, and how large is it today? It's kind of catastrophic. The railway infrastructure consists of railway railways, railways, electricity and stable installations, electric trains with belonging facilities, telecommunications and information facilities with buildings, land in a rail safety belt, railway stations buildings, depots and other railway stations, which are in function of rail traffic on a non-rational basis. Furthermore, the fact that there is no strategy for the development of this public enterprise, rather unprofessional and irresponsible management is at that time, without minimum competence, spending resources on missed political rather than professionally based projects. Indeed, in these difficult times and times of sanctions and hard life, some projects such as the stand of the Vuk monument, the ground work on the virtual fast track of Valjevo - Loznica, the demolition, and the rebuilding, parts of the railway station Prokop in Belgrade were carried out. We see that there is an intensity here, and I hope that it will be achieved in the near future to end it once in order to open this Sava amphitheater. That's what's already been said and I don't want to talk about it anymore. All of this has been done under difficult conditions of general destruction of the people and of the state. I think that money could have been spent a lot better and the railroad wouldn't be in this state today. The total track write-off was 96 per cent, and about 80 per cent of the thresholds are wooden and their average rot is about 15 per cent, and 55 per cent of the total length of the track is allowed axle load below 22.5 tonnes. In the last decade, the remont track looks like this: from 1990 to 1995, a 110km rail was remounted, in 1996, 10.5 kilometers, in 1997, 13.5 kilometers, in 1998, 10.8 kilometers, and in 1999 and 2000, not one single kilometer of rail was remounted. So, for this decade from 1990 to 2000, only about 140km of railroad in Serbia has been remounted. This speaks of the proportions of work we face in the healing of a completely destroyed system, such as the Serbian Railways. The cycle of remounting the master's tracks has not been completed in the last 34 years. Corridor 10, which we're talking about and which should be our advantage, we've always said that the fault we're in is that we're on our way, and that should be our big advantage in the future. The trains of Belgrade - Nis go slightly faster than we talked here about the average speed of 44km, go about 63, 29km per hour and arrive in a row of driving in 4 hours and one minute. I don't think they ever arrived exactly on time, since I often travel that railroad myself. There was a project called "two hours and 58 minutes" at the time, as it took so long to reach the train from Belgrade station to Nis station. Today, from Kikinda to Pancheva arrive in 4 hours and 30 minutes, and in 1958, Belgrade - Kikinda arrived in 2 hours and 58 minutes. From Zrenjanin to Belgrade, about 70km of railway, travels about six hours today. Parts of the Belgrade railway -- Nis and Belgrade -- at least trains move at the speeds that are spoken of here, about 40km per hour. Before 2000, the last track maintenance machines in ZTP Belgrade were purchased in 1985. The depreciation rate of all capacities is higher than 100 per cent. The average depreciation rate of the bouncers is 188.7 per cent, and three out of five detours are in the third working century, over 200 per cent amortisation. It is a similar situation with machines engaged in investment maintenance of railways, maintenance and control machines, where the rate of depreciation ranged from 140 per cent to even over 300 per cent. The vehicles are in exactly the same catastrophic state. Diesel and electrolocomotives, motor trains and Shinobuses and electric trains were about 75 percent out of the machine during this period. Many, and as a consequence of one of the former leadership decisions to suspend regular six-month remonts. It's just like in your car that you own, you don't change the oil, the oil filter, the air filter, and so on, everything that belongs to it, but you say - let's go while it goes, and then you have to perform a general remont of a complete car. In many ways, one of these decisions culminated in making this situation and the situation in the railways. The result of one of these decisions, among other bad decisions made, is that according to the 2001 data of 513 tow vehicles, there were only 133 correctly, and of 392 passenger cars were 130 correctly and 262, and of the total of 14,601 wagons were correct, 5.264 cars. Electrical engineering devices are more than three decades old and are at the border of total depreciation. Automatic telephone and telegraph networks and analogue transmission systems are older than 25, up to 40 years old, and are completely exceeded, and are no longer produced by equipment or spare parts. These are some reminders, just to make sure that the size of this problem is and how much was the country in that period that was someone who was very mismanaged by this system and allowed it to be completely devastated. We also need privatisation, we need a radical change and reform in the entire system and set up on a completely different basis. And of course it is necessary both technically and organisationally and personnelly to equip this system so that it can be restructured, later privatised and fully efficient, for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Not to go any further, Jovan Cvijic once said about it, our constant, frequent thesis, about how we built a house on the road, really as I said in my previous presentation should be our advantage, not our fault. And that corridor seven and corridor ten, and the railroad and the highway. Jovan Cvijic then said - if we have already built a house on the road, we have two ways to treat that house, to defend it with a rifle or to charge toll. I think the time has come for us to charge toll and we have fought too long to defend that path. We need to make that path, charge toll and build infrastructure, corridor 10, railways, roads, waterways that we have through our country, allow for the rapid, efficient and clogged development of Serbia, in order not to reach, but to outrun all those who were 20, 30 years behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8108	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zdravko Topalovic has a word, and let the MP Sreto Peric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8109	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, holding to the agenda, I wanted to ask one question to the resolution ministers. Since membership in the COTIF was suspended in 1992 by imposing sanctions, I want to ask the question of resolute ministers -- what if sanctions are imposed, God forbid, are reintroduced because Serbia eventually does not agree to an unfavourable solution to Kosovo's status. We sign these conventions, we don't say a word about it, those memberships get paid and some membership fees, I think I found in the material somewhere about COTIF that somewhere around 50,000 Swiss, maybe something lower. I want to ask you a question - what in which case, who will suffer the consequences and who will compensate for the economic damage to post office and railways in that case? It's a very serious question. We've had this situation in the 1990s. This is a very serious question. I found nowhere in the Convention, in case of non-compliance with this Convention and suspension of membership to one member, who makes up for the damage. Unfortunately, Minister, I have to give you one remark, if Anna Karen's was our contemporary, she'd probably stay alive and well, and live in Serbia, because she wouldn't wait for that train to end her life.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8110	The word has the People's MP Sreto Peric, and let the MP Milos Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Stanimirovic reminded me earlier that we should advocate to charge the toll. You're absolutely right, I agree, but you remember what happened after that toll charge. But I won't talk about it, it's not the subject of my discussion, I'm going to talk about something else now. I cannot accept the insinuations of some ministers, and Minister Ilic also said during yesterday or today that the National Assembly, i.e. that the MPs of the Republic of Serbia, were guilty of not being more significant. I will not do much for that, but it certainly does not stand – unfortunately some of the MPs, it seems to me to be an authorised representative from the DSS, perhaps he is, although I doubt, guilty and responsible for why this parliament has not sat more frequently and continuously – it is absolutely, respected citizens, not dependent on the MPs. As soon as we receive notice and encouragement, we are in the National Assembly and are working on what is stated on the agenda. However, there are other problems. The inability of ministers, i.e. the president of certain political parties that are partying in power to agree on some issues, is the problem that also bothers the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS is for modern railways and we have the maximum understanding for all employees who, I accept part of the story of Minister Ilic, who said that with special efforts, I would say even the superhuman, employees of Serbia's railways are trying to provide Serbian citizens with better quality services and to do their part of the job professionally and correctly. Do those who operate the railways, those who operate certain ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia do their best to do so? How impractical it is to put five points of the agenda together and unite the debate, and you had no problem because you came to this vote, it also showed yesterday's debate, when we took frequent breaks so that ministers, authorized for certain points, would come to attend, and at this point we do not only have a debate on points relating to Serbia's railways, but we have others, and I do not see ministers from the ministry present. Minister Cvetkovic said borrowing for him is not a problem. That is why SRS MPs study and analyse these proposals in detail, as it is said at the end of these laws that the funds provided for these contracts are in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. To show Serbian citizens what this is about, mostly NS lawmakers spoke affirmatively about Minister Ilic and the need for Serbia's railways to be in charge, to build railways that would allow the speeds that exist in the world, they spoke only in an affirmative manner, and no one opened the proposals of this law, to see what it says there, whether there is a possibility of abuse, or whether there is any danger to Serbian citizens. What do we have to be in charge of? You know that 125m euros per current budget has been allocated to the Serbian Railways, and we respect the need to create additional duties to modernise Serbia's railways, modernise, but see what it says in Section 201, which guarantees this unconditionally as a primary debtor. The Ministry of Finance, or the Republic of Serbia, is guaranteed. The guarantee will not impose any direct or indirect taxes, taxes, fees and other costs of any nature on foreign consultants engaged by the bank or borrower. This is inadmissible for us, dangerous. They will not impose any obligations, no taxes, and if it were business entities from Serbia, there would be a completely different situation. Then what's the interest? The interest is variable. What else is dangerous, or could be dangerous under these laws? The outstanding amounts of the loan would be paid on the basis of the commitment of the funds at a rate of 0.5%. It has been a long time since this parliament has had no responsibility since the moment this treaty was signed, until the moment it is before the MPs, in order to carry out the ratification. There is another problem here, it seems to me that the funds that the railways would like to borrow in order to carry out the necessary work were also foreseen at the time when the community of Serbia-Montenegro was, and these funds are still needed today. Then a legitimate question arises whether the community member was completely neglected in terms of railway development, although you are now talking about the second arm of the Belgrade-Bar railway, but does not stem from what you were talking about, so I fear that this was not one of the reasons why Montenegro was showing interest in leaving this state community. What could happen if we, by adopting and adopting this law, over-indebted the citizens of Serbia? It may happen that we will not have enough funds in the budget of this, next or perhaps in two or three years to pay salaries to employees in health care, in education and in a number of other actions we are obliged to provide funds, and by taking taxes from Serbian citizens we are obliged to provide enough resources to function these segments of society in Serbia. We cannot be absolutely sure that this cannot produce any problem, because you can see how long the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been agreeing on the division of public enterprises in terms of which they will be director, whose board of directors, and you have seen now that DS has launched one thesis that in public enterprises, where the director is from their party, the board of directors must also have a majority, president or perhaps a literally complete board of directors to be from that party. There's no control from another coalition partner. We doubt the functioning of this government, but provided that all those who make up this government at this point are equally involved, that you have the right to control another, it would certainly be less dangerous for the citizens of Serbia. Finally, to conclude, the SRS is for modern and good railways, to help railway employees, but we suspect certain problems might arise here. Ministers, one newspaper yesterday, you ask me which one is "Justice", said there are now 55% of respondents in Serbia who advocate capital punishment in the Republic of Serbia. It's very dangerous and the prime minister of this government needs to know, that should be known by the interior minister, the minister of justice. If a number of citizens in this issue express the need to impose a death penalty in criminal law, it suggests that certain officials have lost confidence, not only have they lost, but they are largely abused by their positions and that therefore Serbian citizens want to be accounted for in one sure unpopular way, even by imposing death sentences. You don't need ministers right away, but I'd like you to answer two questions on this one. You mentioned one thing, though, concrete plans to build the Loznica-Valjevo railway, and it wasn't you, it was long ago started, long ago there was this project. Do you have a dynamic when to access more seriously this construction? And the bridge on the Drina River, which is to a certain extent the local self-government of Ljubovija, where you should and should build that bridge, certain things did, or pre-work, to tell us a few sentences about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8112	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8113	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 87. The Rules of Procedure - members of the Government, authorised representatives of other legislators and secretaries of the Republic Secretariat for Law, as well as other persons who are invited by the President of the National Assembly, participate in meetings of the National Assembly. It is indeed inadmissible, especially incomprehensible by MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia to allow the ministers of Vojislav Kostunica to humiliate the National Assembly in this way. An hour and a half ago, I asked that, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you respect this member of the Rules of Procedure, to call upon the ministers the government has appointed to present here the draft laws. In addition to Mr Velimir Ilic, who sits here, Mr Cvetkovic and Mrs Aleksandra Smiljanic should be here. You didn't tell us you called them, you didn't tell us why they weren't here. I think that such a relationship between the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards this Parliament is really inadmissible and then we wonder why newspapers write about MPs this or that, when we ourselves allow ourselves to be demeaned in this way, to insult the dignity of the National Assembly of Ministers Vojislav Kostunica. I really expect, Mr. Mrkonjic, and I expect Mr. Oliver Dulic, who I suppose is somewhere following this parliament's work, since he obviously has much more far-reaching jobs than he is, I insist, is still a little time until the midday break, we insist that the SRS have all the ministers present in the afternoon work, which we did not ask for, the government has appointed them to be representatives of the government here as a proposing. It's not our will, no whim, simply the government has to send Mr. Cvetkovic, and we know why he won't come here. Not because he knows we're going to ask him whose money he intends to pay possibly 2.5m euros he promised to sell Serbian heads and tell him that people's money can't behave in this way, tell the citizens of Serbia what they can do for that 2.5m euros in Serbia, how many kindergartens, how many new jobs, how much wages they can increase, and tell the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic - there are no more souls to sell in Serbia. Everything that was for sale has already been bought. You were bought by Americans, Soros, Shipari, English, who remained honorable and honest, who will never and will not sell any Serb for any money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8114	Last time you called, I said we called the ministers. The lady has arrived, we are expecting Minister Smiljanic and I hope Mr Cvetkovic. So we've taken action. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Who is the lady?) A newly appointed minister? ) State Secretary at the Ministry. As far as I'm concerned, I've taken all measures. Mr. Ilic sits patiently here and listens. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity, since Minister Ilic is there, why does the state of Serbia not charge road traffickers and profiteers, as thousands and thousands of transporters pass daily and shut off from Smederev highway and cross into northern Serbia, thus jeopardising traffic, burdening traffic and causing enormous damage. According to some estimates, compared to the daily traffic flow from Smederev to Kovin, Panchev, Zrenjanin, Opovo, Kovacica and northern Serbia, billions of dinars remained unpaid. We don't know what the reasons are, why no billing is being charged, why the charge isn't being made when entering our country and what are the reasons that so far the state, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent state authorities have taken no action. That's the part where, believe me, the roads are broken, 30, 40, 50 tons, when the helmets start. It's not a highway, nor a category of highways that can withstand that load. These roads in the northern part of Serbia are being destroyed, and the billing of an international profiteers and smugglers is not being made. It's the government's failure. It's a direct damage to the state. So I ask Mr. Minister, if I'm wrong, that today's answer to this question - is there a possibility and if they pay where they pay, if they don't pay, what part do they not pay? What country in the world do you have to pay for the hearse? You enter the border into one country, you'll pay 50 km, and the other 200 won't, because you'll catch the curve on the side of the road -- no, he has to pay for the road entrance. You can tell from his records he owns, where he comes from, and where he goes. That is why I ask for an answer to this question and I think Minister Ilic will give a valid explanation, whether there are conditions, whether there are legal options and whether the citizens of Serbia, or whether the state is suffering this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8116	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8117	As for Article 226, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in connection with the events and the situation in the railways, which is being debated in the Assembly these days, I was approached by workers of bridge security at the Prepolje station. The average working hours of these workers are about 32 years old. In August 2007, there was separation of a given security sector from the railways and their sales. As a result of such sales, many jobs on this part of the railroad have been cut off. Currently, these same workers are in a difficult economic situation. Workers are not familiar with the working conditions or are offered a social programme, since bridges are inseparable railway facilities and are important for security from danger, and must be kept and respected by railway regulations. They also addressed this high house because these same workers wanted to return to the railways, because they began their working age in the railways, regardless of the difficulties, in which and what situation the railways are in today. I must remind you, Mr. Minister, that you have spoken to the public that no one will be left without a job and that these same workers from one sector to another will be deployed. Retraining and schooling workers, with 32 years of employment, is not realistic and they do not want to participate. Please explain these and similar problems to us, and of course solve them, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8118	I thank Mr. Despotovic. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8119	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8120	Wait, while I've already called the man.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8121	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, and I can't wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8122	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. It's Milos Simonovic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8123	Thank you. Reset your time, buddy. Thank you. Mr. Ilic, I think it is in your interest to try to contact Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, your colleague minister in the Serbian government, to ask him together what Radeta's colleague had recently apostropheeded, but it would be interesting for you to tell us what you think about it. You are the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia who called, the BIA, is called, has made a public ad and urged traitors in Serbia to rat out famous Serbian General Ratko Mladic, Mr Hadzic and Zupljanin, to award awards, Radovan Karadzic and other Serbian heroes, and thus all those people they consider to be helping them. It is the most dishonest act that one man can experience that has the role of a minister to sit with those in the environment, with such, I must say, a gang of traitors, who, in this defiant role of courting Carly del Ponte, who has been directly responsible for the killing of Serbs in The Hague casamat, which is the president of our party, on the justice of God, for five years there. You know, Mr. Ilic, since you told everything yesterday about who he was and when he started with a criminal record by writing a false indictment against our president. It's nice of you to invite your colleague to come, since he laughed so freaked out at the camera two days ago when they started with that ad and invited traitors to do it, and said -- so it's no problem, there's money in the budget, it'll be easy to get rid of it. He says -- I haven't heard of it, but 2.5m euros will be found for the sale of Serbian heroes, Serbian heads. Meanwhile, we have received information that some traitors have reported to the number BIA gave, 9191, in Serbia this morning. They're asking if they pay cash, whether they should pay VAT and stuff like that. I'm ordering all those who, along with the treasonous authority, who are willing to trade like that, to engage in such a thing that I will always have in mind, because of those who facelessly do it and who don't know what they're doing, a picture from a few months ago when we held a promotion of a book by Vojislav Seselj in Batocina. Namely, there came a group of Serbian patriots with shirts with the image of famous Serbian General Ratko Mladic, and despite what it said, "Catch me," it was "little tomorrow". Little tomorrow will happen either in some forgotten place where some AVNOJ session was held back in 1943. You, Mr. Ilic, ask yourself as a Serb, as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what is your role in all of this, what is the role of anyone who supports such treasonous actions in power in search of those who have guarded and defended Serbian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8124	The word is made by MP Milos Simonovic. Is he here? Is Milos Simonovic in the O.R.? It's not. Thank you. I'm taking a break. Here you go. The session will continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8125	We'll continue our afternoon work. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Lidija Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8126	Thank you very much. I signed up for Article 226, so I wouldn't interrupt a two-day debate about the railroad after that. I think what I'm about to say is that it's very important that the citizens of Serbia hear, unless they're familiar, and I don't think they're familiar enough, given that the situation, which is mostly happening in the area of Calemegdan in the zoo, just follows the list -- the magazine "Justice". We could have seen a note somewhere else, but it is my duty, as a man and as an MP, to inform the citizens of Serbia what it is. In fact, for the eighth day, Mr. Vuk Bojovic, the administrative zoo, has been on hunger strike. I join a huge part of Belgrade, not only of Belgrade, but of all citizens of Serbia who support it in their demands. I appeal to the city government not to break and to play no more with the law, not to act Kabadiahian and to allow a man to work, as he has done so far, out of the space he has been working for 22 years. And, of course, that's why he'll stop strikein' hunger. Also, I'm warning the city government, and I hope they're so reasonable that they're gonna put bread back in the hands of the people who took down the kiosks a few days ago. I wonder if in this country we have begun to prove our work, our proper conduct, and our conduct towards the law, by pawning our lives. That's where we came from. So, the zoo is a 55-year social firm, which itself is funded. Mr. Vuk Bojovic, who is the manager of the zoo, for 22 years, has been at the head of the zoo, neatly paying for everything that is state-owned, so land rent, state tax and from one hole, all the Belgraders know, in which we went and who had very few animals and was none, abandoned, has made one truly beautiful zoo, which meets all European standards and is somehow the closest thing for me to compare it with the "Emen" zoo in the Netherlands. So it reminds me very much of that zoo. What's important and what's the key to this is that the attack on the zoo and on the manager of the wolf Boyovic began as soon as "Beko" was sold. For those of you who don't know, Beko is located, or was... It's over. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8127	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Simonovic, not there. Now you can, Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8128	Now I'm going to speed up just the essentials. So the city government is acting Kabadish. Mrs. Krustanovic whenever she wants to modernise something, she destroys it. So the first attack on the zoo was the move of a children's marathon because it estimated that the athletic path wasn't good enough, but after a while, when world athlete Bob Beamon came to the zoo and walked, he realized that the track was excellent and that a children's marathon could be held. However, he earnestly advocates the Bir-fest, which unfortunately ended up as it ended, again with the lack of concern of the city's government. They brought down the people of the kiosks, who did everything according to the law, and they had all the papers except one. If they were kind and wanted to help these people, they'd say what paper was missing, so people would probably find that paper and not move it out. I really wonder if they were the only illegal joints in Belgrade, so they had to move so urgently. So, Mrs. Radmila Hrustanovic and some graduated biologists, who have not yet learned that biology and biology are being written without 'j', are persistently undermining and insisting on destroying both the zoo and Mr. Vuk Bojovic, who has been successfully working and running the area for 22 years. Our great writer and writer, Ljubivove Rsumovic, who went to the zoo and gave Mr. Vuk Bojovic support, said: "The inhabitants of the zoo are the most honest citizens of Belgrade. They didn't steal anything from anyone, they didn't make money on exotic islands, and they don't have any bars at Mirievska Market." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8129	Thank you. counterpart Momir Markovic is not here either. The word is Milovan Markovic, a National MP, and neither is he. Then Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today it is not necessary to be an expert in the area of rail traffic in order to understand the position of the Railways of Serbia: the ruined, abandoned railway stations, railways and railways at the most condition the introduction of so-called. light driving, so that the time of the train travel is increased multiplely compared to the scheduled order of driving. Locomotives are small and in poor condition, daily departures of passenger trains in different directions due to lack of locomotives and passenger cars are cancelled. The means of communication have worn out, and the condition of the security devices is in a similar state. The number of highly skilled personnel does not exceed 3%, and they are deployed to executive jobs, mostly political. Railway employees' salaries are at least all public enterprises, not stimulating employees to make a maximum contribution to work. In light of the Law on Railways, which in the process of adoption and adoption in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS had numerous objections and submitted a large number of amendments, further made it difficult to place the railway. For example, a public undertaking or a manager may suspend public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure or part of a railway infrastructure where public transport of passengers and goods is not profitable, with the consent of the Government. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Local Self-Government Units may, in certain relations in the public transport of passengers and goods in rail transport, establish a transport undertaking, which the carrier, if it took into account its commercial interests, would not take over or would not assume on the same scale and under the same conditions. In such a case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the units of local self-government is obliged to make up for the difference between the established price by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the local self-government unit and the justified cost of transport. Now I ask the question, which unit of local self-government, any municipalities of any city, can in its budget allocate funds for such purposes, if the driver suspends public transport of passengers and goods to a certain part of the railway infrastructure, and the local self-government unit needs that transport? Of course, none of that can. Therefore, no suspension of the public transport of passengers on individual routes is publicly announced, but train departures on a daily basis are cancelled. I will give you examples that I am familiar with as an MP from Nis, on Nis-Kurzumli and Nis-Dimitrovgrad passenger trains almost do not traffic, and certainly there is a need for such traffic. Today's law proposals concerning Serbia's railway issues will not solve these problems. From the explanation of one of the laws offered, it is clear that the purpose for loan users will be guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, the Railway Reconstruction Project - two, explains: "The reasons for the adoption of the law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, signed 8. 12. In 2006, in Belgrade, they are contained in the fact that the European Investment Bank is ready to grant an 80m-euro loan for the reconstruction of the priority railways in Corridor 10 and the purchase of vehicles and equipment. ''So, lenders only care about the main directions, translate as many passengers as possible, and as much goods as possible under the most favourable conditions, means, quickly, efficiently and cheaply. They will give money, the railways or the state of Serbia will pay it back with the right interest. So no one gives us anything. And then the built-up infrastructure will make use of the route. We'll have a situation to watch how for small money on the railway infrastructure, which we built ourselves, because the loan is returned to God, the beating of other people's trains without retention and processing, and our problems will remain the same. How are things today? With the party directors of the Serbian Public Enterprise, with ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, such as Djelic, Velimir Ilic, Mladjan Dinkic, Djilas and others, with the party governor of the National Bank of Serbia, involved in numerous affairs, with this whole government of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS is not ready to support these laws, which Serbia is in charge of, and all the poor citizens of Serbia are returning. Serbia's citizens should be reminded of affairs related to Serbia's Railways, which relate to imports of electric trains from Sweden, locomotives from Slovenia, a repair of 1,000 wagons, the acquisition of turning points, where general director Milenko Sarancic and Minister Velimir Ilic were involved. I note this because it has also worked for UBOPK to determine the legality of these jobs, but the official report is still missing or in one of the working tables of the participants in the affair. Even the Prime Minister is silent about all these affairs, although all these affairs have been published in all means of information. Countless times, since October 5th, when Dosovci, who now rule the Republic of Serbia, came to power, were deceived, so that we could trust them now. The more you promise, the more you offer Europe, the worse the citizens of Serbia are. There are more and more workers on the streets, more and more young, capable and educated people leaving Serbia and leaving the country forever. You just can't be trusted. And finally, I need to remind you of Section 2.01 of Section 2, a guarantee of the Law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of the Railways of Serbia, a means of driving, which says: "The guarantee (and this is the Republic of Serbia) guarantees this unconditionally, as a primary debtor, and not only as a guarantee, duly and timely payment of all amounts payable under the Loan Treaty, either according to that maturity, by means of acceleration or by any other basis, and the timely execution of all other commitments of the Borrower, and all as stated in the Loan Treaty. Are you capable and willing to guarantee something unconditionally? We Serbian radicals think you are not capable of providing citizens with a minimum of existence. But who knows, you might succeed, but that's why you'll peel the citizens of Serbia off their backs. Lucky it won't last much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8131	The word is made by MP Milan Vukovic. He's not here. Then the People's Messenger, Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before my presentation, I would only like to give an explanation, because the president of the Transport and Communications Committee, Mr Vladan Vukicevic, said that this package of laws was unanimously accepted on the Transport Committee. I am a member of this committee, but I would like to remind the public that the members of the SRS Committee do not participate in the work of this committee for a known reason, because we believe that the chairman of the board cannot be from a party from which he is a minister. So we don't participate in the work of this committee and I want to make it public. Let's get back to the agenda. On the agenda is a set of laws regarding rail and mail, two of which are related to the economy and two to the technique. The basic postulate of developed capitalism today is that it is necessary to provide the best conditions for the equal competition of all or the same goods of different producers, regardless of the location of the manufacturer or the buyer. To that end, in all capitalist states, especially those with a large area of territory, are forced as cheaply as possible and as fast as possible. Therefore, it is not by chance that the most common railways and mail are the basic carriers of state-owned goods and that they work with a loss or at the limit of profitability. Road transport of goods is strongly stimulated by cheap fuel for trucks as commercial vehicles, and the owners of passenger vehicles pay high fuel prices for these vehicles and various road charges. With the rapid spread of the EU, these facts are becoming more and more significant in Europe, which, due to a marked lack of energy, ore and other necessary raw materials or semi-factories, is indeed forced to forcely force the export of its goods, mainly high-grade goods. It is therefore very important that the cheaper and faster the transport of goods, the much north-west-Southeast towards Asia and partly to Africa. As Serbia is in the basic direction of northwestern traffic, Corridor 10, it does not surprise Serbia's strong pressure to modernise Serbia's railways as much as possible. The empty and naive effects of threats that an alternative to Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria could be used, and from a professional point of view, the alternative is absolutely unacceptable because of a very unacceptable geographical configuration, particularly mountainous land, which would add much to the construction of that direction. With these bill proposals we are considering today, Serbia is obliged, among other things, to enable relatively fast rail traffic, at speeds of 120 to 160km per hour on some of its railway routes, mainly in Corridor 10. If the current state of rail infrastructure in Serbia is analysed today, it does not surprise a reasonable conclusion that the implementation of the programme would involve very large financial resources, almost as if a brand new railway infrastructure were being built. Even when considering significantly smaller projects, it is necessary to carry out a series of conflicting professional feasibility analyses, i.e. rentability. The project should and could only be accepted if these analyses show that the bone-benefit ratio is at a positive zero. It has also been shown without detailed analysis that the price for Serbia is huge. The question is, what's the benefit? Serbia's territory is relatively small and the transition from the current average speed of rail traffic in Serbia to about 60km per hour on a project of an average speed of 120m or even 160km per hour would mean a difference of 10m or slightly more hours of transport, even in case of transportation from one end of Serbia to another. During the duration of the railway transport in Serbia, the time of manipulative work, ransacking, train formation and so on, so that it is necessary to seek a significant reduction in the time of rail transport. That is why Serbia's direct high-speed benefit almost does not exist, especially if it compares to the huge price of the project. I have some questions for Mr. Secretary, so I hope he'll be back soon. The second possible benefit for Serbia would be charged tariffs for the passage of "European trains" through Corridor 10. Most of the EU's rail trains, which use their wagons, would not have been much more of a overload through Serbia, so services would be reduced to eventually pulling and serving railway infrastructure. This benefit cannot be particularly large, but it should be assessed through a number of professional technology and economic studies. It is very likely that the price at the annual level, which is the service of the financial debt used for the implementation of this project, etc., would be many times higher than Serbia's most optimal expectation of benefits. It's very unusual, perhaps it's not an accident, a commission, etc., that in such a expensive project goes both with closed eyes, without any analysis. This looks like the famous affairs "Sartid", cements, sugarcanes, etc. It is clear that the price of this project, but for the EU, is very large, especially if the maximum optimisation of rail transport to Corridor 10 is carried out. So one very serious proposal would be to adopt the people's wisdom expressed through a famous proverb - who itches, to scratch it. Let the rich EU take over the costs of building the necessary infrastructure. It is certain that they would hire our companies, at least as subcontractors, only a few top managers would be involved on their side. It is possible to take a quick look at the bar basic elements of the price of the proposed project. In order to ensure the required speeds of rail transport, 120 to 160 kilometers per hour, most of the infrastructure would have to be built again: funding, rash, railing, etc. The fast train can't stand the curve of a small radius, so the track itself in many places would have to change. Since the resistance to each movement grows at least with a gear square, the necessary power consumption for the tow would be significantly higher. So we'd have to build new power lines, trafostations, stronger trolls, etc. For higher speeds, the existing signalling, automation and telecommunications should also be modernised. Once again, it should be pointed out that a comprehensive technical and economic analysis is necessary for the eventual adoption of such a project, so it is really unserious, harmful and irresponsible in the proposed way to approach the adoption of this project. There are many affairs to be remembered again. Are there any commissions here, too? I'm sure it is. Since the urgent implementation of this project is of great importance to the rich EU, it is certain that the EU would quickly accept that it is financing the proposed railway infrastructure, and Serbia's role comes to a very profitable service service, with correct compensation, at the cost of an equivalent working time in the EU. It is absolutely clear that after a short-term "trouble" the EU would accept that it is financing the proposed project. Now, let me remind you, a little while ago, in a very different configuration of forces, they paid for the entire construction of a dam on Gerdap, necessary for the full validation of the Rayna-Maine channel, i.e. transport corridor for water transport west-east. In the event of such a solution, only planned commissions are in danger. So, corrupters, don't give yourself away, it's big prey. I have one question for Mr. Minister, I hope the secretary will pass on this question -- is a million-euro bank guarantee, passed by the Canadian-Cyprus firm Trigranit as a confirmation that he will conclude a contract with the Serbian railway on the construction of the Prokop station, forgiven? Trigranite, to remind you, under the tender conditions he had to sign a final contract with the railways by the end of September last year, but he didn't. So, September 30th was the deadline until the administration of this public enterprise had to demand a one-million-euro guarantee payment. Did the railway director, Milanko Sarancic, then agree to Cyprus's request not to extend the guarantee? This damaged his company by a million euros, when a deal with the Trigranite eventually failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8133	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vladan Batic answered, and then Mr Vladan Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I'm advocating a violation of Article 226. Here's the thing. From the same pay phone he referred the question to the minister of justice - whether he would do something about insisting on his previous counterpart in the White Church municipal prosecutor's office to post-poly initiate criminal proceedings against Stefan Cvetkovic, the owner of an independent radio-television "TNT" from the White Church, who re-discovered, remember that affair with a police officer in the White Church who sucks heroin and independent of that, some financial malfeasance, machination and abuse of people in the local government in the White Church. That's what I learned on October 1st this year, after DHSS opened its headquarters in the White Church, which was attended by local television, which is, I guess, normal. The next day I took it out for this pay phone. What happened after that? Since I received an e-mail from Mr. Stefan Cvetkovic, on the next day seven members of the MUP in civilian, with some magic warrant, have entered the premises of TN TV in the White Church, have spent three hours searching, some sort of turmoil, and, having found nothing, and several hundred citizens have already gathered in front of the television, have asked the owner of the television if they are happy with Cedomir Jovanovic, Vladan Batic, Nenado Canka and Beba Popovic and whether he knows who these people are, what their intentions are and why they sometimes come to the White Church, etc. So this time I ask the Minister of the Interior to answer the question -- how long will the target be people who fight for the truth, who reveal abuses in local government, financial nature, which are committees from his party; how long will the police be abused, because he has made public what certain local police are doing? Apparently, those who were sent were not from the White Church but somewhere on the side, so even a statement was attempted through their centre in Panchev, that, allegedly, against the owners of television had been filed for some financial abuses, so they were more or less withdrawn, etc. Is this the European Serbia we should reach, among other things, and the high-speed railways?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8135	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Vukicevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8136	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, and I've been encouraged by the discussion of the previous SRS speaker to come forward and say something. It is true that the SRS is not involved in the Committee's work. It's her legitimate right. Personally, I think he should be involved in the work of the board, because there is much that can be changed on committees, and as one MP put it, the Assembly Hall is an arena. It doesn't make sense for me to participate in the arena without participating in the committee's work. But it's every party's right and I'm not getting involved in it. What's inappropriate for me is for the MP to come out and say that these maltenes are inconclusive, pest projects and that these are just projects for some commission and -- corrupters, fight, it's big prey. You see, she has the right of the SRS to consider that nothing in the state should modernize and bring her into a better condition. It's the right of one party. Personally, I don't think this is an SRS position, that this is still the attitude of one MP, because don't think that no one has now done a project analysis, that this is an unwarranted project and that Serbia doesn't need modernisation, that some time goes by, as the MP said, ten hours through Serbia, should be amortised by organising yourself to have faster loading, unloading or cargo of goods. I think it's funny to the citizens of Serbia, funny to serious people who know something and follow some trend, and they want, in the end, to fix a situation. That's more than funny. What I'm absolutely sure of is that the MP needs to know that our railways, not only for ten hours, as he said, but you have a problem, comes to you with a modern locomotive that goes 120 or 160 kilometers, and now needs to be driven by Serbia 40 kilometers. On the other hand, you now have your locomotive that needs to get out and into the next country, and you have a diesel, you have to put it up there and it's a boot. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to say that an analysis of these projects has been done, that the international community has done an analysis, that our experts have been doing an analysis and that this is necessary for Serbia, to modernise rail traffic, especially this Corridor 10, which connects Southeast Europe. I think it's extremely incorrect for someone to respect some honesty here, talk about corruption, and all because of the regret that he can't participate, I guess, in that corruption. We're not interested here, nor are we thinking about corruption and percentages. Those who think about percentages, I think they have the wrong attitude for the future. We are thinking that Serbia should be an integral part of modern Europe, we are thinking about having to have modern rail communication, modern rail, and that, in the end, Serbia has something to raise and praise, that at a time interval it has managed to do something for respect, and that all of this allows for a better and more perspective life for Serbian citizens, of course, and to create jobs. That's what's important. We're fighting for these young people who are out of work. This is one of the opportunities to get a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8137	Right on line, colleague Milosav Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8138	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to clarify two things. The first thing is about congregation committees. Therefore, it is not true that the SRS does not participate in the assembly committees. He participates there, I was clear, where the minister is not from the same party as the chairman of the board. A third of the members of the Transport Committee are not involved in the work of the Committee, and these are the MPs of the SRS, whose member I am. That's the first one, Mr. Vukevic. Secondly, as far as technique is concerned, I have nothing to do with you, I'm an engineer, you're a doctor, a dentist, and I can't talk about that technology, but the technique I was talking about, I don't want to de-commit with you. As far as commissions are concerned, I've been informed of the Serbian government's website. I get into the Serbian government website, I type in the Ministry of Capital Investment, and I get everything I ask for. Since you asked for the devil, you'll get it now. I will now read by the end of the session everything written on the Serbian government website and in newspapers from which I, as an opposition MP, also inform myself. To begin with: on 14 September 2006, it reads: "The fall of the government of Zoran Zivkovic leaves the leading set of Serbia's railways. The arrival of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the creation of the Ministry of Capital Investments, with Minister Velimir Ilic headed, creates a new leadership of this public enterprise, and Ilic personally appoints the first man Milanko Sarancic, until then unknown public, a successful host, who had no business with the railway. Similarly, he was appointed director of procurement Svetozar Manojlovic, who until then had a joint venture with Brother Velimir Ilic Vojislav, the current president of the Municipality of Cačak. Such a traditional package of rail leadership summits guaranteed that, even if it was responsible for Minister Ilic, everything would flow without major earthquakes, and the minister believed in them. A big job is coming to reconstruct a thousand wagons, announced as a job that will fix the "image" of railways, to do household business and everything in that sense". The job gets the Irons from Smeder, the daughter of the ZTP firm, which unfortunately... Please, seven and a half minutes ago the speaker spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8139	It's not. I didn't stop time, that's what I was counting on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8140	Then I report back to the Rules of Procedure. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8141	You'd better get back to me. The word is from the MP Slobodan Maraš, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8142	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Minister, I have reported to you regarding the violation of Rule 100 of this Rules of Procedure. Mr President, the previous MP earlier said that the MP before him, a New Serbia member and member of the ruling coalition, spoke for seven and a half minutes. You've commented that you haven't stopped time. Whether you stopped him or not, if we'd added up before, that's a lot more than what's allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8143	A colleague spoke for three minutes and 20 seconds. I was measuring, but I wasn't hitchhiking in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8144	I just wanted to remind you that the other day Mr. Dulic, president of this assembly, once he came by this hall, said everyone would have to follow the Rules of Procedure, or Article 100, and that they would have to leave the pay phone after three minutes. (President: That's right. If I can finish. I would ask that you too stick to it, that all MPs should have the same effect, not only that MPs of the ruling coalition can speak for longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8145	According to the Rules of Procedure, Col. Milickovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8146	So, "the job gets the Irons," which at that point owed the state over 400 million dinars in the name of tax liabilities. But life goes on. A tender for reconstruction of the famous 1,000 wagons has never been announced, although it was a huge job. There's a real little drama going on, 'cause Iron Man can't do his own gift job. Under still unclear circumstances, real contractors come along, as business bearers appear Director General Milanko Sarančić, his deputy, Predrag Vukadinović, a former julavian, with seven criminal charges on his shoulders, Svetozar Manojlovic, director of the procurement sector, brought directly by the minister from Cačka. "According to the source I'm reading now," his only motive was to take an apartment from the ZTP no less than 100 square meters. At the moment of giving such a big deal, ZTP Belgrade owes "Zelvos" to Smedereva over 100 million dinars. Many wondered why ZTP Belgrade does not settle the debt through eight thousand tonnes of old iron, when it is known that the price of this goods on the market in Serbia and outside Serbia is more than favourable. The construction of the payment of this job goes on via "Shinvoz" from Zrenjanin, where the main philosopher of the financial operation Novica Davidovic, the same man who damaged ZTP Belgrade's ZTP by several million euros in the reconstruction of 200 wagons in his former company. The team then included Branko Skendzic, former director of the procurement sector, and Slobodan Rosic, former CEO of Zoran Zivkovic's government. There is no tender for the reconstruction of 1,000 wagons, the large capital business of Velimir Ilic. Why is it that, if the selected daughter of the company is already a business carrier, a direct payment of the debt mentioned in the old iron in the amount of eight thousand tonnes has not been made? Whether or not the type of iron is known and why it was not bids for such a large quantity and value, if it is 10m euros, it was all done with a simple contract. How is it that Shinvoz from Zrenjanin, owed about 80m dinars by ZTP, gives a twom-euro unambiguous advance for transport, with a limited transport price for who knows how long the period is. This and other issues have never been clarified in public." I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8147	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I have a question for the president of the Assembly, who, just like me and the other vice presidents, received a letter yesterday from Gjilan from Gjilan from the chairman of the Management Board of the Gjilana Health Centre Mr Bozidar Peric and Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Slobodan Samardzic. I must remind you, I will make a brief introduction, that a month ago, when I announced to the public that an honorary officer, Colonel of the Serbian Army, was on the hunger strike in the village of Šilovo, next to Gjilan, due to the infamous activities of Dr Milorad Todorovic, a member of the DSS. He was, I remind you, the first Cypriot minister, or Serbian minister in the Shiptar government -- is that not the same, to underline the sign of equality -- who has been harassing, burning and burning Kosovo Pomoravlje for years and who was the head of the Kosovo-Pomorava County, and that for years we have talked from the assembly speaker about his numerous abuses and machinations, the kidnapping of money, especially through the then Co-ordination Centre, which Nebojsa Covic led. I asked the DSS leadership to explain to me, any of them, that's where Mr. Ilic was then Minister Jocic, vice president of the DSS, who is protecting this criminal? A man who does not work for the interests of Serbs, but for the interest of Shipara, and that is what every man in this hall knows, anyone who has any connection and connection with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. The reactions were such that people called me for days, unknown people, texting, thanking each other, from New Hill,lock, from Shilov, I can't remember anymore, but no one reacted. What's going on? Yesterday, Mr. Peric sent us a letter asking us, from the National Assembly, from the president and vice president, to protect the doctors at Gjilana Health Centre from the ossion and arrogant behaviour of DSS member Milorad Todorovic. Because the Management Board, which numbers 20 members of the Gjilana Health Centre, has been succeeded by the previous one to elect the Director of the Health Center for a four-year term. They did so in accordance with the law and their powers. They chose Dr. Jelica Krčmarevic, I apologize for the fact that this fax has arrived, if that's not the name of the doctor. However, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, led by Minister Slobodan Samardzic, whose adviser is a member of the DSS, I end up, Mr. Djudjevic, this Milorad Todorovic threatens the Health Centre, all employees, and Mr. Bozidar, Perić, and Dr. Jelica Krčmarevic, to annul her choice because she is not at the will of Todorovic. Todorovic is a UNMIK and KFOR occupier, only in the role they have given him, and legitimacy, the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Samardzic. What do you want now? To start the entire Health Center to strike or I don't know what to do, to sit on a bus and I don't know how to choose the day when their free passage is and when they're put into God's hands, and to come to Belgrade to strike in front of the government, to look for Samardzic. At the same time, I'm finishing up Mr. Juddjevic, because you should have also come out by this memo, and Mr. Dulic, and every vice president, and ask these from the DSS, wait, which is what you keep that criminal more in your ranks. Who is this man? How can he play with people's fates? Is he in charge there? What is he? (President: I thank you. ) You thank me and it's nice that you thank me, you just to dump me and not to use any more time. I'm looking for a concrete answer, the right to tell you. Because these people demand, like all businessmen from Kosovo and Metohija, that's the second letter I received, addressed to me, because you chose them from the register of businessmen. These people, who have been disproved, who know that the state must protect them, because it has made commitments under Resolution 1244, it only needs to be declared that you are talking about Kosovo and Metohija, about protecting Serbs, and you see what they are doing to me. To help me illustrate how Tadic and Kostunica do not care about Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the Messenger of Kosovo and Metohija send him, and they say -- he was Boris Tadic, February 13, 2005, so they say -- please stay there, without you, we do not exist. Of course they don't exist, because the state doesn't care about them. They are left in a self-occupied area, and you choose from the DSS, how much tomorrow, call Kostunica, call Samardzic, stop this arrogant behavior of Todorovic and inform us that such a criminal, one of many, has been released from his ranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8149	The word has a folk MP, Radovan Milovankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8150	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a united debate on these points once again shows that there is no real desire to recognize the problems and then start to solve the problem. The proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing a high performance rail network in Southeast Europe states in its first article: "The purpose of this agreement is to implement a high performance network in Southeast Europe for passenger, goods and intermodal traffic offering faster, better quality and more competitive rail connections with significantly reduced times (in particular I stress this) of travel between key urban and commercial centres. ''So, the emphasis is given on the reduction of time, which is important, and the journey between city and commercial destinations. The time parameter is defined in a strange way in the ministry chaired by Mr Ilic. I'm saying this for almost two years because you've been accessing and reconstructing the Stalac - Kruševac railway. The 12km-long railway began to be reconstructed on November 5th 2005. She's been put into freight traffic these days, she's not a passenger, and the question is when will she be? What does this matter? In the first half of the last century, the Kruševac - Vronjačka Banja railway was built in a shorter time, and the length of 35 km is about three times longer than this track was supposed to be reconstructed. Another problem arises in the reconstruction of this section of the railway is the economy of Kruševec. The Kruševec economy, i.e. goods and products produced in production, made a journey of more than 200 km, bypassed, only for reasons of slow reconstruction of this railway. The damage to the Rasin economy is yet to be measured, because the full sense is that time is money. For this reason, individual companies were not competitive, or not in a privileged position, but in a subordinate position. The network of railway axles listed in the annex attached does not foresee any activity on the line Požega - Kraljevo - Kruševac - Stalać. That's what a fellow NS MP just recognized as a problem. Right, that problem exists. For what? It's a real question, because it wasn't about the attractiveness of this network. I purposely say attractiveness, aware that it may not have been able to enter this project. Which is why it is not working and does not approach the attractiveness of this part of the network, given that this horizontal axis, by its natural potential, represents Serbia's vessel. The resources of water, forests and agricultural products would certainly be more accessible to the market. You yourself have said, Mr. Ilic, that the railroad suffers from a small commercial speed of up to 60 km per hour. It should be said that this link would practically connect three plums: the Adriatic, the Aegean and the Black Sea plums. In this way, not only would a balanced regional development be respected, for which you are so warmly advocated, but the products, or goods, that are made in Zlatiborska, Moravička, Rasinsko and Rasko County would be more competitive. This is how the other signatories of this document were thinking. I will remind you that Croatia has an interest, so Budapest-Zagreb-Rijeka to join Zagreb - Maribor - Grac, and we had no interest in connecting Požega and Stalać. It's a weird way to explain how this is supposed to be signed. Speaking of the Rasinski district I come from, from Kruševac, Mr. Ilic, your ministry was tasked with making an honest distribution of the house in the village of Bogdanje after the rink appeared. Question and finding - how far did it get with the problem? 18 houses were moved in, the categorization was done by the municipal headquarters and the government's co-ordination body, they were not properly synchronised, agreed, so that the problem was escalated, there was a hunger strike in four families who moved into houses that, according to the documents we have, belonged to. These days, more specifically yesterday, their warrant arrived to get to 23. 10, so on the 23rd of this month, under the threat of forced execution, they moved out of these four houses. You're familiar with that problem. I will remind you, on 3 May, when the Co-ordination Body was ambushed, a decision was made to provide homes for all families in this endangered area. They also had a promise to move in from Mrs. Aleksandra Damnjanovic, if I'm not mistaken. And a good example of how it can be done is an example of the SRS, which just built a house of 115 square feet [115 sq m] upstairs in Bogdanje. lot number 26 and gave it to a multi-member family for use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8151	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8152	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, after the release of the MPs of the SRS Parliament club, I wouldn't talk much about Serbia's railways as Serbia's railways, how fast trains are, what is the situation on the rails, the signalling, the crossings and so on, but I will look back at what you have been telling us here that there is no railing of Serbia, nor corruption, nor crime. I'll introduce you to a company, which is Shinvos from Zrenjanin, which is 120 years old and worked until about half a year ago. For your information, Mr. Minister, Shinvos is a company specializing in remonting all types of rail vehicles. This applies to locomotives, shinobuses, electric trains, diesel and motor trains. More importantly, it is one firm in Serbia, in fact the only firm in Serbia that is performing a refurbishment of a maneuver diesel and an electrolocomotive. It can't be said that this isn't important for this topic that's today. Normally, this company was around 900 employees by 2004. By privatising in 2004, there were about 470 workers left, so that today it might count about 200. It was bought by Mr Nebojsa Ivkovic, who otherwise bought "Jugopapir" Belgrade. Mr. Jeftovic was appointed as director, with the agreement of Mr. Sarancic. It wouldn't be too controversial, it wouldn't be amazing, but that company's starting to cut cars. That's where the car's being cut by the workers of Shinvoz. The wagons are bought from the Serbia Railways, at a price of between 9 and 10 cents per kilogram, dragged, cut and sold by Zenica Žezari. That's not the problem either, the problem is the bigger one. The workers of Shinvoss intersect, even the deaths of these shops, sold to Jelizari, and the money goes to the jury account of TTC Logistics, does not go to the jury account of Shinvosa Zrenjanin. These workers worked, cut those wagons, and from that, Shinvos had no use, and automatically, the workers didn't have any pay. There was also one scrap of old iron from Valjev. Mr. Minister, by downloading from Ivkovic Shinvoz in 2004, in 2005, they were stripped of about 20% and no one explained why and how. In 2006, the same thing was done and was removed from their salaries 20-30%, and in 2007 they did not make any contracts for the work of Shinvos, no contract was made. However, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you, and you will answer me in writing, I hope, and this would also be a parliamentary question. How did the purchase of 50 locomotives from the Serbia Railways, who owns these locomotives and what happens to them? These locomotives are located, one part within the circle of Shinvoz Zrenjanin, in Nis, Zajecar, Lapovo, Belgrade, the King. Just for information, if they're bought 10 dinars a kilo, one, all depends on the series, weighs 60 to 120 tons. Is it possible to fix these locomotives? It's 50 locomotives, and they're in these destinations that I've already said for two years. Mr. Minister, on Friday 12 October, a commission list was carried out by the court of machinery and rolling stock for sale and payment to creditors in Shinvos Zrenjanin, where the main creditors, as I said, are TTC Logistic and Kargo transport. Here is another involvement of Mr. Sarančić, director of Jeftovic and owner of Ivkovic, who managed to bring 900 jobs to a giant, who was the only firm in Serbia that specializes in remonting manoeuvren diesel and electrologous. Should this company now be destroyed, then Serbia's locomotives are sent to a remont somewhere in Romania, to Arad, or should this company be placed on healthy feet, see who is what and how it is involved and once prevents the crime that simply entered that company. Let me remind you, ministers, workers who have remained in Shinvoz Zrenjanin since March of this year are not getting paid. Many leave, every day there are fewer and fewer, and as I said in 2007 contracts by Jeftovic, Ivkovic has no Ivkovic and there is only one downfall ahead of him, going bankrupt, and then the creditors charge, and yet it is the company that has been transferred to the car, the old iron, TTC Logistic and Kargo transport.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8153	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8154	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I can hardly believe what the Serbian government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are up to, and therefore I call on the National Assembly president to, as in the case of yesterday or the day before when Natasa Jovanovic pointed out one act, to decide that we will continue and what we will do. Namely, from the Ministry of Youth and Sports, from the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence, I received a letter informing me that the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Republic of Serbia and the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence, Sonja Licht, are calling on the SRS to participate in the work of the advisory committee of youth of political parties to be involved in the constructive process of developing a National Strategy for Youth. On the left hand side, the signing of the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Republic of Serbia, Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, minister, and on the right hand side of the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence, Sonja Licht, president. You're really humiliating this country. Sonja Licht is now in charge of developing a national strategy for young people, and the ministry is serving her to cover this development of a national strategy for young people. The advisory committees are being formed, there are six of them. One is the Advisory Committee of Youth NGOs, the other is the Advisory Committee of political parties, the Third Advisory Committee of Local Authorities, the Fourth Advisory Committee of the Economic Sector, the Fifth Advisory Committee of the Media and the Sixth International Organisations and Donors. Well, Mr. Minister, who's going to defend this country if you government let Sonja Licht make us a national youth strategy? Now I appeal to you as a man who loves this Serbia, doesn't always know how to behave, but you always love it, I can't hide it. Do you know that this minister, who worked at the Embassy of Norway in Belgrade as a clerk, went from there to our embassy in Norway as an official, came from there as assistant minister of defence, left for Minister of Youth and Sports, as Bora Schneider had an extremely good developmental path, do you agree that this colleague of yours is doing this for Serbia's youth in co-operation with Sonja Licht? If you agree, don't come to the Assembly again, 81 MP radicals will speak against you. If you're not, here, we're interrupting the railway debate. Just get out here and say this is a disgrace to Serbia. Sonja Licht makes a national strategy for young people. Who is she, whose arm is she? If you, as the man who built hundreds and hundreds of miles of roads, fixed so many cars, disagreed with this, Mr. Minister, we'll stop the debate. If it's all right with you, then you're in that mask, you're like a man who introduces himself to a patriot, in fact, in a trap they set for you, because they need a minister like that. If they are all their ministers, they cannot deceive all Serbian citizens. So they also need Minister Velimir Ilic, who will introduce himself differently in Serbia and be silent when they go after young people, because these are the young ones who are going to kidnap our children. Now I just realize how she got to be Minister for Youth and Sports. Someone would say "insignificant" to the ministry. No, but most importantly, more important than both the railways and the roads. What about the young, that's our future. If we have good youth, they can walk. If we don't, they're free to be driven by trains 100 miles an hour. If we hand them over to traitors and bandits, it's all in vain, Mr. Minister. You have children, I don't believe your child would participate in this or I don't know you very well. There are those in this hall who would like to do this, but the vast majority of Serbian citizens will be crushed. We now seem to have stopped this action in the Assembly, escaped from 81 SRS MPs, what she failed the other day and said - she moved to the City Assembly. We and there have 30 and some councilmen. So, I'm ordering Sonja Licht -- wherever she appears, from now on she'll have a chance to talk to Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8155	The word has a People's MP, Milorad Buha, and let the MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8156	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, instead of today discussing a national strategy for the development of rail economy and system in general, which should include a real analysis of the existing state, measures and activities to overcome this situation, identify the parameters relating to the modernisation and electrification of the system, determine what we can reconstruct, what we can do with existing means of transport, how financially consolidate the rail system and the railway economy, we are only considering segments of that system. It's not just in this area. It's in other areas. When a national development strategy is established, it is recommended by the concept of Europe, you stand for Europe, they do it for 20 or even 50 years, then there is no deviation from that national strategy. It is binding, including for ministers, and when we do not have it, then ministers go after Serbia and promise, and Minister Ilic, and Djilas, and Dinkic, and almost everyone else who comes to Serbia. There is even an anecdotes that rule the Serbian government, they say, for three days we've been in Serbia, we've made a lot of promises, we can't do much, because the financial structure of our budget that the particular ministry has, because the demands are huge, and they're easy to promise. The wishes are great citizens, and then you drop a certain promise and then we have to get out and do what we promise. We today have two legislative projects on the agenda relating to the confirmation of the guarantee agreement. We have to say they're anti-constitutional, we're only talking about contracts, and we're against the law. They're against the law because they're violating this country's legal system. The Law on Bond Relations and the Law on Public Debt say these contracts are strictly formal, that these are contracts of a commercial legal nature which have clearly established form. The guarantee agreements, proposed here, were signed by former Minister Dinkic. I'm sure the legal department hasn't considered these contracts, and they're the opposite. Now I'm going to try to explain. Namely, the Bond Relations Act, in Articles 1083 to 1088, clearly states what the contract and the legal nature of the guarantee contract look like. What is important is that it is almost 30 years old, the latest, or newer, date is the 2005 Public Debt Act, which says in Article 20 that the payment of the obligation made by the Republic is due. The next member says the payment of the obligation to perform for the Republic unless the debtor executes it. When we see and read the proposal for this bill to confirm the guarantee agreement, we see all the other provisions. In Article 2, Section 2.01. A guarantee, he says, "I guarantee this unconditionally guarantees, as a primary debtor... ''So, the Law on Liabilities and the Law on Public Debt clearly states - that these are formal contracts, that the contracts in which the guarantee comes forward as a second call, not as a first caller, and also in one law and in another, it is said that it is the primary debtor, and not only as a guarantee. It is contrary to the law and it is not disputed in both law and law. When the government and the resolution ministry defined themselves as reforming rail transport, they went into normative activity. The railroad law has been passed. A decision was made by the government to form a public enterprise, a railway agency. However, there are several other laws that are not innovative, but the legislator has to, or the government and the resolution ministry must change them, which are- the Law on Safety in Railway Traffic and the Law on Contracts in Railway Traffic, which must be innovated because they are overcome, because they do not meet all the standards required by the EU and the modern law relating to the railways. When we talk about economic indicators and economic aspects, we have to say that our railroad is a big loser right now. In 2006, a loss of 7.2 billion dinars was achieved. It's not just this year, it's a longer period of time. It's probably going to continue with this trend. The funds we get from these two loans will certainly do nothing in the field of security of financial resources that we can recover from the existing situation. Minister, when it enters the projection, we need to see, record and analyze economic and financial indicators. I'm not sure you made them at the Ministry. If you receive some 140m euros through these loans, it is about one year of subsidies from the state to improve the existing system and maintain the existing rail economy system. Since the withdrawal of these funds doesn't go on at the same time, it doesn't go on at once, it goes on more wars, when we break it down to about 12, 13 years, how much we're going to withdraw these funds, then we get negligible amounts of ten million euros. My suggestion is -- don't get into this kind of financial withdrawal because they're too expensive, because they're long-term, because they're uncertain and with a lot of conditions. It's only due to time that I point to two or three conditions, but you can see that there are dozens of conditions. In a formal and legal sense, it's unacceptable from the aspect of our legal system. You can't make a guarantee contract conditional - we can't let that happen. Those with the conditions provided for in Article 2, Section 2.03, enter even our organization, into our system, condition a certain policy in this area, etc., which is inadmissible from the aspect of our legal system. In the end, it's my suggestion -- don't accept it, it's extremely unacceptable for us to go into debt like this. But if we know that we didn't allow banks from Russia, from China, banks from Japan, then we have these kinds of blackmails. This is a blackmail loan, this is a loan with terms you will-not. We accepted that. If we had accepted the Russian bank, it would probably have been completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8157	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavisa Topalovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8158	I'm reporting from Business, Article 226, and I'm asking for an answer from Police Minister Dragan Jocic. In the Old Paz municipality, citizens have been missing for a long time. I'm in the neighboring municipality of Zemun, so I can hear and see how these citizens live and in what fear. There have been reported missing four people in the SUP in the last few years. I have here the newspaper "Pazovačka Revija" in June-July 2007 and there is a missing Milan Stokuqa. It has already been more than two years since Milan Stokuća, 52 years old, from Nova Paz, famous craftsman, owner of the store "Lav", went for a walk with friends to celebrate. He comes out of the house and then he loses every lead. We have the next disappearance, which Revija announced, the more mysterious disappearance of 88-year-old Golubins, Mate Rauk, went to the field three years ago and to this day about him, no sign of a voice. When relatives went looking for Mate Rauk, they visited the village first, whether he might have stopped by someone, but when they saw no one was there, they went to the field in the morning and found a tractor plowing the scar, still lit, and no sign of a voice from the driver. The next disappearance, the strong old lady, despite her 68 years old, Mr. Secretary, is this funny to you? I'd like to ask you to get serious, because these are serious things, and I'm not talking to you, and I'm asking for an answer from the Police Secretary. Mara Rodić, who walked out of her house, Sava Kovacevic 27, in the Starobazova settlement of Mala Bosna, to buy something sweet to eat in a nearby shop, left the yard that afternoon and never came home again. The fourth reported disappearance, nearly the second month since the mysterious disappearance of one Golubinian, this time in May, Eva Rauk, 57 years old, called Jaeger, a driving instructor from the Golubins, disappeared. That morning, like many years ago, he went to a nearby village kiosk to buy newspapers, bought newspapers, and never showed up again. A pilot disappeared, whose car was found at a gas station on the Novi Sad-Belgrade highway. In the Golubins, an unearthed cancer was found in the field, two metres deep, found by the owner when he came to pick corn. The situation is extremely serious, please the Minister of Police, the Committee of Security and Prime Ministers to answer this question - where are these people, where are these citizens? We're witnesses to the disappearance of little Luke Opačić and his uncle, they were found torn and butchered, with their heads decapitated, on the Danube coast in Banovci. The crime was committed by the monster Yakupek. The people are in fear. They don't move in the streets at night, there's limited movement in the daytime. Citizens fear for their loved ones. What has ruled this city of Sremia?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8159	A fellow Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8160	If you can just let me finish. I think it's a really serious situation and this isn't political, this is the interest of all of us and all of Serbia's citizens. If you could just let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8161	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8162	It's said to be a cult, like in the case of little Luke Opačić and his uncle, the people assume that there is an organic mafia that kills and sells organs. Citizens of this municipality, these dream villages are terrified. Who can guarantee the safety of these citizens from the authorities? There's a white van with darkened glass that stops and asks for the street, and then the side door opens, the victim goes in at full speed and disappears in an unknown direction. Is it true, Mr. Jocic, that the police went behind their relatives and took off the advertising boards of missing and contact phones, with an explanation... (Chairman: Please finish.) ) (Here, just two more sentences)... with a reason not to upset the citizens. If that's true, then who's in the interest of finding out this crime? What is it, exactly, is there anyone who can answer us, that the citizens of the Old Paz municipality will calm down and that they can continue to live a normal life, not live in fear?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8163	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in this united debate of these points, we just heard, which is true, that these laws are divided as far as the railways are concerned by two technical and two financial ones. When it comes to finance and responsibilities, of course all MPs are careful to discuss, for one simple reason, which follows another new task. Maybe this arrangement is a credit good, maybe these conditions are good, but if those who give us credit conditions, and they say that we have to buy a re-promatter from them, that their experts are going to do this job on the reconstruction of the railway, etc., we are left with nothing to do but repay that loan, and there is no benefit from it, because we are not hiring our people and we are not going to re-promatially produced in Serbia, to install in the reconstruction of the railway. I think that's basic when we talk about this package of financial laws. Looking at these bill proposals, and if we read them to someone who really isn't addressed and doesn't know what they represent in reality, it's the impression that our great government, with the great leadership of the Serbian Railways and with the director of the Serbian Railways, which, I say, last year, seems to me, has been declared the manager of the year, that they have a great development policy, in fact, a policy that represents a model for other countries as it is done, and in fact it's not true. We know what's going on in the railroad. If we're a little interested in reading these suggestions, we're in charge. How we're going to get them back, I don't know, and the outcome of everything can be fatal for the state and for Serbia, and for the railway company of Serbia, and above all in terms of losing the most attractive rail routes, as well as in terms of the loss of the accompanying infrastructure. Everyone knows how much frequency means to every region, i.e. the possibility of exploiting rail transport itself, and how much interest it is, above all, private entrepreneurs who take the railway centre without asking for a price, because we know how attractive it is if it is located next to a railway station. We could link all of this to the Law of Railways, and we doubt there's anything else in these laws. There's a lot of questions going on automatically. Why don't we tell the citizens of Serbia what it is until yesterday with those fellow workers who have lost their jobs and what the situation is in the railways. Why don't we say that, through their spies and informants properly deployed across the railways, they release threats and stories about the closure of the railroads and the closure of individual cells? Why don't we tell the citizens of Serbia that corruption on the railway is so much that it can't be described in words, even though some of the government have denied it? Why don't we say that a large number of redeployed workers travels over 50 km to work, and the Ministry or the railway company reduces their travel costs and causes them problems? A thousand why. The ministry avoids saying that some people are placed in the most responsible places on the party line, in fact in the fictional sectors, which are quality, that time has shown and will show. I repeat, only on the party line. We just want to warn you, and you, Mr. Minister, and the public of Serbia, that we in the SRS have absolutely all the data, starting with the names and last names of gentlemen who were drunk and dismayed in the workplace yesterday were the subject of ridicule and ridicule. I'm not going to name them now, but today you and your Ministry and the Railways of Serbia are being presented. Once, during the time of the kingdom, the railway ministry was separated, it was special, and as such it was successfully and well organized at the time. Let me remind you, honourable Members of the people, that Mr. Mehmed Spaho, the grandfather of SRS Sulaiman Spaha, was at the head of this ministry. As for the agreement on the establishment of a high performance network in Southeast Europe, I can say that it represents nothing but the upgrade and improvement of already existing agreements and aspects of co-operation, while it presents to our public as some agreement of a decade which, as a fol, this government has succeeded and attributed itself as its success. So sweetly professional and falsely entrenched reminds the irresistible of an idea that certainly hides behind the whole story. Once again, someone from Germany's number 6 will remember that, for the sake of proper implementation of something that exists in fact, they will receive a dozen advisors or ordinary administrative workers on the party line, who will only have one goal, to support the Ministry and the minister and to receive the salary. While on the other hand, people who really love the railroad and who live on it, counting on that whole generation, live in fear of their existence and look at the rubber building with contempt, as they call it, the Railway Management Building, in Germany's number six, where thousands of people have been employed, of which honest and true know-how on the railways get measles and can't do anything, because under your authority, the party's book represents something stronger than profession and experience, which is not, we're witnessing, a case only on the railway. What to say about the amendments to the Convention on International Railway Transport or as the COTIF abbreviations already say. (Minister Velimir Ilic throws out of place: KOTIF. You don't know what to say. Mr. Minister, you can't confuse me, you can talk all you want, you can't confuse me with a pay phone. If you want, I can be funny. First of all, this should be made simple and said in plain folk Serbian, here is when you provoke me, since this convention is written in three languages, English, German and French, each Member State translates it into its own official language and needs, so it would not surprise me that the government only makes this decision to make one of the three languages official, only for these needs, because if you are translated by Minister Vela Ilic and his associates, who knows what might eventually fall and fall. After their translation, it could be that instead of really saying what has happened so far, and that the aforementioned convention has legal power and is ratified by the governments of the Member States, since it is an international contract, we can come to a situation where, after the translation of Vela's experts, we have a sudden opportunity to make a decision about it by So Cačak, and then we know what awaits us. Maybe I wouldn't say this either, and here, Mr. Minister, you're throwing it at me, and that's what it says about you. One-brave rules in the contract on international rail transport for all Member States in the transport of goods, passengers, luggage is, in fact, the simplest word of the COTIF. No one talked about COTIF today specifically. (Minister Velimir Ilic throws out of place: KOTIF. You don't know what to say. Cotif, that's what it says. Mr. Minister, I'll tell you a joke after he's tied to you. Speaking of this, it must certainly be said how much interest Mr. Velimir Ilic has for the border crossings and for what purpose they serve him. So for example, we have a border crossing that's open with a big pomp, quite accidentally in the course of a pre-election campaign, and so far, no train has gone through, so tell me it's not true either. It's about the crossing of God, crossing with Croatia. Even though we've been informed, there's one hint that this one should have been passed recently, but it was an unsuccessful attempt. We're not going to go into detail, because there's no need to prove to you that we're fully informed and you know it very well. When that border crossing opened, again the main hero was, no one else, but imagine, Mr. Minister, in his own style, all happy to open the bridge, he was only two and a half hours late, and representatives of the countries of the Norwegian and Belgian embassies at the great minus, because it was winter, were waiting for the terrible minister. Why should He respect them, when he's already taken money from their governments to resuscitate the bridge and that border crossing I mentioned. There's a lot to say, but, Mr. Minister, you can keep your head down. And at the end of my discussion, however, I would say that, in addition to two formalities, we have in that ministry a Russian roulette with two bullets, which the Ministry of Infrastructure, along with the Government and you who represent the assembly majority, will adopt, and I mean the contract on the guarantee and relationship of the railways - the government, as well as the relationship between the Government - the European Bank, will turn and fire. The first bullet will certainly hit workers of the Serbian Public Undertaking, and then there will be another one. We're wondering who's gonna get hit by that other guy when the workers jump in and start looking for the culprit. It's true, and that's how it's supposed to be spoken in the eyes. I already know, and you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who is the other one ready for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8165	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borka Vukic remains 26 minutes for the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8166	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I called to tell you right as an ex-banker, and I wanted to say something from that experience that relates to development projects and our experiences in the period when we flourished in development, and now we're in that position. We don't bloom in development, but we all have to contribute together to projects of development, starting with infrastructure, starting with. I'd like to say that we've lost a lot of time discussing this, all the parties, with the silent ones, they're bearers of ideas, but we still have to stop and figure out the following, I'm obliged to meet you. Of these three banks, I would like to point out that the European Investment Bank contract, Mr. Minister spoke very professionally about it, I'm a little surprised that he got so much into the details of the contract, one investment bank of Europe that has been working with us for more than 15 or 16 years, if taken away these seven years when we haven't worked with it, but during those seven years, I would say that the European Investment Bank and the Eurofims have been very supportive and even funded by these projects, even though funding and our relationship with foreign banks at all. Therefore, we should remember that. This largest 80 million loan is intended for the reconstruction of railways, new equipment, its training, and I think it's very important and we can't give it up. There are no problems in that contract that we have been holding out on when it comes to the European Development Bank and when it comes to the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. It's something else. On this plan, we have not fought until today, and the real clauses in these two contracts are quite different, and very difficult, where we will have many problems, because these projects must continue to look together, but if conditions can be achieved in these two other banks, which are new, which are transition banks and which are entering us in this period, when all the foreign banks that have come to us, as well as these development banks of Europe or international institutions, are fighting exclusively for profit, but they have found models to protect themselves in this profit. In this case, with all three contracts, I would exclude the European Investment Bank, it's really a bank that supported us, not just by projects. We also enjoyed the sanctions, all the banks of our development that existed, enjoyed deposits when they couldn't get loans from this bank. We only came to this because we are all guilty, and many of you who as corporate representatives sit as shareholders, to lose and liquidate all four development banks, which would be an extraordinary filter today, that before going out to the Assembly, an institution located in the Assembly, through committees and other institutions, could contribute to some clauses of ours, which would have previously brought, applied to these contracts, we did so. It was a clause of illegality, we went to the Assembly, we got that it couldn't be signed, and then it was respected by international institutions. It's our fault we don't have a filter, and this filter would be for this bank's infrastructure today, because our personnel are trained in these very institutions, I'm talking about the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, ISA and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8167	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, she is a colleague of Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ilic, I have a note and a question for you, although I do not know how familiar you are with what I am about to bring to the public as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ten days ago, you were in the government to distribute prey based on the participation of political parties, to whom it would belong some of the cakes concerning public enterprises and boards of directors. "The official messenger" belongs to the DS in your new machinations, trade and blackmail against others. I got the catalogue of the 2007 Official Messenger. Listen to me very carefully. The official messenger is a public company, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, and which, above all, is in charge of publishing the regulations and laws adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but of course, has that part of its publishing that goes to commercial purposes and needs, as well as any company, to assess whether it is worth it in that commercial sense, whether it is printed or not, for these purposes, to print any issue from any area, whether the publication, textbooks, brochures, monographs, etc. What I've looked at, probably all of you, if you get it, our word is the law, and it's seen in this catalogue for 2007, it's really scandalous. I ask you a question, and you ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because then you too, Mr. Ilic, are wrongly left out, and now I'm going to explain to you how. What is the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia to print the collected works of Dragoljub Micunovic? The book says - Words in time, Dragoljub Micunović, 14h20 centimeters, 469 pages, hard link etc. He says - 106 congregation speeches collected in a book - Words in Time. So if those 106 collected speeches by Dragoljub Micunovic, imagine how many books should be printed to the MPs of the SRS. They should print 10 volumes to me, to Tomislav Nikolic 30, 50, 60, to Mr. Vukic, about President Seselj not to speak to every radical individually. Imagine, you print and say -- it's an impression of Serbian democracy, our parliamentary life, and it has an interest in the official messenger as a public enterprise to print the book to Micunu. Listen further, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts laws from various areas, the Law on Tourism, the Law on Church and Religious Communities, and a number of other laws on consumer protection, civil servants, prefaces, conversation, all on the cover of the book. This is not the basic role of this public enterprise to publish the law, not but rather the preface or conversation pompously addressed. Written by a former or current minister, this Loncaru, however, was this, he was now a minister of education, but he only embezzled from one side to the other, his authorial work. So the question is, what do you do with people's money, how do you manage public enterprises? You grab who will be chairman of the board of directors, who will receive what compensation, 100, 200, 300 thousand dinars. I understand that you are printing the books of Professor Miodrag Jovičić, indeed one of the great lawyers, successors of learning and the works of Slobodan Jovanovic, but to print the English and Serbian edition of Bozidar Djelic - When we will be better, ask yourself when we really will be better. When we drive you all out of power and the citizens have this watch that Djelic put on his own when he took a picture for this book, which costs at least a few tens of thousands of euros. Then we'll get better when the criminals end up where they belong. And these publications and this kind of waste of state money, that's something that's really a scandal and people need to see. And then imagine - what you, Mr. Ilich, have been left out. You're the minister who's author, in that original sense, as minister of the previous government, of certain laws, so you see what they haven't given you. What? You're not capable, you're illiterate, so you don't know how to write a preface or talk... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... And publish your author's work? This is how we are going to publicly stamp every abuse of the position of every state official, and this is more than abuse of public office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8169	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladan Batic, and let the last speaker in this debate be prepared, Mr Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 226 - an explanation from the government and the resolution ministers. Here's the thing. I've been contacted by several members of the MP's office, several members of the initial board to resolve the status of Slovenian pensions. I think we should raise this to the level of Parliament and government, because it is more than 3,000 of our citizens who have been paying contributions to the Social and Pension Insurance Fund of the then Republic of Slovenia for years. With all the former Yugoslav republics, Serbia has concluded bilateral conventions and solved the pension problem which, in those former republics, our citizens have the right, except with Slovenia. I must say that the people who are distressing this torment, and I repeat, it is more than 3,000 citizens, which is why Serbia is losing over a million euros a month, has been talking to all possible addresses, knocking on all doors of foreign ministers, labour and social policy ministries, and how in their numerous correspondence and documentation presented to me they say that the only correct answer they received from former labour and social policy minister Mrs Gordana Matkovic, of course, Minister of the Government Zoran Djindjic. I must remind you that Bosnia has solved this problem of unresolved pensions with Slovenia with a kind of ultimatum of the BiH Assembly, even threatening to break diplomatic relations with Slovenia. Of course, we don't have to go that far, but we need to make it clear that Slovenia's problem and their claim that, because of the great expenditure, the collection of these pensions, Slovenia, that is, their Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, would bankrupt us. We don't care about that. Serbia must take care, if it is a serious state, of the interest of each of its citizens. This is about over 3,000 people with their families, it's a significant part of the population. Serbia has so far shown no particular interest in dealing with this problem, so I appeal that this thing is definitely moving from a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8171	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Slavisa Topalović, and a time of 26 minutes, as long as it belongs to the SRS, will also be used by MP Zorica Stevanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8172	We've had more calls today at the SRS Parliament Club, it's about official apartments that got a large number of employees at the Railways, with those people who got apartments only being able to use them. So they pay rent, and they don't have the option of ransom. Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to you. According to Slobodan Vojinovic, one of them, these apartments in Serbia are thousands. On behalf of these citizens, I ask Minister Velimir Ilic - when he will redeploy these official apartments which these citizens of the railways have acquired through decades of honest work and will they be able to buy them out? Mr. Minister, we Serbian radicals, of course, are for a better and more modern railway. Trains travel on our tracks up to 100 miles an hour. To be clear, we're not against it, but we are certainly against investments that are suspicious to us. Why are we suspicious of these investments? It's suspicious, because you, Mr. Minister, are sitting at the head of the Serbian Government's Ministry of Infrastructure. Mr. Minister, we have no doubt that you in the ministry have a problem with the NIP. Today at the show, you said they wouldn't give a penny for the railroad. Mr. Minister, at the head of the NIP, as we all know, sits in Dragan Gilas of the DS. That's your coalition partner. You, Mr. Ilic, chose who you'd be sitting with in the government. You told that same Gilas earlier that he was a thief. Then what are you looking for, if you say he's a thief, with that thief in the government? Who's stealing now, who's spending state money like it's his, not the Serbian government? Who puts a foot in the work between you and Mr. Gilas? That's all you know, Mr. Minister, and Mr. Gilas. There's obviously some problem with your cooperation. He doesn't give you state money, acts like it's his, and you use the money you have, build roads around Serbia, use it as yours. There's Velya, tomorrow's machine; there's Velya, tomorrow's asphalt. You're all working depending on where you appear and what's the problem of communal nature in that territory. That doesn't match the DSS either, but what they're going to do is they're going to have to put up with you because of the ruling majority. In the campaign, you spoke in Serbia and promised towers and cities. In Bujanovac, in the village of Loparinca, you promised the bridge and the airport. Imagine a bridge in the village of Loparinca, a village that has no river, no stream. The minister's promise to build an airport, the citizens laughed. Why would they want an airport in that village? Your coalition partners from the DSS were saying, "When you get the microphone, we're just getting out of the way." With him he can do anything, he promises both possible and impossible. Mr. Minister, you represent yourself as a Serb patriot, you sit in the government with those, you give them most of them, those who have blackmailed the heads of our Serbian heroes. Mr Ilic, you, along with DS, DSS and G17, have set a price for Ratko Mladic's head -- a million euros, for Radovan Karadzic's head -- a million euros, you are with them in the government. You set a price for Goran Hadzic for 250,000 euros, for Zupljanin - 250 000 euros. You know, either don't sit with them in government anymore or come out here and publicly tell them you're no longer a patriot and you're not a real Serb. Don't say you're not up for it. If they didn't have your support, they wouldn't rule, they wouldn't have a majority. Your superiors say you're walking the edge of the law. You know, it's easy to walk on the edge of the law when the Serbian government holds you by the belt, even if you accidentally fall, the Serbian government pulls you out because they need you. They'll change power, and then we'll see if there's any basis, because they won't have anyone to stop an investigation in your direction, like in the case of the road mob. It seems to us that you are being manipulated by Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, that you are not your own boss, but that they are actually wondering about your moves. We said this was a suspicious investment for you, so I'd like to ask you a few questions. You said you didn't have money for the railroad, that you were in short supply, that a railway crossing cost 120,000 euros. How many crossing points can you make for the money that all of you in the government have offered together for Serbian heads? Mr. Minister, I'll help you, the 208.4 rail crossing for that money can be built across Serbia. I'm sorry if it's a mistake. How did you solve that S.I.E.L.D. problem in Chačka before you started politics? You know, it was a replacement for old radiators for new ones, so you didn't return those new ones, you didn't install them. Word is you ended it through the SKJ, something like that. Tell me what's true about all this. How do you explain what the Chacans call "Valje's Street" one street in Chačka of Mercy? It's Karajordje's street in Chačka. It's said you own three of the most beautiful objects there, both later and during your first term as president of the Cachak municipality. Two of them are led to someone else, but the citizens claim that all three of them are yours. Is that true, Mr. Ilic? Is it true the cancellation of the contract to sell "Technos" from Chuck to the Russians? When an investigative judge in Cacca detained a legal representative of the firm, the pre-negotiation was already announced at the session SO Cačak, and the next day it was annulled. What is your role in all this and does it have? The scandal around the Horgos-Požega highway. How come, Mr. Minister, that the concessionaire is no longer called FCC Alpina, a consortium with which the government has concluded a contract, but with 50 percent in the Austrian PORR business? Who won the tender? Who then introduced another concessionaire, whose initiative is that, and who is behind it all, Mr. Minister? Is it true that PORR is building in Hungary a 58km share road, four plus two stop lanes, at a far lower price than it will build in Serbia? Is that true and is it a commission? Is it true that we have a commission much bigger than in Hungary? Mr. Minister, have you been informed, and you should be, and is it even true that the Alpina company, it can be checked, had a major bribery scandal when building a stadium in Munich? How could you make any deal with the Alpina firm until you check out the company's business? You might be comfortable with their business that way. These are the reasons for our suspicions, with everything that's about you. I think it will be clear to the citizens of Serbia why we will not support these bill proposals concerning your ministry, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8173	The word has been given by MP Zorica Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8174	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, apparently despite a united debate on several agenda points, all of them were the most interesting railways. Since I'm from Nis, I'm going to take the opportunity to ask you two questions. When will you long promised to move the railroad to Nis, with incumbent Mayor Smiljko Kostic, end or end? I'm interested in when the reconstruction of Bulevara will be completed on February 12th, which has been going on for a year, and you know it's one of the little more important shops in Nis, at the very entrance from Belgrade to Nis. Dear colleagues, I see that Ms. Minister of Telecommunications and the Information Society, Aleksandra Smiljanić, does not have one of my visions regarding the World Postal Union. I'd like to introduce you to something, and I'd like to draw some attention to myself, looking at this agenda point. The World Post Federation held its 23rd congress in Bucharest from 15 October 2004 to 5 October 2004. He was in Beijing in 1999, you saw it in an explanation. Serbia, as a member state, was to ratify the Seventh Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Federation, the General Regulations of the World Postal Union, the World Postage Convention and the Final Protocol of the World Postage Convention, an arrangement on postal cash services. In Article 4(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The seventh additional protocol of the Constitution of the World Postal Federation is said literally, and I hope that you stuck to it, although the shadow sees that it is, that the amendments adopted at the Congress of the Member States ratify as soon as possible. What does it look like in our case, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia is made up of parties facing European values, Euro-Atlantic and other integrations, in which there are valuable, working, hardworking, such European ministers, with all professional services? How loud are you yelling and how much are you talking about Europe? The more you mention Europe, the further we go. All that sounds nice, but unfortunately the train to Lapovo has been standing on a blind track for three years, literally forgotten. We have entered an arrangement that will cost the Republic of Serbia two million dinars, I hope since this year, or I am interested, since the minister is not here to tell me whether it will be retroactive. The act adopted at the last congress in 2004 came into effect on 1 January 2006, and our very high governments, both former and present, did not find it appropriate that a binding act, which does not provide for corrections, an act that does not require any special additional actions in terms of preparation, other than the current translation, could not be placed on the agenda for three years, and this is also the fourth year. This shows that you are Europeans, that you are accurate, quick and up-to-date. You kill yourself from work, and all for the benefit of the citizens and, of course, for the purpose of further European integration. When it comes to such a job, it is practically done and prepared by the World Postal Federation, to which only the accompanying act should be added, which, together with the explanation, ultimately counts four sides of the text. You haven't been able to put this on the agenda for three years. I can imagine, and the citizens of Serbia can imagine, that you're doing something so important, that it's not really about money, because it's the only thing when it comes to money that ends quickly. Respected citizens of Serbia, when I say they do something really important, I think they're complete authors, from ideas to the realization of an important legal act, without almost putting it on the table by their Western sponsors. The explanation literally says that Canada doesn't recognize the return shipment. Then Libya does not allow shipments with valuable things: money, jewelry, etc. I can't take the opportunity and a pay phone to tell you that on this side, too, about this ministry and about this area, how you treat the Hague indictees. At the moment of the death of a family member Dr. Vojislav Seselj, or his mother, on my case, you will see what I experienced in a post office in Nis. When I wanted to send a telegram that was convenient, meaning a message of condolences, they told me the picture didn't recognize international traffic. It was their first resistance. The second resistance was when I agreed to a simple telegram, he couldn't. When I asked - when will the telegram arrive, it goes to Belgrade, maybe tonight, maybe in the morning. I have a telegram number, so if Mrs. Secretary is in charge, I'd like to know if the telegram's here. I get the impression that you rule and work on the system - sky high, sea deep. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, it may not have been up to now by the up-to-date Europeans, but it is nearing the new convention in the next 2008 about the postal alliance, so like all the bad students, you rushed to do your homework three years ago, writing on your knees. What are three years when they say that we have been divided into 30 years by the future and entry into the EU. Of course, with you in power. But I need to remind you that the election is coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8175	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. Vladan Batic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226 again. I am asking for an explanation from the Deputy Prime Minister, as well as from the entire government, and it concerns continuing promises that Serbia will join European integration within a very short time, to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I wanted to remind myself that Montenegro signed the agreement yesterday and that, apart from BiH, only Serbia remained out of the European track, as we are dealing with railway terminology today and yesterday. Today we heard from Mrs. Kolundjia the story of taking responsibility. Apparently, we're all from the opposition, referring to LDP, I'm a DHSS MP, but anyway, we're comfortable, and those in power, they're responsible. It was also found that the issue of the government's survival is a question of Serbia's interest. I mean vice versa. Serbia has no salvation if this government leads further. It is, after all, the opposition's task to criticise the government, to point to government failures. I claim that it is not responsible but irresponsible, when we have a authority that does not respect the constitution itself, that it is not responsible but irresponsible when we do not have many of the most important institutions in this country, such as, say, the Constitutional Court. When the Republic Prosecutor's Office recently led our pensioner, and now we have an employee of our duties. When the most important laws in the area of defence, foreign affairs, the military, an entire set of electoral laws, an entire set of judicial laws, a law on denationalisation, are passed, and a colorful lie is created and a smoke screen for citizens of Serbia is created. We will spend the entire October doing this agenda and the bill proposals that would be significant in some normal conditions and in some normal country, but since we are constantly in a state of emergency, these laws are completely trivial to us. This is for partying Serbian citizens and distracting attention from basic burning topics. If we have a growth in corruption, then it's not a responsibility, it's an irresponsibility. If we have a rise in crime, read the headlines in the newspaper every day, worse than at the time of the Zemun clan, it's not responsibility, it's irresponsible. If we have an economic downturn, it's not responsibility, it's irresponsible. I'm done, you promised, and then you claimed you'd never go with Velja, here's Velya alive and healthy, with Sarancic, Jocic, they're here. You claimed, insisting that the head of security must be removed if full co-operation with the tribunal is not achieved. You spoke, it will be in three months, Rade Bulatovic is still in place as Bija chief. You claimed the election had to be held by the New Year's Eve. There's nothing from the election to the new year, it won't even be scheduled. (President: Thank you, Mr. Batic. ) Therefore, it is not a matter of responsibility and irresponsibility, and hostages and victims of and irresponsibility are citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8177	The last reported MP is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. Total remaining time for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8178	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as my fellow MP said, here are two draft laws financial, and to call them, two technical proposals. In fact, I would refer to this bill that was actually signed with the European Bank on 14 July 2006. Exactly a year and a half ago, but to be in the function of purchasing 1,100 new freight wagons. I would ask you how, as the Democratic Party representative said, the first speaker, when this contract was signed and now that its implementation is to begin, can no longer be 1,100, to call them, these freight wagons, but in fact around 900 due to the price of steel moving today on the market. I ask you when this law begins, that is, when this contract starts to work, I'm afraid that it will not be burned on number 500, which says that in fact, the Republic Parliament should bring this contract or this proposal with the signature of the European Bank, but I am asking you whether or not it will control the spending of these funds. It will not be done by the republican parliament, but it will probably be done by someone at the Ministry of Transport, which I believe as before, as is usually all these contracts or ratifications that have been signed, usually after that, the money for which that money was intended is lost. Now I'm also going to read you something that fell into my eye, which is that this contract can use a variable interest rate, and then it's said -- but later in using this loan, it's going to see if, how and how to move on to this fixed interest. That's not clear to me, but the minister will probably answer that question, and now or at the beginning of this contract signing, it'll be that variable interest, and later on when they're those tranches, as that money rises, then there'll be that fixed interest, which is unclear to me at all, I can't figure it out. Secondly, it usually says here that 0.5% will actually be paying for some kind of pen, if it doesn't come in time for the realisation of the use of the loan. What also stings my eyes is that the very guarantee of using this loan is insufficient or I have to say honestly quite unprofessionally, so I think a high school student like this, at least as far as this Article 2 is concerned, might explain it a little more studioly, or still this is a huge part of the money, so I think we should formulate differently and explain this differently, or 60 million euros that will be used in the realization of this project. Ladies and gentlemen, by signing this contract itself, that the minister of traffic not only with three or four sentences he has spoken or that he kept repeating after this pay phone to say that we want to join Eurointegration, so we need those fast tracks, we need fast trains, we need to solve all these problems that are in that railway infrastructure. We all know the good that we travel through Serbia and move in the state of the railways. That railroad hasn't really been invested in years. Any change in order, but there was no realisation that the key, to call them, key infrastructure needed in Serbia's economy was not invested in it. But one plan, a priority programme, was to be made, and to say whether it will be revitalised by the southern Serbia, whether from the north, whether from the east or west, means to see where these economic capacities are, where the economy works, whether it does not work or works depending on the use of this railway infrastructure. You've synchronised it, the cells will paint first, take care of it. That's not bad either, but you should have written where these stations are going to be revitalised first. I'm glad Mr. dentist came out to defend this project, to defend what Mr. Velija Ilic and his professional service prepared, but I don't think it's that professional... I apologize, Mr. Surgeon, but worse still, he probably wanted that surgical knife to cut where it stopped. I'm telling you, there's probably something more important and more difficult in this Serbia, but what's the problem with this project, you haven't mentioned anywhere whether these funds will be used in the companies that need to perform these works, such as the Kraljevo Car Factory, such as "Gosa" Smederjevska Palanka, where our machinery projects will be involved and our machinery industry will be involved in the realisation of this project. You didn't say that anywhere here, there's nothing here to call it, an idea piece where you wanted to point out whether this process of taking this money would be justified, as you said at the beginning that there would be a large number of employees in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, again, I think as the political campaign approaches, I'm afraid one part of this money will not find its second time, where you think you're using it in your political campaigns. We know well, we get to know each other well, I must tell you, at the assembly sessions of the municipality, that Mr. Minister would know, I come from the Sabic municipality, from Capca, where the realisation of this travel infrastructure is such that I really don't think there's any major crime, but in that barge. In order for me to paint this for you, I'll tell you how the roads are built or what it's like in the Sabbath community. It seems that after a year or two, when the road is paved, then we go back to the same, and then the same machines come again, the same mechanism, the same thing, it's asphalting again. I'm so afraid that what you think with the railroads doesn't happen, that the opposite doesn't happen where you think you're going to hire a large number of our naked people, hungry citizens who are out of a job or a million people who are out of a job, that you're going to solve some small, minor part of it. If we look at the railway that once connected a strong chemical industrial centre, the Zorka Chemical Industry from Šapac, I must tell you that it must have been about three or four years or after the DOS-manlian authorities came to power in Serbia that the railways had grown and that there was no one left to go, because the factories stopped working, they stopped working. So most of all, it seems to me now that those who cut cars, where all of this applies to waste. It's probably the ones who have the biggest profit today. Probably the minister also thinks that his Ministry of Traffic will probably be linked to such waste companies, that this secondary material is coming back to the hardware store, because it will be the only way to hire people or get profits.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8179	The word is from MP Milutin Mrkonjic, the authorised representative of the SPS. You've got ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8180	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in the second part of my presentation, I wanted to talk about economic parameters, which means one such development project for our country. But previously, the debates that were before me and all day long have confirmed the importance of this project and at all the railways in general for our people, regardless of the lack of personal and personal perception, which I don't think a job like this deserves, especially one such project as the modernisation of the railways, I am pleased that the Assembly in general is talking this maturely about this project. Of course, the railroad has two lives. One is liquid and these are all those problems you were talking about, all mostly slow trains, dirty trains, old thresholds, exhausted railways, etc. The other one's a developmental one. For many years, most of our politicians have not realized what it is to develop railways and not just railways, but to make big systems at all. Today I think it's time to take it slowly. Without development, I said that in the first part of my speech, his discussion, no life, no employment, no perspective, and of course what's most important for most of our parties, no Europe, no development. When we talk about how, I'm inclined to propose today, without any note of criticism or criticism, the principle of co-operation. We still have, regardless of the wild privatisation and uncontrollable privatisation, which takes place from October 5th to today, our companies, we still have a lot of companies capable of parts, through your discussion it felt and saw, you know the matter well, we realize this project ourselves. So, that problem you've all highlighted here, mostly critical, the control problem. This is how the state still exists, the Assembly, the Government, the Traffic Committee, the Ministry of Transport and Railways and the accompanying subcommittees. There's nothing else there. Now here in this assembly are colleagues Obradovic, a colleague of Shami, a colleague of Dragan Todorovic, meaning half of the ministers from our governments are sitting here in the Assembly. What's the greater control for such a project? The railroad itself has personnel forces. I have to tell Mr. Minister that I haven't been satisfied for the past seven years as they've engaged, they've been more of an expert in the second plan because politics has mostly led development projects. So they must have more power to come up with their suggestions. That's the part of the control you've all been talking about, the one that's missing. We don't need anything else. However, I must say, Mr. Minister won't get angry, I don't see why we have the Ministry of Infrastructure if the state knows that there is no life without investment, and that's what they're all saying today, then the Deputy Prime Minister of Investments, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Construction, as in all normal countries. Then Velya has three people who can help him in that government, give him a lobby. I was against being the Ministry of Capital Investment, but capital investments are a term from a time of hard communism. That doesn't mean much to you who won power on October 5th, but it shouldn't have done that. So today, there are small and medium-sized enterprises in this country that can implement what they want, along with cooperation with foreign companies, first and foremost in the area of telecommunications, I'm sorry that the co-worker, signal-safety facilities, etc. I'm deliberately saying this because I've seen my colleague Vukicevic, as a doctor, use those terms more than I do, so now I have to prove that I know something. With the cooperation with these world firms, we bring new technology into our country and there's work for our people as well. If the whole project is worth, I apologize, I may not guess, in my time working on the railway, it was about 2.5 billion euros, the whole highway, corridor 10. Five years a year, 500 million a year, of which half the money should remain in our country. For these people who are more professional and know what it is, the bottom machine of course we can do all by ourselves, the upper machine is rails, thresholds, well up, pillars of electricity, etc., we can work in co-operation. That's what puts this project in order of our greatest development opportunities. This is why the SPS as a state-run party, estimating public enterprises as our most original chance, is voting for these five laws and giving full support to the people working on these projects. Of course, control is necessary and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8181	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? The word is by MP Predrag Umicevic, the authorised representative of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8182	I would refer to this work yesterday when I was talking about a small rail history that is 123 years old here in Serbia and is older than any of the mandates of any party here in Parliament. That's why we should look at the railway as something that lasts and what it does, we can say freely, the backbone of one country's development, our Serbian railway makes the backbone of the Serbian industry and what we talked about about its geostrategic position on the ground of Southeast Europe, this railway is a trans-European railway, and if we sign the COTIF, and hopefully we will, like all other agreements, simply include our railways in the order of rail countries in the environment, and therefore in the rail Europe, because it is trans-European. It might have been someone who would've preferred to have signed it, but in this situation, it's part of Southeast Europe. There were a lot of words on the subject of control. I'd like to pay attention for one moment. We have before us a guarantee contract, where we, as a state, give a guarantee. Here, apart from the Ministry of Capital Investments, the Ministry of Finance participates and is a special contract consisting of, simply complete control, I think the public will be aware of that, and we have talked very constructively about it on the Committee on Traffic, so I don't think the control will be left behind, and the contract itself very specifically defines a framework of 95% of the financial frameworks, namely what these funds are specifically and intended for. On the basis of suspicion, we cannot knock down the quality of this project and support it because we suspect that someone will commit some kind of crime. It's not the role of our MPs, at least I'm so experiencing, that we're financial inspectors, that we're auditors, but to help with the rapid adoption of a set of these laws speed up the transition process in the country, because this waste of time can cost our economy dearly, because many businesses have gone under ice because of the slow change, because of the slow transition. The quick adoption of laws like this, we heard earlier, a colleague here mentioned what I was saying in the opening statement, how much we're losing just because one of these ratifications is slowly confirmed and the signing of a guarantee like this. Accurate mathematics can determine that if about 200 wagons were lost in the last 14 months, we lost about 16m euros today, which means 40,000 euros a day. It's really a huge loss that we can't calculate because we haven't used these funds in a year, so I've been talking about corridor four, where countries in the environment are making one really competitive corridor four through Bulgaria and Romania, and just our inertness and our slowness, not just railways, but slowness and this parliament, can cost this country dearly in the development sense. The control of spending should not be the topic of debate here in Parliament, because there is a whole package and through certain ministries this country has passed its laws. We have an auditor who can exercise business control, but no doubt in the way these funds are spent should be an obstacle to signing one of these contracts. It would also be unserious to say that those who do not vote for this set of laws, all of these five points, are not for the development of Serbia. Simply, there are political parties that have a specific programme and can simply vote against this law or be abstention without reducing the importance of this project. It would also be unserious to say that control will be lagging behind, I said that this state has its own institutions, I am deeply convinced that these funds will be spent adequately. For all others who do not do their job well there are certain sanctions, there are certain appliances that will work if any criminal phenomenon is involved. The Democratic Party here does not support any personal aspect of any party and what we have talked about here, which is the fact that Serbia is on Corridor 10, that Corridor 10 is a pan-European direction, that Bulgaria and Romania are building a competitive corridor and that the railway is a manipulative backbone of the Serbian industry. The Democratic Party in the vote for this set of laws, when we talk about the railway, about these four laws, votes for exactly one international Serbian railway where we will connect, the DS vote for one Serbian development railway, which pulls back the development of Serbia's industry, we vote for one railway that, apart from Corridor 10, will strengthen Corridor 7. That's what I was talking about. It's simply a development project for Serbia. That's why we're voting on this set of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8183	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Does the minister want a word? (Yes) Before we conclude a joint single search, the word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8184	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I would just like to answer some questions that have been very serious to me and asked by some MPs. There are also those questions that are very non-serious and I don't think there's anything more serious to answer. For example, it's a Bujanovac in particular. All the tapes exist from the campaign in Bujanovac. We only went once and visited the Simpo factory, and talked to the workers and CEO of Simpo. Those stories - we'll make a bridge, we don't have a river, the airport in Bujanovac, I don't know, it's a story for little kids and a corny old joke. We don't have to do that. As far as the official railway stations are concerned, the official railway stations are used at individual train stations for staff serving the station or have to be made new for new staff who replace those who retire. You can't use a railway apartment or you have to build a new apartment for a person who comes to serve a railway station. So it's an official apartment for staff serving a train station at that point. Thomas asked me about Mrs. Sonja Licht. None of New Serbia's youth, and my children won't go to it -- that's for sure. Whoever wants to go have a go, that's 100 percent. As for the bridge that was built on the border with Croatia, God, we and the Croats made it. He was bombed and destroyed. No trains, no flow of goods between Croatia and Serbia. I can't let an empty train ride. It's all done, it's all over, but there's no firm interest in driving anything on either side. Citizens travelling to Croatia are going to the car. There's no passenger to report that he wants to take the train. So, the railroad was built, the crossing was open, that's what the citizens were looking for. The bridge is over, it's all done, it's in traffic, but I don't know what to drive if the economy has no interest in such a thing. Second, you asked for a loan, not to go for three to 15 years. Credit goes only three years, that's the deal with the bank, and that's the deal. Thirdly, the company and many who have criticised and attacked Director General Sarančić, this and that, it does not matter, I repeat, the board of directors manages the company and all decisions are made by the board of directors who reflect the situation in the government - as is the relationship in each board of directors. So, percent of every board of directors have people just like the government. Before there was, whoever has a director can't have a board president. The Management Board shall take decisions, sign and order the Director to execute. Therefore, the Director does not make decisions. About the sale of the wagon, about the cutting of the wagons, about the purchases, about everything is about the board of directors who delivers and gives the director the responsibility. You asked further about the Irons, why it wasn't a tender. Jelvos was recently the daughter of the Serbian Railway Company, not a tender for the daughters of the companies. You asked about Shinvoss from Zrenjanin. Shinvos was a social enterprise, and since 2004 it has been a private company. It's true that the boss has another firm, and when he's done, he puts in the account of one company or another. He owns the company and he owns the company. No one can influence him. That's what it used to be. Now it's a completely private company and no one can tell him what he's going to do and where he's going to transfer his money to be paid. He's got another firm, and if he's got employees' lawsuits, he's gonna transfer them to another firm, because they're tied up, and he's gonna use it. There are various financial inspections that can control it. Someone asked for security work on the bridges. Security on bridges and on the protection of supply infrastructures are people who were the special daughter of the railway company Serbia. According to the Privatisation Act, they went completely into privatisation and they were bought from one of our Serbs, originating in America, who bought it at the tender firm. He can open his own private company and do rail services. If they did not organise it, please workers to report to the Serbian Railways to establish a working relationship with the Serbian Railways to continue to guard bridges that have so far provided as far as the bridge in Ljubljana is concerned, the CIP is working on the project. The project will be completed in a month or two. We were planning to make a bridge at Love on the Drina. The Valjevo railway - Loznica costs 200m euros. You know when we made an agreement with the government of Austria and the government of Austria made a decision to help fund this project. She offered terms such as those of these banks we've now decided, exactly the same credit lines for 20 years and for our government, and it's up to you to decide whether or not we're going to accept it. They're asking to finance an interstate contract that we signed with the government of Austria a year ago. So their companies and their bank of Austria would finance this project and we could start the works very quickly. One part thought we should go to a tender to see what it would be like. But according to the project, we did, if we want this relationship with the government. As for the gentleman from Presevo, the president of the municipality, I'd like to answer your question. We stopped working part of it. Why? What your fellow citizens have raised so much that the cost of buying land is more expensive than building a road. Make a deal. We will comply with the law. You know that the highway, the second lane that needs to pass now from Presevo, you've raised the prices and price of hectares of the country, some chicares by the river, etc., cost more than pave the highway. I can't understand that it's so much, and that's why I'm asking you to consider this and bring the prices as a local authority to a proper scale, we'll enter the projects immediately. As far as the crossings are concerned, here I am going to send a commission, if any of them are extremely critical, we will immediately proceed to the performance. So, no problem. Some of them said the roads failed. I'd like to be taken personally. Here on Friday I'm in the mood to go with them to show it to me. As they said the Belgrade-Bar railway was wrong, I said we're going to the Belgrade-Bar train, and we're going to stop the train where you say it's wrong. We took the camera and the press, and we recorded it, and everything was fine. Please, from Capca, here I come to Shabbac to show me the path that failed in half a year. I'm particularly interested, because we're going to give the contractor a warrant right now to do the work on his expense again. I'm ready to leave right now. Here's Saturday. As for toll tolls on this part of the road towards Kovin, it is not legally possible to charge, but only on highways or freeways, only a short highway for the collection of Novi Sad-Sabotica is approved. Nothing else in Serbia has been approved. If they started on the master's trip from Smederev to Banat, then they would also ask in Ibarska, then it would start on a chain basis and have a charge throughout Serbia. So now the projects on that part of the 32km highway are working for the CIP, and the interest is to connect from the Potok drum along the highway to Pancheva 32km. This part will be avoided. We were in Smedereva the other day, where we'd solve the Brown Road completely, the connection in another way. But the toll is legally unfounded. I think there's still some spring crossings left, that's what we said, something else. There was a road mob here, there was talk, general. It is true that General Davidovic is on the run and it is true that the indictment was made, but General Davidovic is not indicted in the road mafia. That's what I've been reading in the papers a hundred times to talk to, he's being charged with a bankruptcy mob, and he's got nothing to do with the road mob. Please, there's nothing to do with the bankruptcy mob with the highways, with the ministry, etc. Gentlemen, let's face it, the road mob -- one part's in jail. The job and the first indictee in the whole procedure was a software worker, stealing tolls was planned in software, programmed, and it was stealing to drop for someone, it will be seen when judgments are and it lasts 16 years. After the first year, we suspected when we were doing a traffic count study for Corridor 10, because of these roads that are projected below, and it didn't fit the car count and the toll collection throughout the month. It was suspected, it applied to the M.O.P. and the M.O.P. went into investigative operations, and after a few months, what was discovered was that they had a room and carried money there, etc., shared it with each other, and that's in the course of the trial. The process is under way and it has nothing to do with the political parties that are now in power. I asked the MUP and Biya if any of the directors involved. I got the answer that he didn't. If he were involved at the same time, he would have been removed and conducted. Please, let's not mix it up now and I repeat, it's something that lasted 16 years in total. These people who have been arrested they've been working there for 15-20 years and that's one chain that's worked for years and thank God it's over. Of course, banks control loans, set up their supervisory authorities, we set up our own, budgets all control normal, and if there are any irregularities in the realization of this matter, we can see. International tenders go, there is control and pay is paid, I repeat, never to pay the Railways, not to the Ministry, not to the Government, directly to the bank, to the contractor, who gets a job in the tender in situations. That's right on the roads. All international credit routes are done by paying the situation to a contractor who gets a job in an international tender. Please don't interfere. The one single dinar does not enter the company, neither the government nor the ministry, nor approaches the budget. It's the money that's entirely in the situation. We're working the Beshko Bridge now. The Beška Bridge is paid according to situations that are being achieved directly by the contractors. We don't have anything to do with it. The bank's transporting situations in the tranches. And we've got to respect it, otherwise our loan's coming down. That's all, and I think we've worked well together, and it's good that the railway issue has been raised, and it's good that we've been discussing the railway. No one ever found it appropriate to listen, to talk about the railways, that's one big problem in the state, and this is one serious question. I'm glad that you've all participated in these discussions and that we've spoken very correctly in this way. Of course, there was politics and politicization, and that's something to follow. Camping's getting closer and everyone's running their campaign. Thank you for your cooperation and welcome. I'm glad we started this one serious issue and talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8185	I am concluding a joint single search on points 26 to 30 of the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure - National MP Slavisa Topalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8186	Mr. Minister, if you could just give me a second. You said you didn't tell Loparinco about the bridge and the airport. In 2006, in June, local elections for the president, the second round, you were there, look at those tapes of yours, because you probably won't admit it. Here, let me remind you what you said yesterday. Okay Ilic: "You remember, Cedo, when you took DOS to lunch, the first house where there was a pool in the living room, so to this monster from Old Paz, I think the government was, but he didn't bring the bathing suit, did he? We went and we didn't know where we were going, because you led us as the leader of the DOS. "Probably Velimir Ilic will not say that he said this. There's more about Vesna Pesic, about Mexico, about getting married, I don't know if he said it yesterday, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8187	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8188	I thought as long as Mr. Minister is here, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, only around the Leskovac-border crossing with Macedonia. It's not absolutely true that he's not being carried out because of price misunderstandings, even compensation for land at all. The fact is that in 2003, a job was entered without documentation, owned by citizens and owners without proper documentation. Otherwise, if it's a state interest and if the state wants to build that highway, it knows what legal procedures they are. Let's just take an example of the border crossing, it's built, and compensation is done to citizens through court proceedings 10 years later. So we absolutely do not accept the serious answer that it gave up construction of the Leskovac-border crossing highway due to compensation problems. He's had problems, he's had such problems since 1992 when the border crossing was built, but it can be solved. However, it is likely that some other interest was found in another area to build, not in that area, and in no case do I think it is not and that there is no excuse that Mr. Minister has given for a moment. Otherwise, I agree with this part, if it's really taken seriously, that something is done more effectively and more seriously around those spring crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-16-0.u8189	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. That's what we do today's work. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 Members of the People. To determine the number of MPs, please be present to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandra Jerkov, Dusan Mrvos, Cedomir Jovanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. By unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in the agenda of points 31 and 32 and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 160(3) and Article 94 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs belonging to the parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. We move to the 31st-32nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON DECLARATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE CITIZER AND THE CITIZER OF CITIZENS According to Article 160(2) and (3) and in accordance with Article 140(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint search on items 31 and 32 of the agenda. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Dragan Todorovic. After him, Momir Markovic, then Nemanja Sarovic, two SPS MPs, then Vjerica Radet.
