ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no Mr. Djelic. So we got off on the wrong foot a dozen days ago, it would be our turn to answer those questions that were asked to him today. I'm going to ask those questions one more time before I explain this amendment. The law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process proposed and in the procedure is an important law. For no reason, people accuse Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and Djelic of giving free action to Serbian citizens. They should not be accused of it, for the simple reason it is a legal obligation, laid down by the Law on Privatisation in 2001. The obligation was then established to share free shares with all Serbian citizens, when the privatisation process ends, which means after four years. I want to point out once again that the way it seems isn't fair. We also reacted when the law was passed, even now. In fact, the legal obligation stemmed from the Law on Privatisation in 2001 is to give those actions free of charge to all Serbian citizens equally. We don't think that's fair. We believe that it is fairer that participation in the free share of actions is proportionate to the work contribution, years of internships. I mean those who haven't earned the right to action in their businesses. Why do we think that? Because it is a national asset in terms of the capital of these companies, which has been created for generations, and people who have more work experience, have made a greater contribution to it. Of course, you should also have those who are just beginning a working century, that's not controversial. Dispute is that no rock has been built to divide it for all citizens towards work. Another question we expect from Mr Djelic, and we have no objection to Mr Dinkic, is the view of selling public enterprises, given that the Law on Free Action says that, parallel to this law, the concept of privatisation of public enterprises will go. I repeat the SPS position when it comes to strategic public enterprises – we are against the majority sales of these companies, or we are asking for the state to remain the owner of at least 51%. The third question I have asked and to which I seek the answer today – this law repeals Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises. I want to inform the public that a member of the 9th Law on Public Enterprises is more favourable than this Act on Free Action. In fact, Mr Dinkic remembers, he explained the law in 2005, it is true that an amendment, or Article 9a, was introduced at the request of the SPS. It was a time when the SPS supported the government and it was then conditioned the adoption of the law by the adoption of Article 9a. What does Article 9a say? Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises says that 15% of public enterprises' actions are transferred to the Privatization Register, i.e. to be shared free of charge to citizens, to share up to 15% of employees in public enterprises, and to transfer the rest to the Privatization Register, which will also serve as a share of citizens. I want the public to know that this law provides for only 15%, not the rest that remains when it is distributed to workers employed in public enterprises. It's these three very important questions I'm looking for an answer to. When it comes to Article 2, which speaks of the rightholder, we believe that there are a lot of reasons to intervene in this article because a whole series of conditions that need to be met are also double, and I think it's hiding somewhere by introducing these new conditions. It is said that the right is being exercised by persons who turned 18 on 31 December, who were citizens of Serbia on 30 June 2007 (as far as I know, the Privatisation Committee revised it on 31 December 2007), who on 30 June 2007, had their residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that the right to action without compensation had not been partially or in general in accordance with the Law on their own transformation or the Law on Privatisation, that they were entered in the register of rightholders, etc. What do we think is too high here? And I'm looking for an explanation of why that is. Here in Article 2, point 1) states that, in accordance with this law, the rights are granted by persons who meet the following conditions - that they have completed 18 years of life on 31 December 2007 and that on the day of their status, the rightholder was entered in the electoral list of competent municipal authorities. I ask the question to Mr. Minister: Why was this provision 'and that on the day of the status of the right holder was entered in the electoral list of competent municipal authorities'? The voter's list is a public document that serves to give a citizen the right to vote or vote, so that he can be elected or elected. Here it is introduced as a condition that it can get action – if it is in the voter's list. I ask the question: Is there any right of citizens to be or can be achieved where the condition is that a citizen is listed in the electoral list, of course, except for that electoral or electoral right? Is there other situations that require a condition for a citizen to exercise his right to be on the electoral list? Is it possible that someone cannot exercise his right, again, except for the electoral and electoral rights, if not in the voter's list? On the other hand, if someone is in the polling list, then it is too much to state as a condition to be 18 years old, then it is too much to say here as a condition that they have a place of residence, then it is too much to be a citizen of Serbia. But also, that makes one big injustice and I want to get here, too, that's the fifth question, from Mr. Minister's answer. In Serbia, at least tens of thousands live, if not more, people born in Serbia, educated in Serbia, worked in Serbia and were citizens first of the SFRY, then SRJ, and so SCG. It was totally legal back then. Since last year, when Montenegro separated, they have been able to seek Serbian citizenship. Many of them filed a request last year, and they still haven't received an answer. They will be eliminated from this law, i.e. they will not exercise the right to free action. We think that this is a great injustice and that there should be some solution that will allow all Serbian citizens who, as a result, have had their residence in Serbia for so long, who have exercised electoral rights in Serbia, were in the electoral list in Serbia, who have been educated and worked in Serbia, but, legally, by law, had the citizenship of Yugoslavia, one, the other, or Serbia-Montenegro. We think it's another great injustice that seems to these people. That is why I call for (of course we have also invested a special amendment in this matter), as is required way and way out of the situation where the people of the refugees who acquire citizenship have the right, as well as displaced and exiled persons, so these people should also have the right to free action. Otherwise, an example may occur to us that someone moved to Serbia early this year, took citizenship, entered the voter's list, and will equally compete for free action, while these people from other republics, above all from Montenegro, will not have the right to share free actions. We are asking, firstly, to explain what is essential in this article of the law that the electoral list is also required as a condition. Secondly, if it is already a voter list, then why is it not just a voter list, because it contains all these conditions that are listed - 18 years of life, residence, citizenship, etc. - and we demand that that provision be deleted. We do not think that it is possible to achieve one right by having someone listed in the voter's list, which serves to exercise electoral or electoral rights. We are looking for an answer and a way to resolve this issue of a large number of people who had citizenship of the republic outside Serbia, above all Montenegro, lived for years in Serbia, not to get into a situation that they could not exercise the right to free action. I call on the MPs to vote in favour of these amendments when it comes to the day of the vote, and on behalf of the Minister, when he finds it appropriate in the course of this debate, to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14929	Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14930	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, to answer these questions. First -- why is it that everyone equally, why is it that all full-year citizens have the right to equal shares in all these public enterprises? Because these public enterprises didn't build one generation. They've been built for generations. How? By paying all Serbian citizens the tax from which these public enterprises were built. Sometimes public companies also had debts, so they covered themselves with taxpayers' money. Some of the people who have built these companies are not among the living today, and it is only fair that their children acquire the right to these free actions. So that was one criterion. We wanted equality between generations, given that credit for what is now the value of these public enterprises is not only one generation, but also those generations that are not among us today, and then their successors, of course, should benefit from that. Another thing, if the criteria were working century, then only employees would have the right to this privilege. I don't think that's right because in Serbia, sometimes it's not easy to get a job, so we decided that both students and unemployed have the right to free action. If we were to introduce a standard of years of life, we'd have to reintroduce some coefficients. There would be a very large difference in the amount of actions that one of 18 and one of 118 would receive. Everyone would have wondered if his neighbor had gotten more, if he hadn't agreed to change the age of his birth or manipulated some things. In any case, technically, it's much simpler for everyone to get the same because when they all get the same, then everybody gets the same thing. We also came from the fact that there are young and middle-generation and older in one family, and that someone who is a father or a mother should not be jealous of their son or daughter and that they should all equally share what they are for generations through the separation of contributions and taxes for the construction of these enterprises. It was a basic criterion why we decided that everyone would get the same, although of course, there was a basis and that those who worked longer and contributed to it. It's quite clear, but this was our criterion for why we defined ourselves for, however, everyone equally. Given that we have defined ourselves as a criterion for all adult citizens, the next question is anyone can gain the right to do so. If we had said only residents, citizens of taxpayers, we would have excluded one part of our citizens because they are not all taxpayers. Students aren't taxpayers, they're unemployed, too. Why was the voter list introduced as a basis? And let me point out -- voter's list on the day of the recording. All those who gain their age by the end of this year and are not included in the voter's list will be able to enroll in the voter list for six months as long as, at least, under this law, the duration of the registration. So, it doesn't have to be included in the voter's list today, it has to be entered at the time when the request to register is filed. So, it'll be six months from the day of the call. Why that criterion? Because those citizens who live in Serbia, who do not want to be included in the voter list, do not want to exercise their electoral right, do not actually recognise the state of Serbia. Kosovo Albanians are not in the voter lists. Obviously because they do not want to participate in the governmental elections in Serbia. This was the reason for the voter list's criteria – that only those who, although they do not have to exercise electoral rights, but who have it by being listed in the voter's list, respect their country, the state of Serbia that gives free action. That is why we have introduced the criteria of the electoral list in this law. It's a similar criterion, I must say, in the law of old foreign currency savings. So you asked which law has a similar provision regarding the criteria for the exercise of rights. Finally, you have asked a question about those citizens who have not yet received citizenship. We have proposed, the Privatisation Committee has essentially accepted this and the Privatisation Committee has submitted an amendment that all those who gain citizenship on the date of the law's entry into force will exercise this right. So our original proposal, governmental, was that all those who were citizens of Serbia on 30.06. this year have the right to these actions, and now, with the amendment of the Privatisation Committee adopted by the government, all those who acquired citizenship on the date of the law's entry into force, which means by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14931	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Replica, MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we did not ask for free actions to be divided only to employees, on the contrary – to all citizens of Serbia, but we sought a fairer principle within that. So, you should get free action and students, and unemployed, and farmers, and registered, and unregistered, etc., but I think it would be fairer if some scale was made. After all, you yourself have directed the experience of Slovenia in this regard. Secondly, your explanation of the voter's list is also your bill. We don't think that's right. Third, Mr. Minister, it's okay that you moved from the end of June to the end of December of this year that someone got citizenship. But, please, Mr. Minister, those citizens who, as you say are not Serbian residents, were legal citizens of Serbia until last year, and now, and they paid taxes, and they voted, and they had a place to live, they had it all. And do you know that after two or three years, they still don't get an answer for citizenship? Why is there no longer for them, that we may not be unjust toward these people? It's about tens of thousands of people. Taxes were paid here, they voted here, they were taught here, they were educated here, they were employed here, etc. All the time until the status change last year. They have applied for citizenship, however, a large number of them cannot get it for a long time, probably because of the sloppy administration that needs to solve it. I don't think it's good just to cut it and say it – no, it's past 31 December, you don't have the right to do it. You remain in debt, Mr. Minister, to answer the question of privatising public enterprises strategically and interpreting Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises, which says that 15% of shares are shared free of charge and employees in public enterprises up to 15%, and the rest is transferred to the Privatization Register for the sake of sharing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14933	The word, according to the amendment, has the People's MP Verica Radet, and then the MP Meho Omerovic. Mr. Omerovic, did you make a mistake, perhaps, since this is the amendment to Milisava Petronijevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14934	Mr. Albianic, did you get any sleep? How can you ask an MP if he was wrong to answer the word? Unbelievable! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law, as the people already call it - "O free action", is a simple pre-election trick. Article 2 is just proof that everyone who thinks so is right, and Mr Dinkic's explanation was about as if actions were some kind of social giving. It's an explanation, Minister, and unprofessional, and unserious, populist, and believe that what you've said no one can believe. I will now, on the basis of the amendment of my colleague Petronivic, on the basis of the government's reply why this amendment does not accept, explain the essence of this bill of yours. Article 2 lists the conditions to be met in order to exercise the right to free action. Then you say, I will especially talk about this first position and point 1 on which the amendment was submitted, but before I remind you of point 2 where you said: persons who were citizens of the Republic of Serbia on 30 June 2007. You heard a colleague here, Petronijevic, talking about Serbs from Montenegro, and I will also talk about the problem of Serbs from Republika Srpska. Do you know, Mr. Minister, how many Serbs from Republika Srpska have lived in Serbia for 15 years? They're employed here, they have houses here, they're definitely here and they're permanently left to live, and they don't get citizenship. Not because they don't want to get it, but because you share citizenship depending on your assessment who will vote for DOS and who will vote for someone else. For the same reason, Serbs from Montenegro do not get citizenship. I don't know if you in the government of the Republic of Serbia have such knowledge and that information, Mr. Minister, has been passed here a law that allegedly allows Serbs from Montenegro to gain citizenship. Still a minister, your counterpart, Jocic has not issued an appropriate sublaw and forms on which to apply at all and still Serbs from Montenegro do not get citizenship. They therefore lived here, live here, are Serbs, recognise Serbia as their own country, but in this bill of yours there are none. They may have spent a lifetime here, but they're not in your law because you, only when you have to make a declaration, then you recognize the rights of many, and when it has to be implemented in practice, then you are what the DOS actually is. You are only interested in your chairs, you are only interested in how to reach some target group that will allow you to continue sitting in your chairs, and by cheating on most Serbian citizens, you deceive most of the citizens of Serbia – of course you are not interested in it at all. When it comes to Serbs from the Serbian Krajina, Mr. Minister, I also don't know if you have any knowledge of how you are stalling and refusing to issue citizenship to Serbs from Republika Srpska. You are asking people who are on any secret or public lists of Croatia that they must go to take the original documents not older than six months to issue Serbian citizenship even though they have been living here for 15 years. You remember how many tens of thousands of demands have literally disappeared, actually you made them disappear after the Dosmanian Bulldozer of the Revolution, you said they were burned, I don't know if you set them on fire. Since you've burned down the Federal Assembly, the Radio-Television Building, it's also possible that you've brought these people's demands because you knew that they would never vote for anyone in DOS in your life. Furthermore, in point 3, you say that the right to action has all persons who, on 30 June 2007, had residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the status of a temporarily displaced person from Kosovo and Metohija. Doesn't this look too high behind your wrist, Mr. Minister? If you say someone has a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I suppose we also mean that it applies to temporarily displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. Do you not consider Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Minister, the territory of the Republic of Serbia? This is very symptomatic. A little bit so there are either some international agreements or, here, the text of the law, where you are slowly pushing that Kosovo and Metohija may, in your opinion, not be part of the Republic of Serbia. Is that why it's almost 11 o'clock, and tomorrow at this hour we have to discuss the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, we, MPs, still don't have the text of that resolution? Mr. Minister, it's dangerous what you wrote, what you suggested in this law. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dinkic, and you must not say it in any regulation at all as controversial. And it's not good for you to have this in this law. Now about what counterpart Milisav Petronijevic asked in his amendment to be deleted, that actions should be given to persons who were listed on the day of the status of rightholders in the electoral list of competent municipal authorities. This is what I said before. You are now trying to deceive a target group of young people by telling them to sign up, vote for your candidate and get 1,000 euros on behalf of it. Of course, he won't get that money. After all, your colleague Djelic said it would only be a recording of the actions – and when will they be realized? - one day, and maybe never. And it is not a problem that you insist, in one way or another, that all citizens of Serbia are enlisted in the voter's list. We Serbian radicals, from the very beginning, have advocated that all citizens be included in the voter's list and advocate a single voter list. When we have a single polling list, then what is written in this bill can stand, and then it can stand for your explanation, Mr. Minister, where you wrote that the amendment is not accepted because the electoral list of competent municipal authorities represents a reliable list of potential rightholders who will be taken as a starting database when writing into the register of rightholders. This is simply not true. The voter list is a completely unreliable list, Mr. Dinkic, and we know it best, I suppose, and people from other parties. On the day of each election, I am on duty in the SRS from six o'clock in the morning until the election is over and, believe me, I get hundreds of calls, and all my colleagues across Serbia, from citizens who say -- last time I voted, they've now deleted me, I'm not in the voter's list. Reportedly, they're bringing dozens of calls to the voters who died a long time ago. The person who turned 18, if they don't go and enlist themselves, most often they're not included in the voter's list. You have an overview of the voter lists where you hold power in local self-governments, you change election units, you coordinate according to what suits you based on the election results you get and what you have, you make artificial election units, you delete from the list of people you know are voting for the SRS. I remind you that in the last elections he was not listed in the list of older son Tomislav Nikolic. That's what we talked about after that election. You can't imagine that Tomislav Nikolic's son didn't vote in every election, can you? Of course he did, but in the last election he was removed from the ballot list. So, voting lists not that are not reliable, but they serve you for manipulation, and especially now you want to use them for that purpose when it comes to enrolling so-called. free action. Do something with your colleagues from the Department of State and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of the Interior. I remind you, you did not have a party at the time, in 2000, before the elections, in the election campaign, the members of the RIK from the SRS advocated a unique voter list and then they supported the members of the RIK from the then DOS, together with us fighting for it. When you won power, you no longer needed a unique electoral list. Then, here you have been telling us for seven years that the collection of lists by local units is a unique voter list. Of course not. I repeat, they don't get wiped out by automatism, they don't sign up for automatism, they don't change by automatism of the address. The same face can be listed in the polling list in both the Old Town and Lazarevec, for example, which means that, given the distance, it can vote in both the Old Town and Lazarjevac, regardless of the spray you say can wash well with soap. So don't deceive Serbian citizens, Mr Dinkic. No one trusts you, either personally, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or Boris Tadic anymore. It's a waste of your time and this attempt... (Chairman: Please, Mrs. Radeta, don't exaggerate. ) Perhaps you, Mr Albianic, believe me, but I speak for the majority of Serbian citizens, whom I confidently know who they trust and who they will trust with all their heart in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14935	We'll see about that, anyway. The word is by MP Meho Omerovic and then by MP Vladan Batic. Please, Mr. Markovic, don't throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14936	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law on the right to free action and the financial compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. I think the proposed law and opportunity, in fact, is the best way for the state and government to show how they treat each other equally and how they treat all citizens equally, especially those citizens who are socially endangered or those who, in one way or another, are having a hard time living and who, after the adoption of this law, will be welcome as some kind of, I would say, and financial assistance. I suggested adding a new position in Article 2 behind Article 1, which reads: "The rights under this law are also exercised by persons whose competent republican authority has established the status of the refugees from the former republics of the SFRY, if they have submitted an application for admission or have gained citizenship of the Republic of Serbia by 30 June 2007, that they have completed 18 years of life with 31 December 2007, that they had their residence on 30 June 2007 or residence on the territory of the Republic and if they fulfil the conditions laid down in points 4 and 5 of Article 1 of the Article". I would remind you that there are about 990,000 persons in the Republic of Serbia with recognised refugee status from former SFRY republics. More than 200,000 refugees have been admitted into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia over the last 15 years, and most of them have a personal map, so they meet the conditions set out in Article 2 of the proposed law. However, with this amendment, I would also like to include those refugees who acquired citizenship of the Republic of Serbia on 30 June 2007, and have not yet obtained a personal map of the Republic of Serbia, or have submitted an application by 30 June for accession to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia for integration into our society. I would like to remind fellow MPs and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, the Republic of Serbia, the National Strategy for resolving issues of refugees and internally displaced persons, I underline commitments, that it will help refugees, both those who wish to return to the country of origin and those who intend to integrate into the state of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous meeting submitted a proposal to us, MPs of the Serbian Parliament, on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, which, in accordance with this strategy, established the state's obligations to help those refugees and members of their family households who applied or gained citizenship from the Republic of Serbia in order to integrate them. Unfortunately, for well-known reasons, the government of the Republic of Serbia in the current assembly has withdrawn all laws, including this law on refugees and displaced persons. The need to take action and measures towards this socially endangered group stems from an assessment, I would remind all fellow MPs that 25% of refugees in the state of Serbia belong to the category of the poorest, which is twice as much as that percentage in Serbia's domestic, domestic population. The rate of unemployment of refugees and other vulnerable groups is higher than twice the average unemployment rate of the Serbian state's population. In the refugee population, so-called long-term unemployment, and it is also important that unemployed people take part in the first job. The social-economic situation of refugees is even more difficult, they are even more vulnerable because 45% live in rented apartments and unemployment rates, with growth trend, among the remaining refugees are 58% registered for 2004-2005. Therefore, the poverty reduction strategy stressed that the definition of new programmes and activities directed towards refugees, as one of the socially vulnerable groups, is one of the strategic directions of action to reduce Serbia's state poverty. With this amendment, I want, because motivation is exactly like that, that these strategic objectives, which the state and government of the Republic of Serbia have set, help, in some way, to economic independence and empower those refugees that have been identified for integration into the state of Serbia, as a permanent solution to their refugee status, or their problem. This amendment does not cover persons who today have refugee status in Serbia, but only those who have clearly expressed their intention to integrate into Serbia, and the criteria that we recognise their intention were adopted, that those persons were admitted or applied for entry into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia on 30 June 2007. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14937	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. This is not the amendment of MP Meha Omerovic, but the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic. Mr. Batic, if you'll excuse me for a moment, just so we understand each other. Mr Meho Omerovic spoke about the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic and used the time to call on his amendment, which was a little earlier, to the same member. Mr. Omerovic, was I accurate?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14938	You make the arrangements, and I'll call you when the minister's here. Chat somewhere else. Learn order already.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14939	I'm sorry, Mr. Batic, there's been a misunderstanding. Does anyone else appear by amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 21 and Article 52(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14940	Mr. Albian, I wouldn't miss this for the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to congratulate all the citizens of Serbia who celebrate Christmas today on this great holiday and to wish that in the ecumenic atmosphere, members of all the religious communities in Serbia continue to live together in our great and wonderful country. Before I say anything about the amendment, let me repeat a few views from the principle story, because of the Socialist Party of Serbia. So we've submitted a number of amendments, working with different unions on this job. Since the amendments were such content that the government simply could not refuse them, G17 plus then submitted amendments in the same text. Since it was not convenient for the government to accept their and our refusals, then the G17 plus its amendments withdrew, and the government submitted amendments in the same text as the SPS amendments. We're not disgusted with the government's amendments and we don't have any problem with that. It is important to us that the principles that we advocate are embedded in the basic text of the law, and with this, we do not compromise with anyone, except that we are in the middle of a government that prevents one opposition political party from making political points. Our job is to do it and we'll always do it, but it's our duty to explain how it happened and it's a clean position. We will do so both in the future and in every way try to explain to people how these amendments came to be accepted. Therefore, respected citizens of Serbia, almost all the amendments submitted by the SPS will be accepted, except, with the explanation I have now given, later written by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as its own. They're plagiarizers. We'll sue them under the Copyright Act. Mr. Grouchy, good afternoon. On Friday, at 14.00 p.m., in the large hall of the House of Culture in Cačka, there will be the first major promotion in the interior. Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic, the great builder, will have the opportunity to address the citizens of Cačka, and today we will make it official here. I don't want to talk about it anymore. I'm sorry. Why did I submit an amendment to Article 2? For two reasons. I'll withdraw the amendment after the argument, that's not the problem. Let the citizens of Serbia understand, I will read it: "In Article 2. The draft law, item 1 point 1), is finally deleted and the following text is added: 'and the vote for G17 Plus;'. ''Reason: Since the bill's intention is to provide voters, then it should be clearly stated in the law as one of the necessary conditions for the right to free action. Considering that it was also legally possible to amend MP Nenada Chanka to Article 66. The law on defence, which asked the government to establish a military tourism programme, I felt that respected colleagues from the Legislative Committee would say that my amendment was also legally possible. But, of course, the Legislative Committee said that this amendment is not legally possible, but it is a legally possible amendment from Mr. Chank that asked for you to pay several hundred or thousands of euros to fire from the tank, from the cannon, that, as he said, you ride the malls, etc. Dear colleagues from the Legislative Committee must know (that is, my colleagues, I am a member of the Legislative Committee) that there are no different arches for the same things. As impossible as that amendment, of course it's impossible. I mean, that someone wouldn't put me in the messengers of the ignorant, if I knew what the Legislative Committee would say when it comes to my amendment, but I expected him to say the same thing when it comes to Mr Chank's amendment. Here I used one legitimate political tool for the legitimate political struggle of atypical character. So I turned my attention to one phenomenon and one intention. The intention is for the G17 to try more than one number of people to vote for them, and in that context is this story of the voter lists. I'd be ignorant if I didn't recognize it. Don't expect me to be that. And the intention is what I was talking about. Therefore, the Legislative Committee does not have the same archbishops when it comes to amendments of different Members of Parliament, or MPs from different parliamentary groups. If there was a minister, I'd have two or three more questions for him. One thing is (one Polish tone) – it is not true that this principle of equality in free division has always been a principle. Because when the Privatisation Act was passed, to privatise social enterprises, it was said - employees in these companies have 30% shares, not members of all the generations that built them. Look at you, and these companies have been building people for at least three generations. So there is no analogy between these two laws and between these two principles. Don't expect us to understand that. We understand that, that's why we're here to understand that. That's why we've written these numerous amendments that we're trying to solve some of these issues that are open here, which the government has closed with its amendments, believing it's a political pity for the SPS. On the contrary, we are happy that these amendments have been accepted, and we will each know that under what circumstances they have been accepted. So they were accepted voluntarily in the presence of the government -- that's a famous line from many decades ago, and it fits very well in this whole story. So, Mr. Vice President, I'm withdrawing the amendment to Article 2 I've submitted. My mission with regard to this amendment has been completed. This is a historic amendment, I will keep it for a long time and leave it in the legacy of the SPS as a method of political action because there are really laws that some political parties who exercise power are trying to wake up a number of voters who otherwise do not vote or in some way motivate them to vote for them because they represent themselves as public defenders of their interests by proposing appropriate laws. I would also like to say that the MPs of the SPS today, in a completely constructive atmosphere, will discuss the amendments, and allow us to submit his candidacy to the Republic Election Commission together with our other Milutin Mrkonjic, and to go into one big job. Serbia deserves such a president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14941	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Please note in the record that MP Rajko Baralic withdrew the amendment to Article 2. This amendment is not to be voted on in voter day. The word has a people's Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14942	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman – where is Minister Dinkic? You expect us not to report for an article. 225 and 226, and that the MPs are doing what is right for you, so that this debate will be concluded as soon as possible. But how can amendments be discussed when there is no minister? I would ask you to ask professional services for the minister to come so that we can explain the amendments in the most operational and qualitative way possible and get answers to some questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14943	Thank you, Mr. Marash. There's a minister in the building. We'll let him know right away. National MP Vladan Batic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14944	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposed law is an expression of cheap populism, calculated to score cheap political points, and I think that Mao Cedung would be too pleased if he saw this creation that represents the law -- they're all equal, they're all the same, they're all the same, they're all the same. Although it is clear to everyone that this law will never be applied. I'm even surprised at the way things are going up and trying to change the amendments because, "The way the coat of arms is born doesn't make the time right." It's clear to all of us that he's been built on the principle of "not a smoother donkey to green grass" and as soon as the government is changed, this law will be amended or will end up in some waste basket. It is clear to all of us that it is a sweet fraud, fog, smoke curtain, as is this resolution that will be held before this Parliament tomorrow and which we are setting the ultimatum for the European Union. And since this law, in fact, is not a division of any action but a bill on granting social assistance to all Serbian citizens, we will probably need social assistance and will need it because Serbia will be hermetically closed, and all its citizens are, with the exception of government tycoons and their loved ones, social cases. Since, on the other hand, it's said that we're not going to eat roots because we have China, India, Indonesia, Mongolia and Cuba on our side, then we're going to really need social assistance. I wanted to ask the minister, it's a shame he's not here, but I'm going to ask these questions when he's here, and he's in charge of answering me right away, "Will actions be shared by employees in the Senta tobacco factory, who was privatized by "Japan Tobacco International"? That's my question. And then the question for Mr Dinkic -- did he open a tobacco factory in Senta, and what does it have to do with it (then he was the finance minister) the finance minister with the opening of the tobacco factory? Then, is it true that in October 2005, during the opening of a tender for the sale of the tobacco factory in Senta, Mr Dinkic, then the finance minister, visited Japan, that is, Japan Tobacco, did he run a series of journalists and did the costs paid to those journalists "Japan Tobacco"? Is it normal for you to visit and promote one of the participants in a privatisation tender for the factory in Senta? I wanted to ask Minister Dinkic and did he know that the promoter of the firm "Japan Tobacco" was a company called FIA, whose members and representatives and officials and directors were Lord Armstrong, Jessica de Grasi, Vincent Pic, and for Balkan Vukasin Wolf Minic. In this regard, is this letter, sent to him by Lord Armstrong on January 5, 2001, with a proposal that FIA, the same one that promotes the Japan Tobacco factory, is engaged in finding our money in Cyprus, and before that, on December 14, 2000, did he have a meeting with David Landsman, head of British mission in Belgrade, Jessica de Grasia, director of FIA at the time, and Vukashan Wolf Minić, who was FIA representative for the Balkans? At that time, as governor of the National Bank, after this letter he received from Lord Armstrong, Mr Dinkic concluded a contract with the FIA, which, therefore, was also a promoter of Japan Tobacco, to seek out our money in Cyprus? How much money was paid to the FIA, how many hundred thousand pounds? Did the FIA find anything? What was that money spent on? So, did he close the deal, how much money and how much money was paid to the FIA?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14945	Mr. Batic, I have to interrupt you to warn you that under Article 103. The Rules of Procedure can only talk about the issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14946	That's right, this question is on the agenda because I'm asking if the free share of the stock will apply to employees of the Senta tobacco factory, and then I'm explaining why I'm asking that. It's clear that you never understand anything, so refrain from trying to stop me. I'm just finishing up a set of questions right now. The Minister Dinkic, for these questions, has been vehemently announcing some lawsuits against me, hearing that he sued me, so that nicely, "face to face," I ask that he answer me these questions, to see if I'm making up anything and lying or this is true, and it's about action. So, is Mr Dinkic familiar with who was FIA representative, say, in Macedonia, does the sound name Costa Jankovski mean to him, where did this man end up? Does he know that the entire FIA has been torn apart, half its directors have been arrested around the world, the other half on BOLOs? The same agency he contracted to look for our money in Cyprus. Does he know that FIA's representative for Kosovo and Metohija was Ekrem Luka, Financer Ramush Haradinaj? Does he know that the man who was his partner in this business, Vukasin Wolf Minić, was heard as a witness in court, said that the entire FIA engagement was on the discreditment of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, that the FIA hired Ivo Pukanic and "National" to write a series of pamphlets to Zoran Djindjic for a simple reason when, as one of the first tasks of the government, Zoran Djindjic decided to stand in the way of illegal tobacco trade and announced the construction of the Bat factory in Serbia, the factory Rovinj and "Japan Tobacco", which were the main creators of the tobacco trade in these areas? So the strategic goal of FIA, which was hired by "Japan Tobacco" and Mladjan Dinkic, was to discredit the government and Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic himself, whom they called a smuggler, a trader, a tobacco smuggler, etc. There is a written confession by Wolf Minic given in court on these circumstances. I expect a direct answer from Minister Dinkic because I assume he knows the answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14947	Mr. Batic, I told you that according to Article 103, the speaker should talk about what's on the agenda. These structures are primarily for the court, they don't belong in parliament. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh, after the amendment. Please, but I remind you that the amendment has been withdrawn, which means it is no longer in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have to deal specifically with Article 2 of this bill, given that it defines rightholders. The rights holders provided for in this proposal are incomplete. We don't have one category of population I've already talked about in principle. It is about refugees, the refugee population and the problems refugees have in terms of the exercise of certain acquired rights, similar and international law, as well as the internal law of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, refugees have been entitled to free share of shares or a privatisation fee according to international law and I say to the internal law of the 1990s. Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia have achieved this right in the Socialist Republic of Croatia. They've been denied the possibility of war crimes by genocide and ethnic cleansing. The Serbs have been expelled. They did not do so in Croatia, and now I will explain to you how the Croats did it. In the 1990s, Croatians have made privatisation, and today they are privatising, privatisation and the possibility of obtaining certain rights based on privatisation has been defined by their laws, but it is impossible for Serbs to participate in the privatisation, due to persecution and ethnic cleansing. The process of disabling Serbs from participating in privatisation is now being done by this law. They're not here. According to the 1990 Statistical Yearbook of the Republic of Croatia, the total value of all property, social, state property in Croatia was 126.000,000,000 then German marks. The participation of Serbs in the total population in the Republic of Croatia was 12.8%. If we multiply this sum of the total value of state and social capital assets by the number of Serbs, then we come up with a value of 16 billion marks or an equivalent of the euro. It's a huge value, which belongs to Serbs. It's about acquired law. The property acquired, the right to participate in the privatisation of social and state property, regulates the Sucession Agreement. All countries of the former SFRY have signed a Sucession Agreement, ratified it in national parliaments, and it is now an integral part of the legal system of all states. The rights that Serbs from the Republic of Croatia have acquired, it is acquired by the provisions of the Treaty on Succession. It belongs to Serbs and it is discriminatory by this house, this home, to cast out refugees who did not exercise their right in the Republic of Croatia. They couldn't physically go there because of genocide and ethnic cleansing. We are now making it impossible for these people to exercise that right. My proposal, proposed by the government of the Republika Srpska in persecution, is that this house, this state, recognises what belongs to them under international law and installs them in Article 2 of this bill so that they can achieve this right. It is far less than what Serbs would have achieved if they could have participated in Croatia. It is a discriminatory policy of the Republic of Croatia, and we continue to have such a policy. My proposal is to install in Article 2 a provision under which this right will have all the refugees who have acquired that status, no matter what day, one of them has won it in 1990, one in 1991, the other in 1995, etc., and to this day and today they have the right to do so internationally. You can't deny it to these people. Or you can, and you probably won't install it, but you're committing a violation of both international law and internal law. The conflict agreement has been ratified by this home, it is an integral part of national legislation and that right belongs to the Serb exiles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14949	National MP Bojan Milovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Bojan Milovanovic. Let's just give the word after the amendment, and then they'll get the word of the People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14950	Mr. Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs, and I, on behalf of the SPS, have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the law on the sharing of free actions, but my discussion is going exactly in the direction of my colleagues, Misa and Rajk, who say the largest number of amendments that the SPS has submitted through the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So we have one absurd thing, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia submits amendments after seeing the amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups. And it's strange that so many amendments are made by the government on its own bill, which is not correct at least. I have submitted the amendment: In Article 1(2), point 2), in the end, the point-to-point is replaced by a comma and they add the following words: "or they have submitted an application for accession to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia by that date." I would not explain this for long because the essence of this proposal is what the previous MPs have spoken of, which they have explained. What's the point? I listened very carefully to Mr. Secretary's explanation, and I'm not very lucky to ask him here specifically. He said that one of the things that the law represents is just continuity and one difficult solution, that everyone finds themselves and that such a law gives one equal and just picture. That is why I say, the largest number of people who have literally been born here or spent their working hours working in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the law that we have passed on citizenship this year, are unable to get free action. The proposal to bring this into line with the time of submission of the citizenship proposal would be the best proposal. However, it has been rejected with a very strange explanation that the government is unable to determine which of those who have sought the right to citizenship will get that right, so I have nothing else to add, except to say – the government is obliged to find a solution. Yesterday I was talking about the law on privatisation, precisely that the government very often resorts through its laws to a really bad solution, which is that when it doesn't see any legal possibility to come to a solution, it simply has a certain category of people, yesterday I spoke to a certain category of municipalities, at the very least just cross and delete from all those rights that belong to them under the Constitution and the law. It's part of the amendment. The second part of the amendment also refers to what Mr. Minister said, this is exactly the contradiction of all this. That is: In the same article, item 1 point 4), the words 'or partially' are deleted. I won't talk much about these legal matters, there are probably many more competent colleagues who will talk about it, but since the largest number of people affected by such a legal solution listens to this, I'm going to translate it around for those widest layers of society that are particularly interested in this. What's the point? The largest number of people who have entered and received a number of actions under the old law on their own transformation remain in a subordinate position because this law does not predict what will happen in such cases. In the light of the rejected amendment, it is said: "In the rest of the part, the amendment was meant to achieve an effect to be achieved by a series of amendments proposed by the Government." I really don't know what these amendments are, and I've come into a situation where, like my friend Rajko Baralic, I'm in a dilemma whether to withdraw this proposal or to remain like this. So that's some series of amendments that need this category of people to make it possible for their entire working life to mean up to retirement, just find room for action. The worst thing that could have happened is that people in the past period, so before 2000, according to the old Law on their own transformation, had put in action for one year, and thus did not exercise the right to do all this. I suggest that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if it is able, indeed, what Mr. Minister here was saying, and what Mr. Buha was talking about, find space for all people, because this is exactly the equality, and this is not what it is that someone connects that equality with some ideological concepts, but exactly, if that was the government's goal, then I think that these legal solutions, at the very least, are not good. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here. I wanted to ask him a few things about the Privatisation Act, because I wasn't lucky to speak in his presence these days. This is a small contribution and the constructiveity of our party. We're in a hurry, too. We're out of the dark, so we can finish that part with our other Dark before the deadline. Good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14951	Thank you. The word is from the MP Slobodan Maraš, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I thought you were flexible and moving on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14952	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Rule 87 of our Rules of Procedure. Mr. Albianic, this is the section relating to the session of the National Assembly, i.e. the opening of the session and participation in the session. Article 87 says that members of the government, the authorised representatives of other proposings and the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, or the director, as well as other persons invited by the president of the National Assembly, participate in meetings of the National Assembly. Your attempt to spend even more time before you give me your word, although I answered before you started after the previous amendment to debate, did not bring fruit. Minister Dinkic is not in the hall, and as far as I remember, three authorised ministers, or one of them was Vice-Presidents, and there were also Minister Bubalo and Minister Dinkic, these laws have been explained and announced as three ministers who will be sitting in the hall as long as we speak in principle and in particular. But we don't have any in the O.R. right now. Who are we talking to now, and who can we get answers from? You're not that person and no one in the ruling coalition is answering for a word. Underline again, no more than 15 in the O.R. I understand you're in a hurry to get this over with as soon as possible. However, we must make some order. Ask the minister to come. My amendment is next or after Mr. Shane's amendment. I want the minister there so he can answer some questions. Because you have problems in the ruling coalition or you have no problems in the ruling coalition, that's your problem. Mr Albianic, please invite Minister Dinkic to have someone here to discuss these amendments and present the reasons why we have submitted them and to say why the government's arguments do not stand. A little while ago, Mr. Milovanovic presented a surprise, and I am still surprised that he is surprised that the government has submitted so many amendments to its own law, i.e. why the government has taken over amendments of MPs from the opposition, so she proposed them as her own and eventually asked the Assembly to adopt them. The reason for that is very simple. This law, as well as the Privatisation Act, are apparently prepared for one night, with lots of falinka. The evidence is a large number of amendments submitted by a parliamentary group in the ruling coalition and which has tried, along with a minister who, of course, comes from these lines, to fix the law. One more time, please, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, ask Minister Dinkic to have someone from the government to discuss the amendments we have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14953	Thank you for your suggestions, Mr. Marash. I called the minister. The secretary of state just got into the O.R. The word has been given by MP Dusan Stupar, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14954	Mr. Vice President, honourable citizens, dear friends, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister is like a magician - the hour you see him, the hour you don't see him. That's how this bill of free action will be. You have them today, you don't have them tomorrow. Why is this law a problem? Here in the proposal that we received was supposed to stand not for the government to file, but G17 plus submitted, on the basis of Article 123, and then part of the government that contained those who in the previous period claimed that there were a number of irregularities in the voter list, so they came to a dispute with certain parliamentary groups, and then the voter list was carried to Europe, to the world, to show what irregularities are in the state of Serbia, today they agree to say that what was true a few years ago, that there was an anomaly in the voter list, that 600,000, 700,000, as many as 800,000 citizens, are in the voter list, today say - no, what we said a few years ago is not true, this last thing that was found in the voter list. Only, gentlemen, will I give an example of how the responsible state worked. I had a chance to get a mother before one election, not to mention her name and name, and to bring documents from the Starship Municipality to have a child born that year and have a copy from a birth certificate, and that same year her child dies and has a copy of the book of the dead and comes with an invitation to vote after 18 years. Here, gentlemen, what does that list look like and what we're talking about today. The voter list, dear citizens, is totally messy. As far as this famous law, where before the elections, Mr. Minister promises citizens free action, equality, social justice -- for seven years, gentlemen, after you came to power, to arrange this area, that everyone has the right, those who have worked, those who have acquired adulthood, has not occurred to you for seven years to do so. Seven years. Now, when the time came to think about whether in the next period you would have 5% of the censorship, when the local elections came, then you remembered to take the rubber – so I say the Minister of Magic, took the rubber and wiped out all the people who worked, created this country and built it, created conditions for future generations, had the chance to school, to have a job. In a few examples, I'm going to point out what kind of deception this is, fraud, robbery of Serbian citizens. I made a table, it can be introduced for every year of work as it looks. Before I read it, I will say what the citizens think, which we had the opportunity to hear what free share of shares means – that the law does not say that it will be a thousand euros. Nowhere in the law says there will be a thousand euros, but it is already seen that those who gain the right in the first division may receive 50 euros, and for the rest of the money no one guarantees that they will get them. As for the job, respected citizens, you who have worked fairly, who have invested your work and effort, and have provided us and our children with somewhere to work, look at what a robbery and fraud is when they say we're all equal. A married couple to five years of work will receive 2,000 euros. Of them, the state did not take anything, provided it acquired the right of 2,000 euros indeed to come true. A married couple who is 10 years old should receive 2 thousand euros, and based on 10 years of work experience, normally, young people, have no family yet, have no children, have two thousand euros to them by the state. A married couple who are on average 15 years of training, and they are not in a situation yet, because they are young, have no children, have the right to do the job, should have achieved their right and receive 6,000 euros. But the state gives them two thousand, and it takes four thousand euros. Now we come to a category of people who have an average of 20 years of employment, who have one adult child or two children. The state gives them three or four thousand euros, but it takes six thousand euros and says - we are equal. I guess it's normal, as a father of two children, it's normal to have children, but they're already taking 10,000 euros from my family, so it's natural that, as a responsible and serious father, I'm going to leave my children to have something to inherit, that they have something to start doing. We come to a generation of 25 years of internships on average, whether they have three or four children, they take 8,000 euros; 30 years of internships on average, whether they have one, two or three children, take 10,000 euros. In the end, 35 years of internships on average, whether they have one or two children, the state takes 12,000 euros from them. What law are we gentlemen talking about? Are we talking about that law that was published in the Official List that when I privatized my company, I would get a thousand euros, those who took care of us, and they took a nice and legal note of 5%, so I would take out a nice 160m euros from that privatisation of the company, then now with our money they buy these companies and then come here and hold a letter of justice, equality, to be happy and satisfied. A thousand euros for the poor. In 30 years of internships, respected citizens, that's 33.3 euros in a year. The biggest poor woman would give them 33 euros a year if she never saw them here again, see them in prison, where they deserved. Because this is the biggest robbery and public deception. In addition to the privatisation you've made, do you think it's normal to get rich on the back of this people, to privatize companies, to make brotherly privatisations, to allow your tycoons to become owners of life and death, to become white slaves in our own country? Do you think our children with these thousands of euros will be able to pay for college education? Gentlemen, that won't be enough for a year. So, you're practically making another scam and you think you'll get away with it with the people. Dear citizens, dear friends, you must consider the free share of actions and shares. You sit down with your kids, talk to them and see if it's normal for those of us who've worked for 20 or 30 years to wipe us out, that we're nowhere to go, and while they say, your kids are going to get a thousand euros, that's the future, that's the perspective. It is not normal for someone who in one transaction, as Minister Djelic, who says 'I earned it', to earn eleven million euros (I apologize, not Minister Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, the famous Duke), and then comes here and says -- what do you want, be as capable as me, so do consulting, earn eleven million euros -- and you to be happy -- a thousand euros is too much for you, because you don't know what I knew. Imagine the miracle of France, French student! Well, if he were such an expert, do you know if the French would let him out of the country? He would have made those 11m euros there, 110m euros. They all came here to get rich from the poor. So, gentlemen, there is no other, you have to sit down and talk, you have to go to elections, all of you who haven't had a chance among those 500,000 famous, when he says, if I win, 500,000 new jobs. I don't want to go back to before that. They used to tell us - Serbia will be a developed country, we will come to that stage that we will not have enough workers, so we will have to import labour. I just don't know if you thought the workers were going to die because of the good standards you set in the meantime, so you're going to have to import from some European country labour. Then you told us -- all of you who are over 50, don't worry about your future, because when we win, be safe, we take care of you, you get a job. And what happens today? Not even 500,000 jobs, and they over 50 have lost their right to social protection. You made another scam on TV yesterday. You say -- at the beginning of the year there were 927,000 registered unemployed, at the end of this year 720,000. Now, when a man listens to it, he'd say -- you see how they work, they've hired 200 and some thousands. No, you erased them from the records, you completely wiped them off the Bureau. As soon as someone doesn't answer, he loses his right, he doesn't have the right to social protection. Once all the Belgrade citizens, employed and unemployed, had the right to be treated, and you, through your privatisation, look at what it says in the last seven years. Since you sold Sartid, since you sold certain companies, how many times more have the citizens who got cancer appeared in Smederev? Did your pals and friends who came by order of the minister or anyone, because we didn't have the environmental law so far, install the filters, allow the citizens of Panchev, Smederev to live better, to have better living conditions? No, you're not interested in that at all, gentlemen. What about the minister who was here, who said it was gonna be the law? What about the famous companies that you sold, that dropped chemicals and created an ecological disaster? Your citizens are only interested in the election, when you have to promise them something and say, "get out, vote, it's a colorful lie, but never mind, give us a voice, so we'll do it in the next period." That is why I call on all citizens who have been deceived and deceived, who have been expelled from work, who have lost hope, with no future, to have no chance of waiting for their working life to make a pension, all those whose children today are schooled, who have to pay for colleges – to go to elections and vote with all their hearts for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14955	On Article 2 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has an MP named Srdjan Shain. Here you go, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14956	Ladies and gentlemen, I really wanted to trust the Deputy Prime Minister when he said he was going to find a solution for people without personal documents to exercise their right to privatization, to get free action. I really believed him that all Serbian citizens would have the right. Unfortunately, however, it remains the same situation that only all voters have the right to do so. You have now moved to 31.12, however, I will try again to offer some new solutions. Perhaps these new solutions will be more acceptable to you and, with the help of these new solutions, you will also give these people the opportunity to get out of social misery, because it is these people who do not have the documents that have the biggest problems. In order for the matter to be clearer, I need to remind myself who these people don't have IDs. To tell you the truth, one part of the citizens doesn't have a record of their own guilt. However, one other part of the citizens does not have the state's guilt documents. And now, the state doesn't give you the documents, and since she didn't give you the documents, she won't give you any free action. Then you directly condemn someone that you won't give him that right. On the other hand, you're saying that these amendments I've proposed are subject to abuse. Well, let's not do anything in the state right now because we're great masters all to abuse. Tell me one member of the law in Serbia who cannot be abused. When you give me only one member of the law in a legal norm system that exists in Serbia that cannot be misused, I will immediately withdraw all these amendments and tell you: it's okay. We can't, I'll remind you of an old saying, not to open a window, to get some fresh air, because that's what a mosquito is going to come in. It's better if one mosquito comes in and we all breathe, than one mosquito makes them all die. So I ask you to really try to figure out a way together, let it be an amendment to the board, let it be an amendment to the government, I don't care what kind of technique you're going to make, but let over 100,000 citizens of Serbia participate in the free share of actions. These are the people who escaped, who came from Kosovo, at the time of the bombing burned down their documents, didn't have people documents, had to file demands... It's the state's fault they don't have the documents, it's not their fault. These are people who live in cardboard settlements, in unsanitary settlements, most needed to get several thousand euros in a family of three or four members and to settle their position. This is how the message is to the citizens of Serbia - we are resolving your status together with all Serbian citizens. Otherwise, we're going to have a situation tomorrow that you're going to have to budget funds to move citizens under Gazela, from cardboard settlements, citizens in Topoli and other citizens, instead of now giving an injection to all citizens and all citizens of Serbia feel they're equal. There is one solution, to say that all these conditions you wrote exist on the day of your registration. That gave you a six-month chance for all Serbian citizens to provide documents. Now don't do anything until January 31st, and enrollment in the election list on the day of enrolment. Let's do that so that all the conditions you've prescribed in the law, just to say, to define it in the law, you define it within the board, within the government, that all conditions exist on the day of registration in the register. This gave you a chance in the next six or eight months for all citizens to obtain documents, for all citizens to do something for themselves, and in this way you will help the state really stand firm behind it and say - all citizens of Serbia participated in this process, and not - all of the voters in Serbia participated in this process. That's how you're gonna break out all the arguments that this is election law. That way, you're going to break out all the arguments that this law is only a voter. Come on, keep the promise of the Deputy Prime Minister who clearly here at the pay phone said it was a serious problem, that the government would take it seriously. I do not insist that my amendment be accepted, I insist that a solution be found. The only thing that matters to me is that these citizens exercise their rights. To accept that you're right when you say it's unproven that someone had no other citizenship. Well, war reparations courts pay war reparations if you have a statement from two witnesses. Can't we in the state believe this person's statement that he didn't have any other citizenship? If it's not true, we can punish him. There are criminal provisions for making a false statement. Once again, please, let's all do something together for these people. These amendments that I have proposed should not be accepted. You suggest a better solution, suggest a right solution, but create an opportunity for 100,000 citizens of Serbia to exercise their rights and that 100,000 citizens of Serbia, who cannot vote in January, but who have all the necessary documents in July, August or any time in 2008, exercise that right. In this way we will give a clear message to all those who criticise this law as an electoral one, in the sense that because of the elections, we will give a clear message -- no, this is a law for all Serbian citizens and we are trying to level all citizens of Serbia in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14957	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the dilemma I've had since 2000 has been resolved by the People's MP Mr. Stupar. In fact, I remember they told us in 2000 that those brought in were experts. For many, I didn't know what the experts were for. Now at least we know of one. Mr. Dinkic is an expert magician. And this "now you see him, now you don't see him" thing isn't just about Dinkic, it's "now you see him, you don't see him" thing... (President: Mr. Markovic, please. )......................................................................................................... This is my opening statement, to make it easier for you to understand what I want to say on the amendment. "Now you see him, you don't see him" is for those four and a half billion from Cyprus, so "now you see him, you don't see him" and for the state capital at the Euroaxis bank, so "now you see him, you don't see him" National Savings and "now you see him, you don't see him" -- that's how the economy is run. Let's get back to the amendment. It says item 2) in Article 2 - that on June 30th 2007, they were citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and citizens of Serbia, 1994, 1995 and 1996, so all these unfortunate years, war and wartime, many people from Republika Srpska, from Republika Srpska, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, came to Serbia and mostly at the time and submitted requests for citizenship. I am a witness that at least two-thirds of the population in the village of Grmovac – I remind you, this is the settlement where they did not give electricity for 11 years, built on the edge of Zemun, a settlement where refugees came – there is no citizenship, and they applied on time. After seven-eight-nine years, it's waiting for citizenship. And then the government said in an explanation why the amendment was not accepted: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment would mean that the right under this law would also have persons who would eventually be rejected for admission to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which is unacceptable. In the rest, the amendment was meant to achieve an effect that would be achieved by a series of amendments proposed by the government.' The government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted a bill. Should I now doubt that they speak among themselves there? Because the government of the Republic of Serbia has given the MPs a bill. I assume she previously agreed, that they had previously examined, that at least they had read what they had been translated. I suppose this is also translated, as all other proposals have been translated from some legal systems of Europe, as they want to say before bringing them to the MPs. I find it incomprehensible that someone submits a bill and, at the same time, amends the bill with a series of amendments. Why don't you pull him out of the procedure? Correct it with these amendments of yours, so give it to the MPs. There will be much less amendments, or much more, depending on how you fix it with that series, as you say, the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is, as Mr. Shane said, that without documents, many of Kosovo and Metohija were left, especially at that time of war when they moved to Serbia. The fire was, it happened, there were no documents. But it's the citizens of Serbia. The motherbooks were mostly transmitted, located in Serbia's territory and it was very simple to determine that he was born here and there, then and then, and give him the documents. The state of Serbia treated those people from Kosovo and Metohija as you say, who are displaced persons. The state of Serbia has a maternal attitude not only toward the persons who have escaped from 1993-1994, but also to all citizens of Serbia, so that you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, ladies and gentlemen of the Democrats, will be more and less. This law with this series of amendments would be best for you to withdraw, to stop this wrinkling of MPs, to make a law that looks like something and bring it in. In any case, I suggest that Mr. Shane's amendment and previous amendments to Article 2 be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14959	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras, after the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14960	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment tabled by MP Srdjan Shain and who the government has rejected, or sent a proposal to reject the amendment. I think Mr. Shane, in the course of his argument, touched the essence of which this amendment was rejected. He's been rejected, Mr. Shane, because those faces won't be able to vote on January 20th in this election. That is why your proposal was rejected to provide personal documents no later than six months after the date of entry into force of this law. This means that those, the 100,000 that you predicted existed without personal documents, will not be able to obtain their documents by January 20th, or will not be included in the voter's list and will not be able to vote 20th in the upcoming presidential elections. That is the essence of the rejection of this amendment, and I think the government was wrong to reject this amendment. I think this amendment is meaningful, that it really needs to be made possible for people who, as you say, live on the periphery of our cities, in cardboard boxes, etc. that, as well as other citizens, they are able to obtain these free actions, i.e. actions of these public enterprises that will be shared by citizens, because they are de facto citizens of this country only because they are the result of circumstances and conditions in which they live have led to the fact that some of them do not have documents with their own responsibility. Shortly before me, the MP said that a large number of citizens who came from Kosovo and Metohija were also without documentation, it is known that the documentation was lost, probably partially and because of the state's irresponsibility, did not come up with personal documents. However, the point is, I spoke in the previous presentation and also a colleague a little earlier, the government only accepts amendments submitted by MPs belonging to the ruling coalition, which fix the law quickly. A large number of amendments have been filed. I also agree that it would be very correct to return this law to the procedure, that the government reconsiders it, to propose a much better law than this one is before us. I call on the government to come to their senses and accept this amendment because it's really meaningful. Only, I suppose, will it make one problem -- how then explain that the citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo and Albanian nationality, just before the minister tried to explain it, that they are not in the voter's list, which is back on the topic, means only those who can cast a vote can also get free action. Once again, Mr. Chairman, I remind you, what I have done twice today – the minister is not in the O.R. The minister may be in the building, but we don't care, he's not in the O.R. We can't talk about the amendments we've made unless there's anyone to give us an answer. The lady and the gentleman sitting here have no opportunity to give us an answer. They can write something down and pass it on to the minister, but it's very important for us that the minister sits here. So I ask you once again to invest your already proven authority and ask the minister to come to the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14961	Thank you, Mr. Marash. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 2 of the amendment, was submitted by the Privatisation Committee. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maraš. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14962	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law. I'll read Article 3, and then I'll read the amendment I tabled later, as well as the explanation. Article 3 Equality in the exercise of the right: 'A person referred to in Article 2 of this Act (hereinafter referred to as 'rightholders') shall be entitled to equal amounts of cash compensation and equal shares of each enterprise, i.e. companies designated by this law'. I have submitted an amendment to this article which, in my opinion, was to read this: “The person in Article 2 of this Law is entitled to an equal base of monetary compensation, with an increase of that amount for each year of employment. ” In this way, citizens in this country cannot be equal. Equality and equality are realized in many other ways, but in this way we do not bring citizens into the same position. For the simple reason that, again, I'm going to underline, that's what the predecessors and I said, on several occasions, this law is really pre-election law and it only takes care of voters. So anyone who turns 18 and has IDs will vote in the upcoming and future elections and let's give him a thousand euros, so-called. A thousand euros, and let him vote for us. We have citizens who have done 10, 20, 30, 40 years in this country, and these citizens, I have brought it into the amendment, can be equal to those citizens who have turned 18, 20 years old and do not have working days in such a way that they will have the same basis, and that each year the internship they have achieved gets a certain amount increased by that year. However, what do we have as a problem with this law? And in the principle debate, we pointed out that there is a big problem, that we have a legitimate concern that all these actions that are divided, if they are divided, will end up in the hands of the tycoon, we can assume in which tycoon, or which tycoon. As soon as the opportunity arises for these actions to reach the stock market, i.e. that citizens can dispose of them, or sell them, they will come into the situation that a large number of citizens who will receive these actions, if they are worth a thousand euros, will try in some way to secure their existence by selling these actions. What kind of situation will we be in then? (I apologize, Mr. Albianic, you're distracting me. If it's no problem, please don't communicate so loudly. ) So, we're going to get into a situation where citizens want to sell their actions quickly. Since most of the foreigners fled the stock market, for known reasons – since Serbia, one, a very unstable country, two, which is much more significant, there are monopolies and cartels in this country, which the European Commission has unequivocally established in its letter to the Government, and all those living in this country know that there is a monopoly – so all of them have fled the stock exchange and will appear, for example, as a buyer of Telecom, one firm, by some respected, by some very disputable, i.e. a company and the company that LDP has repeatedly spoken of here, or we have tried to set up a polling board to determine the abuse of the company, so it can easily happen that in five years's not called 'Telecom' anymore, but to be called 'Deltak'. There are no adequate mechanisms to defend against abuse of this law when selling these actions. The government has repeatedly shown that it has obstructed all bodies in every way, all bodies that should deal with the protection of citizens, which should prevent corruption and which should control how funds are spent in the budget. I have repeatedly mentioned that the 2008 Anti-Corruption Council received less funding in the budget than it did for the current 2007. Also, the State Auditing Institution, their Council is a tenant here. Also, the Citizens' Protector, who should take care of the interests of citizens, that is to say, to protect their rights -- has not yet come to the turn of his assistants' elections, and he cannot do his job in the most poor way, or to protect the citizens. So anything that can lead to suspicion of government's work, or anything that should control the government's work and the work of those who have a monopoly in this country, is in every way trying to obstruct itself. I'd like to ask you one more question. I hope the co-workers of the minister will pass on to him in an adequate manner, since he's been out of the O.R. for an hour. Those who come from Vojvodina, I can speak in this way, and I suppose MPs from other parts of Serbia must have such examples. During the 1990s, especially 1990/1991. in the year, many municipalities in Serbia, especially smaller places in these municipalities, did not have phones, or telephone connections in their municipalities. Citizens were forced to enter phones themselves, or to implement a telephone network to their homes, or apartments. What happened then? At the time, the Post Office, or the current Telekom, only gave to the central office, and citizens provided all the means to bring the phone network to the central and from the central to their apartments. Such households, according to some surveys, have about 200,000 in Vojvodina. The value of these investments, invested by citizens to get a telephone connection, i.e. to be able to communicate with other parts of the state, was around 1,600 marks, and we came to the conclusion that this was about 320,000,000 euros invested by households in Vojvodina in the development of telephony in Serbia, i.e. that they could be equal with other citizens. I'd like you to take care of that. Is there any possibility that, under the circumstances, but also in fact, the real owners in some way would be compensated? So, are these citizens, who really invested in the development of telephony, who paid for their phones to be connected to households, some part of the owners of Telekom, and is there any chance of such citizens being compensated? I suppose in each part of Serbia there are municipalities where people are thus financed by the then Post Office and the current Telekom. I'd like to, if there's any possibility that you could pass on the minister, think about it a little bit -- is there any possibility that these people could be compensated in some way? Once again, I ask you, too, to consider accepting this amendment, for the simple reason that, unfortunately, some of us, we are not all equal in this country and we can't all have this kind of treatment, so anyone who has turned 18 gets the same value of action. It is our suggestion that anyone who has turned 18 starts with the same base, and that every year his internship is allowed to receive some larger amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14963	The 7th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14964	I would just briefly point out that the amendment is of a technical nature, and if this first amendment were to be adopted or the solution was found, then it simply technically creates the possibility of the essence of the problem being realized. Another line in that direction. When we adopted the Law of Reading, you all said - we accept all citizens from Serbia, whether they have or do not have documents, we have an obligation to the European Union to accept these people and they will be equal citizens of Serbia. So we promised the international community, the European Union, the Council of Europe, major and small political factors in the world, etc. With this law, these people are not in an equal position. We brought them from where they had such conditions for life, and we punished them with this law and told them, gentlemen, you got what you asked for, you were a little in the reading, we brought you back here not to be equal, but to be punished. So once again, please do something, you as a government or as a committee in charge, give your amendment, don't accept this amendment, just equalize these 100,000 people with all Serbian citizens and create the conditions that these people from the readmission, who come January, February, March, April, etc., when we have brought them back here, when we have destroyed their existence in Western European countries, when we return them here so that they can't support themselves or their old parents, let us give them what we give to all Serbian citizens. You come up with the best option and I'll vote for that best chance of yours. Do not accept this solution if you think it is wrong, give a better solution, just give the possibility for all citizens in Serbia to be the same under this law. Don't put the formal stuff in front of the actual state. Serbia is not a well-organised state that has lived for 100 years in a stable legal system and now let's say -- it's your fault that you didn't do something. Serbia lived back 20 years in legal chaos, we were part of a single state, part of a state community, now we're an independent state, we don't know what they're going to do to us tomorrow, and we're acting like we're getting somewhere where everything's going, where everything's okay, where everything works, but, you know, that citizen we're bringing back from the readmission process, he's irresponsible. We ask the question is whether these people are irresponsible for leaving at that time that many critics or we are irresponsible because we simply return these people and do not give them the same civil rights as everyone else. I ask the chairman of the board of directors to call for a session, to discuss these issues, to give the right solution or, if the Government is in a situation, to give the right solution. Define the amendment while the debate is still under way and allow the MPs to plead on that solution. Or, say, that's not what we're interested in, that's not right. But I don't think so because the Deputy Prime Minister made it clear that he wanted to handle it. Then give me that solution. If that solution is not given, it will remain bitter taste in the mouth of people that we simply do not care and that these people are irrelevant. Let us prove to these people that they are important and that indeed this assembly is thinking about all Serbian citizens and that the Serbian Parliament really wants to help those who are not able to fit the order of equal citizens, whether in this way they do not have personal documents, whether by returning them from the readmission process, whether by simply living on the sidelines of society and not being aware that unless they solve any formal question will not do so. We are the ones who have a responsibility to the citizens and do not have the responsibility of the citizens to the Assembly. Let's demonstrate that we're here for them, and they're not in the election because of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14965	Thank you, Mr. Shane. The amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic to article 9 and all other members showing up. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Markovic, I don't think there's any reason for us to discuss this situation. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14966	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is not that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution, but the chairman did not read the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14967	I just read what it says here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14968	You read it one more time, and you'll come to a different conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I said "fall," I didn't mean the general downfall of the government, or the fall. It's grammatically correct both, but it's a political and physical question. I didn't mean the fall of a certain minister, I meant the grammatical term "fall." However, my amendment does not refer to it, but refers to something else. He says: In Article 9, the word "minister" is replaced by the word "minister" in the corresponding decline, and in all the other members of the bill, the word "minister" in the corresponding decline is replaced by the word "ministration" in the corresponding decline. The reason is very simple. The state institution is a ministry. The minister is a clerk at the head of this institution. The minister may be one day or four years, as long as the term of office, or twice four years if he is good or if the ruling coalition so agreed. The ministry must be, as an institution, the bearer of precisely this kind of business. The reason more - the minister can be corrupt, corrupt, can even be criminalized, with a past like this or such, and throughout history, especially this latest, since 2000, we have had cases of such ministers and state officials. The Ministry also carries a certain weight. The minister can easily be removed at some point. The minister can go to jail, the ministry can't go to jail. Fortunately, I say, the minister can go to jail and I know that many will end up there right now, especially these "experts" for everything and everything, which came to us after "the bulldozer of the revolution" in Serbia, to "make Serbia happy". The way they made her happy, we see. The government says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that administrative matters are being resolved in the second degree, even when the ministry is responsible for such treatment, the minister is responsible and authorised, and in accordance with Article 23(2). Law on State Administration ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 79/05 and 101/07). I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we were the most fierce critics of these laws on administrative procedure, which were adopted both in 2005 and 2007, in this particular matter. And there we have insisted that the many amendments be written to open your eyes, so that you cannot identify a man with an institution. I remind you that even then, thanks to the ruling majority, something has been voted which is incomprehensible, but it is neither the first nor the last time that such things vote because you have a majority, you can vote that the Earth is square and that the cube is round. You can do whatever you want, but you can't go as far as you want. Why not the minister, but the ministry? Article 9 paragraph 2 states: "The minister decides on a submission of a complaint within 60 days". Except for this "Minister", which isn't "Ministership", this other could be fine. However, 'in the course of a decision on the complaint referred to in Article 1, the minister may:1) reject an untimely appeal or appeal filed by an unauthorized person;'—so he will decide whether the complaint is untimely and whether it is filed by an unauthorized person, while not consulting any act, because it, as an individual, as a minister, is available to him as an expert. He further says: "2) by rejecting the appeal as unfounded;" – again without consulting any act, the minister can simply say - your complaint is unfounded and therefore rejected, and if we agree, and since we are prone to agreements, the complaint can be established and accepted. Of course, that decision has a certain weight. Serbian citizens know very well what weight I mean. He goes on to say, "3 with a solution to order the applicant's entry into the register." It's only here that all the doors are opened, all the heaven halls for the minister, because he doesn't have to ask anyone else, he doesn't have to consult anyone, he doesn't have to consult any papers. By its solution, it may order the registration of the applicant in the register to be carried out. It has much greater weight, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament than that point 2). Because that means he directly allowed the acquisition of various rights, the minister, "hokus-pocus", as Mr. Stupar said, since he can do anything. Here he opens up opportunities literally to rule as if Serbia were his fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if you do not accept this amendment and control the colorful possibilities of our famous minister for everything and everything, because when they proposed his ministry, when I read it, it just can't regulate the flow of the river, anything else can, anything that's about the dinar, anything that's about finance, about the economy -- is in his ministry. Knowing the minister as such, and otherwise, insisting that only the only ministry, as a state institution, could decide such matters, I have submitted this amendment. The amendment, as you can see, applies not only to Article 9, but to all members, from Article 9 and beyond. And we will always advocate, we of the SRS, to detronize the 'expert minister' and that the ministry, as a state institution, as a state body, as something without which the state cannot, get all these attributes and all those powers. Therefore, I suggest that you take the voting day from the democratic block of accounts and press that green button, because this prescribed and no law, at least in that part, will be acceptable to the citizens of Serbia, more specifically, will disable malfeasance, corruption, robbery and anything else that carries this Article 9. Hidden, but not enough, because Serbian radicals know how to discover your hidden things as well. What Branko Copic said was, "We know you."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14969	The word has been given by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14970	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, whenever I go out for this assembly pay phone, I always mention what's going on or what happened in the Sabbath community. It's criminal privatisation, which has destroyed all economic operators, so 25,000 workers are out of work today. My speech is one truth that says that the candidate for the personality of Sapca is under the influence of the Special Prosecutor's Office, which is the owner of the Galeb company, now owner of Mepritlastika and former president of the Chamber of Commerce, Radio-TV Mechanist Radosav Vesenovic, one of the richest people not only in the Municipality of Sabac, but in all of Serbia. I'm just going to read a few sentences about how, in fact, this tycoon has now come to this capital, that is, how it deceived the workers and the citizens of the Sabbath community: "Radosav Veseinović, the owner of the company Metaloplastics, who, according to former executives, has violently hacked into the factory and so with 2% of capital and with the help of DHSS has become the majority owner, which they recently wrote about, and is now on the list of candidates for the personality of the year of the town of Šapca. To remind us, Veselinovic has been applied for an investigation, and the Privatisation of Metaloplastics deals with the Special Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen... (President: Article 103) The Rules of Procedure say we need to talk about what's on the agenda, please. )......................................................................................................... I'm talking about Article 9, where Mr. Moma Markovic submitted the amendment and I think you should accept it, and he's talking about exactly how the Privatisation Agency was dealing with crime with local authorities. Vesenovic began to buy out the Metaloplastics in his hotel's Galeb, offering 10-15 euros per share, and the rest should have paid off when he took over the company -- claims former director Andzic, who was then specially masked by people who broke into the company with telephone wire as in criminal films. The company was secured, and in the business of Metaloplastics, whose head was Veseninović's nephew, and the parent company of the Galeb Group, led by his uncle, no one could enter anymore. Vesenovic raised loans, and stocked up metal plastic property, Andzic said. I can tell you about the audio names on this company's list. The newly formed board of directors of Metaloplastics has gathered very loud names in one place, according to the former director. According to him, according to Veselinovic's recommendation on the Management Board, Radosav Veselinovic, who was authorised by the Chamber of Commerce to sell fiscal tills, Slobodan Milosavljevic, the current agriculture minister and Mirko Vasiljevic, the Belgrade Faculty of Law dean. As you can see, all the audio names are on the board of directors of this company. Sound names are found in the management of this company, as I said when the Minister of Agriculture Slobodan Milosavljevic was present here, a man who did not inform parliament MPs in his biography that he is also on the Board of Directors of Metal Plastics. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't just one case that happened in the Sabbath community, it's the case with every privatized firm, so I'm going to have a chance to inform you more about the other privatized companies in the Sabbath municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14971	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. Please, Mr. Arsic, make it clear if we're for the Kostolac municipality, don't forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14972	Mr. Albianic, you're breaking the rules of procedure right now, and if you want, we can talk privately. As I said, we will wait until we see a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the territorial division of cities and municipalities, and then you will hear my opinion. Since you from G17 are known to be so officially informed, then defend yourselves after this pay phone in advance, it's a different story. Let's get back to the amendment. To Article 12. On behalf of the SRS, Natasa Jovanovic submitted an amendment requesting, when it comes to action, that from the moment of privatisation, and this privatisation that you are conducting began in 2001, until the moment of taking over the cash compensation for actions, the value of the action increased for the rise of prices to a small extent. However, I received a statement from the Government of the Republic of Serbia saying that the amendment is rejected: ''Amendments are not accepted for the reason that the funds achieved by the sale of shares and shares, after deduction of sales costs, are transferred to the Special Account of the Action Fund open for these purposes by some (or some) business banks, and such funds will be charged interest. Notwithstanding this, the proposed amendment would create an obligation on the part of the Action Fund to ensure from some other means the proposed increase in the price for the sold action packages, which is not acceptable and would create a new commitment on the part of the Action Fund'. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one simple question - in whose interest is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia should protect and whose interests should be protected? Should the Government of the Republic of Serbia protect the interests of the Action Fund, which is some kind of state body, or should it protect the interests of citizens? I think that all those in power should be citizens' interests first, because the government is probably working in the interests of the citizens, not in its own interest. I see some people are bored with what I'm saying. They've already started to roll their eyes. I promise I'll be far more interesting in the sequel, but that's your problem, which you can't understand. However, when it comes to government, this law, as you wrote, as I said in my first presentation, is a simple pre-election law, so that someone might have a better chance of success, because money is promised. There's no money here. It will be later, if someone welcomes him and, in the meantime, the stock market speculators don't finish the job like they did with old foreign currency bonds, when we created an empire thanks to the poverty of the citizens. Not from the SRS, but from the DOS, which you came to power on October 5th, so you created "MK Komertz" and various others with financial malfeasances to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Regarding how the government defends the interests of citizens, I would suggest that the Government of the Republic of Serbia defend the interests of citizens just as it defended the interests of the Ju-Es style factory. The Sartid affair has been going on for a long time. I wish there was a minister here who was authorized under this law because I'd ask him a few questions, since he's a direct participant in this affair. However, Mladjan Dinkic has shown that he has a tendency to be a monarch, so as in some parliaments, he appears as king or emperor to open a session and then delete, so let the MPs do, he is not interested in this. However, he should be interested, as he will soon have to start preparing his defences against competent state authorities such as prosecutors and courts. It will not be long before he is protected by the immunity of the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? It's about over a billion dollars worth of damage to the state when it comes to Sartid. In fact, the Sartide affair does not begin with the "Ju-Es-style" offer, or "Ju-Es-style-Kosice" (even if it is not the real American firm for which it is represented, but a European company, which is an American firm and which is banned from working in some countries because they have violated the anti-Monopolical law). The Sartide affair begins by closing banks. It was the preparation of the terrain, that certain business entities, which are large systems, were given to someone, and yet at the expense of Serbian citizens, were again at the expense of banks, often by banks where the state was the majority owner. Sartid Smederevo recognises debts before the court, and that: Invest Bank - worth billions of dollars, Belgrade Bank - 180,000,000 dollars, Jugobank - 24,000,000 dollars, NIS - 910,000,000 dinars, ZTP Belgrade - 551,000,000 dinars, Tehnosas - 275,000,000 dinars, EPS - 237,000,000 dinars, NIS Jugopetrol Belgrade - 183,000,000 dinars, NIS Novi Sad - 122,000,000 dinars, Metaleks Belgrade - 99,000,000 dinars, Danube insurance - 74,000 dinars, Duferko Adria - 64,000 USD, Republican Fund - 470,000,000, German cancer GMBH - six million, Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia 44,685,000 euros. These were debts that Sartide admitted before the bankruptcy proceedings were initiated. The bankruptcy procedure, so it starts after these banks are closed. The government of the Republic of Serbia says the bankruptcy procedure has begun and is then unable to stop it, to privatise Sartide under the Privatisation Act. That's what Vlahovic claims. I ask the question: how could the Trade Court (the then Commercial Court) in Belgrade initiate bankruptcy proceedings against Sartide when the local court of trade in Pogorevec was in charge? How could the government not intervene? How could they not challenge the local jurisdiction of the court that initiated the bankruptcy proceedings? All of this was done, in fact, to finish the job and make Ju-Es style the owner of Sartida. Since 2001, there have been more offers for Sartid. Some companies have asked for 50% of their debts to be paid themselves, to pay the estimated value without the burden of the debt on $500m and to prove their intentions in writing by sending Sartida's privatisation requirements to the then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. So maybe we couldn't get the price for Sartide and cover all of his losses, but they would be far less than they did. In the bankruptcy process itself, it is called the Council of Trustees, which declares whether Sartide should be privatised. Do you know who's answering on behalf of closed banks? None other than the vice president of the federal government, and then Vice President G17 plus, Mr. Miroljub Labus.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14973	Please, Mr. Arsic, don't discuss it like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14974	Don't get excited, Mr. Albianic. I also have pictures of all these people going to jail for Sartide. Here are the pictures, to see the citizens. You're not in those pictures. Therefore, there is no need to worry or defend anyone. As far as I know, you're a math teacher. Please, you're not a lawyer, so there's no need to get involved in something you don't even understand to defend Dinkic and Labus. Perhaps you are still intimate friends, though he is no longer in your party. So it is said, on behalf of Investbanka, the biggest trustee to Sartide, that the opinion of the trustee: based on the talks and information made on the situation and the problems of the bankruptcy proceedings against the debtor Sartid a.d. in bankruptcy, we agree to expose the sale as a person of right to the bankruptcy, and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Force settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation and in accordance with the assessment of value – be careful, the assessment of the value, reduced for the debt held by the bankruptcy entity is 21,300,000 – meaning that not even five percent of the debts to the creditors can be settled. Who signed this? President of the Council of the Agency for Rehabilitation, Disposal of Banks Professor Miroljub Labus. He just ruined a billion dollars, Investbank.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14975	Don't do the flat, Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14976	If you're in writing, Mr. Albianic, I'll give you a copy of this, too, so you don't criticise me at all. Don't take that time, while you interrupt and stop me, to consider me. The second confidant, the Belgrade Bank of A.D. in bankruptcy, Belgrade. This was written and signed on 31.3.2003. The same text, on behalf of the Belgrade Bank (it was for Investbank), is the same date - 31.3.2003, same signature - Miroljub Labus. Jugobanka a.d. – same date, same text, 31.3.2003, same signature - Miroljub Labus. However, some other creditors, who are also state-owned, but where both Labus and Dinkic and Vlahovic and Djelic and Pitic have no influence, say quite differently. The Danube Insurance contests privatisation as it started out on a bankruptcy scale and asks for the liquidation to be carried out, and they settle down. Until today, it's not settled. It's the same with the ZTP Belgrade. A similar opinion is given by the Oil Industry of Serbia. However, Sartide's liquidation process is done by selling only part of Sartid's mobile and immovable assets. So, there's no complete purchase of Sartide for 21,300,000, and then all the accompanying facilities, connected legal entities, buys Ju-Es style for the bagatel for another $2,700,000. The port of Smederevo, the Valley of the Cold Lims, etc. - buys for a bagatella. Someone would say, well, if he owed so much, sell it, and you'll get the money to settle the debts. I agree that's possible, too. Let's say so. However, the agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the 'Ju-Es style' states: it is the obligation of the Government of Serbia to deprive 'Ju-Es style Balkan d.o.o' and to provide it with the necessary legal assistance in connection with all losses and costs incurred by the failure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's commitments made by the co-operation agreement as well as by all obligations and claims arising from Sartid's operations in the period prior to the date of purchase. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have sold Sartide for 21,300,000 dollars, and we need to settle our obligations to: ZTP Belgrade - 551,000,000 dinars, Tehnogas - 275, EPS - 237, NIS - 183, NIS-Novi Sad - 122, Metaleks Belgrade - 99, Danube Insurance - 74, Duferko Adria... Look out, for 21,300,000 it's sold. Only these are to be paid by the Government of the Republic of Serbia 64,000 euros, and you sold Sartide for 15m euros. You sold it five times less than you owe only to one debtor and was paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14977	Mr. Arsic, please stop now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14978	Should I report for the next amendment, Mr. Albianic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14979	You'll be in touch. Thank you, and we'll continue. We have reached the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic to Article 12. In accordance with Article 85. I extend my rules of procedure after 1800 hours, for the sake of efficiency, for the interests of the citizens and for our country. We'll continue our work at 13:45. We've got an hour's break. That's how television shows are arranged. I'm sorry, Mr. Batic, but you have to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14980	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. According to Business, the MP Momir Markovic is a member of the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today at the SRS Parliament Club, we have received citizens of Panchev and I am obliged to read the letter they gave us. He says this: More than a year ago, a private from Belgrade with a co-owner from abroad was sold to Pancheva Azotara for 13,000,000 euros. These customers were supposed to invest about 40 million dollars in the name of ecology and production. But when the Minister of Ecology threatened the stranger that the factory would shut down because of an ecological disaster... I remind you, the Minister of Ecology is public, from this assembly pay phone, told Serbian citizens and MPs in parliament that all factories that do not comply with the environmental standards will "bring to a more familiar right" and close if the persons remain deaf. He goes on to say:... that the factory will close because of an ecological disaster in Pančev, caused by Panček Azotara, the stranger showed a contract in which the tender did not define how to address the issue of environmentalism and what was meant to be the price of ecology. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we now see how the factories in Serbia have been sold, now we see what kind of contracts have been signed, now we see what tenders are being prepared for privatisation, and now we see what a disaster is, in fact, total privatisation, how much the state of Serbia has brought into an unembarkable position and how many citizens of Serbia have mutilated this privatisation. In order to avoid investment in Azotar Panchevo, it is further said in the letter, the stranger's buyer has demonstrated a new factory within the Azotara that produced carbamide (it is raw material for artificial fertilizer) and that the profiter is a factory, a new money (not at all put into operation), demonstrated, drove out of the circle of Azotara and sold for 32m euros. He paid the factory 13 million and sold part of the system that produces carbamide for 32m euros, which is about $40m. Now they're getting ready to import and repack artificial fertilizer into Azotara and fire about 500 workers. So 500 families will be left without bread thanks to this tender, thanks to this privatisation and thanks to the commission that was taken in the privatisation of Azotara. This, he said, is a thief's privatisation that the larger one cannot be and they asked me to ask parliamentary questions, and I am doing this at this time, and I ask professional services to schedule which of the ministers the issue will be delivered to. I demand that in writing, as soon as possible, I answer these questions because I must also answer the citizens who sent me this letter. First, for what price was Azotara Panchevo sold through privatisation with all the plants and factories, and who are the customers? The second question: have the customers fulfilled their contractual obligations and, if not, what are the obligations? The third question: why isn't the contract designed to solve environmental and pollution issues, what is killing Pančevci? The fourth question: who destroyed the carbamide factory, who was it sold to and at what cost? Fifth: Is 500 workers from Azotara ready to be fired? I'm asking you to answer these five questions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14982	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14983	Dear citizens, dear colleagues, we have a law before us that can be called "cat in a sack" for a short time, and you need an x-ray vision to see its true essence. And don't think I have too strict terms for this law. It is reportedly on the agenda of the law on the registration of the right to share free shares, and in fact it is the preparation of new gigs, new jobs for intermediaries and for the further continuation of the exercise of power under the 'provision as a way of government','money as a supreme ideal' and 'greed as a supreme virtue'. Once again known are authors and performers, and once again known are losers and winners in this process. Once again, part of the brokerage houses, part of the advisory, audit, consulting agencies behind which the same people will stand again – Mr Dinkic and his friends who have witnessed their role, from the National Bank via the National Savings Bank to the privatised banks and these only remaining banks they will privatise with the help of the state. Again, people like Nikola Zivanovic, Nik Jovanovic and others will stand behind it. That is exactly what the amendment Mr Krasic made as his objection to this law is about. General remarks on what's a sweet promise or a colorful lie we have a lot. The basic observation is that the privatisation law, which meant privatisation for real money, which meant investment by whoever really bought the company and which meant the fairness of the participation of all adult citizens in the privatisation process, was submitted in September 2000 by the SRS and the law exists in the archives of this assembly and is unfortunately only partially used when this law was made. It was used only partially precisely because the author of this legal project motivated greed, money and profit from those who want to be on the edges of the world's financial oligarchy by allowing intermediaries to earn money on what is a promise of action and that is reportedly just for all citizens of Serbia. Article 12. The draft law envisioning the sale of actions found in the Action Fund in the previous privatisation process reflects this on its last position, where it is said that the Action Fund can (conceive: it can, not - no - no - it will - be so, but it can) with the previous consent of the Agency, sell the shares, or share, by means of a contract to trust domestic or foreign specialised financial organisations or brokerage companies. That's the part where you can see that the cat in the bag is actually behind the commission. Behind what's called the corporate business of the minister and the ministry that wants to implement this law. All right, hire intermediaries, domestic and foreign financial advisors, but tell us by what criteria, why you and not others. You answer to us, in the Government's opinion, when we call on you to do this in the way you predicted and for the participation of brokers when citizens of the actions they are taking and who come into their possession have to put the brokers on the market, there you have predicted that this is done through the procurement process, that the Government will choose the broker-dealer companies that will provide the services to the citizens. When we ask by amendment that financial advisors, domestic or foreign, engage in such a principle, you pretend not to understand what was in principle meant to be said by this amendment. So what is called the availability of information for getting a job or, simply put, competition, or obtaining the most favourable offer or the cheapest and most quality mediator for a job, you say – no, it is not the same procedure when selling the shares left in the Action Fund when trading shares that citizens have received as free of charge. It's not about what is the subject of trade, it's about how you trade and put it on the market. It is a matter of how the government approaches the engagement of those who will do so. When we advise you to carry out your principle consistently, when we amend it, you pretend to be ignorant. You're being ignorant, because, like, it's a different nature of things. And in fact, there's one thing behind all of this. The law says registering rights by the end of 2008, and benefits are given to you by the Government which will cost you through the Central Register, the broker – which is the mechanisms through which you will be forced to sell your shares within three years. The government thinks you're so well thought out that it's not sentencing -- seas, no -- it's necessary, no -- the law obliges, but -- you won't have any costs if you do it within that shortest time. It is one species, not even enough perfidence, nor hypocrisy, how much impertinence the government is making for poverty in which Serbian citizens are and who will certainly take advantage of the first chance they don't have to pay brokers, that they don't have to pay for registration in the Central Register, which won't pay taxes in that first transfer, and sell them all in 2011. Let me remind you again of the fundamental legality of the economy. When you offer everything and suddenly on the market, what's the price of some goods? Well, the lowest possible. So, if we offer all the action as the law says, by the end of 2011, who's going to buy those actions? Or a big offer will make a low price. I really think that after all the experience that the creators of financial malfeasances, machinations and inventions (call them whatever you want) have left behind, they talk about it, not that we suspect that this is actually the creation of weights and jobs for brokerage brokerage houses, but we have evidence for that called the Bill of Law on Free Action and the Money Compensation that citizens are making in the privatisation process. I'll go back to one principled thing. Privatisation as a process that solves all problems, privatisation as a cure for all problems – is no longer a wish. It is an experience of all of us in which we know that privatisation is not a cure for all problems and that they cannot neither economics as science nor the right as a science to act as a religion that has answers to all the questions, typical, independent of what country it is and what heritage it is. When you take on other people's experiences, when you prescribe other people's laws, when you get orders from foreign investors, those who need this market and those who wear nice promises and their interests in our territory, please explain to them that the specificity of this area is special and that it has nothing to do with those Central Eastern countries, so when we go somewhere in the world, they ask us, are your agricultural combinations actually Russian colhoses? You have worked so hard to present to the people, the specificities of this economy, that they ask us if our agricultural combinations look like Russian colhos. But that's why, for example, you're telling us about an Irish miracle that occurred in one night, which took 25 years. So you don't tell us what kind of control their financial agency is doing there when brokerage houses, when financial institutions control the level of interest, commissions and all the costs that go with the loans. So we are not told by Mr Dinkic, who is behind this law, that only in our country is the National Bank, which runs the macro-political system, but which issues licences for financial institutions, banks, insurance, and at the same time controls them. You have to understand that globalisation is coming to these fields as well. Globalisation in terms of finding out that you're passing on only partial experiences here and you only want to apply those that bring you money. When I say 'you', I mean participants in these procedures and those authors who want to tell us that the private hand, the perfect hand of the market, is the ideal regulator of our future. I'm just going to take an example of a broker. Is this broker, who should be trading in these actions in the brokerage house and who, according to this amendment, will not be chosen in some competitive procedure but given directly, and you know what you do when you assign them jobs, manage the interest of getting as much value as possible for the employer, means every citizen of Serbia who has entrusted him with the right to trade in his action, or will be managed by his own personal interest? It is certain that they will be managed by personal interest, because the private interest is unlimited in this case. This means that the values of the action will be artificially formed, because it is said well that the conscience sits behind the profits. In this case, the conscience was behind the profits when the authors wrote this law. The conscience won't be at all when you tell them, with the alleged benefits, to sell the shares as soon as possible. Please understand that for us as a society, it is devastating to promote speculation as the ultimate power to earn profits. It's devastating for this society to make gambling and prize games our source of happiness, to be a source for a safe future. The factories are being closed, the casinos are opening. One of the authors of these financial laws bought movies. Whether it will reopen the cinemas in them where we will see something that promotes the traditional values of this society or something that only brings profit – I think no one has a dilemma anymore. Instead of dealing with opening up new employment space for citizens, for new jobs, you are going to an unfavourable privatisation because foreign investors say -- large public enterprises privatize, and you are engaged in small and medium-sized enterprises. All new bank offers, all the benefits offered by foreign banks, including these commercial ones that will be recapitalised by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, say - will deal with the lending of the population (and we are in charge of much more than last year) and will deal with financing the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That fate was meant for us by someone who doesn't live here. But you who live here and who account for us, you must put these citizens of Serbia in charge of the future which means that they can live honestly from their work. Not to hand over systems to strangers, but to develop small and medium-sized enterprises and to give us actions, as if it were yours, and then be obliged to sell them as much as tomorrow. And we can already get pictures of those tycoons that will buy them here to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14984	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14985	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I appeared on the basis of Rules of Procedure, or on the basis of Articles 225 and 226 and 198. I asked two MPs questions. Until today, however, I have not received an answer. I don't know why the DS spent so much time trying to deceive citizens that radicals allegedly forbid some events in Serbia. One of the biggest lies, media fraud, was the one forced and launched by B92, as Srdja Komazec banned the concert by Djordja Balasevic, and no one has been able to show citizens any evidence of that, to present any paper. When we, the Serbian radicals, speak and when we present the facts behind all of this, of course, there is evidence. I also showed this paper yesterday, a letter signed by the president of Vračar Municipality Branimir Kuzmanovic, so an official memo, with a signature, a stamp, where he prohibits the promotion of the book of Dr Vojislav Seselj. No one on behalf of the DS has condemned such an anti-civilization act and I can only conclude that it is the ideology of the DS, that they are, in fact, advocating bans and bans are justified, but when they forbid. So that's the democracy they've been introducing since 2000. But so you don't think that the bans are tied exclusively to the SRS and that it's possibly some lonely incident, I'm going to show you that it's actually the rule of acting as DS, and I'm going to explain to you what the criterion is. All that is in Serbia's interest, all that is in the interest of Serbian citizens, the Democrats will be very happy to ban. By any chance, Dr Vojislav Seselj wrote a book that is against our history, which is against the citizens, which is against our national spirit, I'm sure she would experience an unprecedented promotion by the Democrats. This, given that it is a book that is precisely a capital science work, which is the historical fact, which was hidden by the communist regime, and which, with equal attention, hides the dossal regime, which we are about to bring down, is about to be banned. In addition, DS banned a concert titled "Music for Life" organised by the "Serb Court" at the National Theatre in Belgrade, which was scheduled for 15 September 2007. I am surprised that these independent media, human rights fighters, reacted and said it is possible to ban such events in Serbia in 2008. The citizen's working. I'll tell you what kind of action this is. So the Two Serbians are the driver of the Life Movement campaign. It is a campaign against the white plague, for which they even received support from the previous ministry of culture of the Republic of Serbia. After all, it is also a strategy that the government at least declared when it was formed, that it will fight against the white plague. That is certainly one of the biggest problems in Serbia today. I wish, here I am not alive, to hear what kind of answer the representatives of the DS will give, which is why Voja Brajovic, so-called. Minister of Culture, forbids concerts like this. (Here, I'm finishing up, but given Mr. Grouchy, that I've called in three members, please have, as always, a little understanding. ) In the framework of this campaign, videos that promote parenting and beauty of birth are recorded and thus launch a campaign to fight the white plague in a new and modern way. So this is a really nice action, against which, I think, no one who wants Serbia well and all the citizens of Serbia, because this, in the end, is not only about Serbs, but about all Serbian citizens, could do anything. In co-operation with the Youth Section of the National Theatre Unions in Belgrade, "The Court of Serbian" organised a concert of serious music called "Music for Life". So for a concert like this, there's got to be room, there's got to be time at the National Theatre. If the National Theatre, as a pillar of culture, as an institution that should serve, above all, this people, refuses to help all citizens of Serbia in this way, then I really don't know who these people, who run such a noble action, would be able to turn to. The "Dovers of Serbian" organisation is not political, it is very important to stress. They are, as far as I know, not even in public yet, attached to any political party. This concert had absolutely no political background. So it's just a humanitarian character. In addition to the concerts of serious music, these videos that promote the fight against the white plague should be shown. National Theatre Manager Dejan Savic gave written permission to hold the concert, however, the day before the concert, Voja Brajovic called Dejan Savic and banned the concert. The reason was reportedly that "The Courts of Serbian" are known, they say, an Orthodox-national organisation. So in Serbia... (Milena Milosevic, from the scene: terrible. It is, ma'am, terrible, but if you feel terrible, then come out here and make an argument. You should be ashamed, I suppose you're a mother too, and I don't know how you can judge what I'm saying. If you judge, then go to the citizens of Serbia and say, "I, on behalf of the DS..." , and you were supposed to be and you were running for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then come out and tell the citizens - me from the DS, I condemn this. So the ban on this concert was also supported by Gorica Mojovic. It appears to be the work of the Democratic Party from the beginning to the end. Director Savic said that organisations such as Dvori are not the place in the National Theatre. Why not? Is it because it's Orthodox, is it because it's national? What bothers you in Orthodoxism? What bothers you in the Serbian national spirit? What's the problem? Is it a problem in Serbia that someone says they're Serbian? Is it a problem to say that it advocates that young couples, that all those who can make as many children as 70,000... (President: Mr. Sarovic, we agree with that, please. I apologize to you, Mr. Gristle, I'm done. )......................................................................................................... 70,000 young people each year, since the regime's regime has been in power, has left Serbia. That's more than ever left while Milosevic's regime was in power. Besides, negative tendency, white plague. Instead of encouraging birth, diapers are three times more expensive in Serbia than in Germany, and concerts dedicated to starting this issue, which are dedicated to fighting for the lives of this nation, you forbid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14986	Anyone else want a word on Amendment 12? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's unacceptable for us to continue our afternoon work without a minister. We took the afternoons so he'd have to go somewhere. Mr. Albianic told us two or three times -- here's the minister. It's like we're stupid or we don't see the minister around. I mean, Mr. Grouchy, we don't have the conditions to continue today's work. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the amendment submitted by my colleague Momir Markovic. I did not report on that amendment because, of course, he said everything he needed to say, but it is really more inadmissible that the Legislative Committee opposes the provisions of our Rules of Procedure. When the chairman read this amendment, he said the position of the Legislative Committee was that the amendment was not in line with the Constitution. I insist that the chairman of the Legislative Committee tell us what is not in the amendment of fellow Members of Momir Markovic in accordance with the Constitution. It is indeed high time for the Legislative Committee to start working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Jorgenka Tabakovic, said what is the essence of this whole of your law. All of us, of course, know that this is just a pre-election trick, that there's a lot to be read between the lines. We talked about it when it came to Article 12, which is very characteristic, and it is related to the voter lists. I will remind citizens of the DOS election campaign in 2000, when it was said that there were six billion dollars on the border and only waiting for DOS to take over and that six billion dollars were divided per capita. The same case is now with this so-called law. Free action, of which Serbian citizens will not benefit. Not to be misread, we in the SRS have nothing against free action. On the contrary, we had our own bill, which was not accepted, under which one third of the action was to be divided, not 15%, as is now predicted. And now that these last amendments to the Privatisation Act were on the agenda, we had an amendment that we consider to be the most important in that law, and it is that the state must remain the owner of 51% of these large strategic public enterprises. You didn't accept that amendment. In this way you have left the possibility that anyone who buys NIS, EPS, Airport, JAT, etc. become the owner of 51% and the state will no longer have any effect on these public enterprises. You have not accepted this since 2000 because it is your idea to bring those with which you, or the Serbian Government and resolution ministers, make 'dilove' from which you take the fees you agree on. And what's in it for the citizens of Serbia, what's in it for Serbia, it's just that the DOS doesn't care and you haven't cared since day one, ever since you took over the power of your "bulldozer revolution" in Serbia. Why is this amendment that I've been talking about relevant to Article 13 and the amendment I've submitted? Article 13 refers to the deadline for the sale of shares and shares. The government's proposal for the deadline to be December 31st, 2008. I proposed the amendment to move that deadline on 31 December 2011, with a reason that the deadline provided for by the draft law is too short and that the sale of shares would reduce their currentity on the market in such a short time, and thus the price at which they could be sold would be lower than the real price. That I am right to speak and explain to the Government of the Republic of Serbia why the amendment is not accepted: 'Amendman is not accepted because the position of the 4th and 5th in Article 12 is accepted. The draft law provides that the price per share at which the Share Fund can not be less than the price per share paid by the buyer in the privatisation process, i.e. that the price at which the Share Fund can sell the shares cannot be less than the price paid for the relevant part of the capital of the privatisation entity by the buyer in the privatisation process’. What do you guarantee this if the buyer of capital will own 51%? What do you guarantee that he will have the need to increase his percentage within such short notice and keep the stock price? There's simply no guarantee, but the opposite of that, there's no saying it's going to happen in such a short time. You say, "As in most cases it is relatively attractive minority packages which already exist for institutional investors or where the interest of a strategic investor to acquire 100% ownership, the demand on the capital market will be such that a high degree of competition can be expected in the competition to acquire an economically significant package of actions, and thus achieve relatively high prices." This is also beyond the context of what we have proposed by amendment and beyond what is provided for in Article 13. It's a bill of law. What the government is talking about in its reasoning can be applied to, say, already privatised companies, where there is still a certain percentage where maybe new owners want this privatisation to end by buying actions and become, as the government predicts, 100% owners, although this is not happening in practice and all citizens who have actions know it. But the bottom line is that this law is not applied retroactively and that this law applies primarily to public enterprises that are not privatised, to EPS, NIS, JAT, Airport. Where do you, in your explanation, see these companies? Do you already know who these majority owners are and Serbian citizens and MPs don't know that? If this is an explanation, and if it really applies to the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, then someone in the Serbian government, Mr Dinkic, probably, and Mr Djelic, since they are in charge of these laws, then they already know who the majority owners and NIS are, and EPS, both JAT and Aerodrom, and then they know that they will have an interest in increasing their ownership to 100% by the end of 2008. So, you're trying to play Serbian citizens, you're trying once again to abuse the trust of Serbian citizens, you're cheating and you're lying to Serbian citizens the most ground-breaking way that everyone will benefit from these so-called. free action. We, Serbian radicals, are telling Serbian citizens not to believe you, to remember in 2000 and the campaign. Once again, I remind you of the six billion dollars promised to wait on the other side of the border for Djindjic and Tadic to take over and share it with the people. As then, respected citizens, there was nothing of the DOS's promise to you, so there is nothing of this promise that DOS gives you regarding the distribution of free shares. If they wanted to do so, they would have accepted the amendments, or above all our proposal for a privatisation law a few years ago. If they wanted to do that, that job would have been done a long time ago, and the citizens know best how many times, unfortunately, they've bought it. It's tempting to anyone who works in education, in health care, in the state administration, in the court administration, in local self-government, everywhere where there's a lot of low profits, it sounds tempting to people when someone tells them that they just need to sign some paper, so they're going to get free shares worth 1,000, 1,500, 2,000 or I don't know how many euros. We know from previous experiences how many abuses there have been, when citizens had to pay to sign up allegedly on a list so they had to pay certain taxes, etc. I hope they understand that until now it has been a fraud, that the only truth is the Serbian Radical Party, and I am convinced that citizens this time will definitely understand who is who is telling them the truth, who is the one who is offering them the truth and who is speaking to them with all their heart in the expectation that citizens will do so with all their heart on January 20th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14988	I thank the People's MP to Mrs. Vereca Radetti. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) Mr Zivanovic, MP of the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14989	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the letters of those who are the most endangered are coming to us every day, very much related to these free actions, which is from the pensioners. Here, I'll show you a letter. When actions were put in, there were 45 on this list. Now, today is only 17, and 28 died. I'll read you the letter sent by those who are alive. The law on the distribution of free shares has left hundreds of thousands of people, especially us pensioners, without registered free shares in the companies we worked in. I would remind the Assembly of this most shameful act of the state, the law on privatisation and the award of free actions, which enabled abuses by management personnel in enterprises, and thus the emergence of a bankruptcy and privatised mafia. How? The law obliges companies to privatise, i.e. the registration of free actions, to publish on the company's advertising board, in "The Official Messenger of Serbia" and in one of the daily papers, which many, especially pensioners, were unable to monitor -- some because of age and illness, some because of material conditions, and some because of fraud. We have the knowledge that personally the Ministry of Privatisation has been giving instructions that as many workers, especially pensioners, as possible, will be excluded from the grant of free shares to create fewer obligations for future customers and the management of businesses and the rest of the employees would be as many shares as possible for the division. So in our case, it's in the Water Community of Sabac, we have that employees under the first privatisation law have entered shares, and under the second law on privatisation of shares should be renamed to action. Many of the workers were sent on vacation, and during that time management with the rest of the employees transformed the shares into actions, so that people, regardless of having confirmed that they had entered idols, remained unwritten actions. The pensioner scam is a special story. The leadership promised us they'd invite us to a meeting where we could sign up for free action, and the promise doesn't keep. So at that time, we 26 living pensioners and 19 deceased lost our shares. But now it's changing. A second list was provided in the annex. Once there were 26 and 19, now, unfortunately, it's different – 28 died, and only 17 were left alive. No matter what they die, we ask that their actions inherit their families. Ladies and gentlemen, today when we ask our colleagues from the company to whom they sell their shares, they must not say publicly. We're secretly making sure the actions buy out Chumet's husband. As true as that is, we'll see. These are written by Lazić Branislav and Jankovic Vlasimir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to note, the homes of culture that once were built by citizens, especially the rural area, are today being sold either into impunity or destroyed. We have one drastic example that happened on October 5th of this year. The peasants of the village of Dobric, near Šapca, were renovated, revitalized by an old, destroyed home of culture, arranged for the benefit of their children and their children, to take them away from drugs, from something that leads these young people astray. But don't lie to the devil on that day, October 5th, the DS was the first to hold a meeting of its organization and, when they came out, that night, the house was burned down. He was burned and is now in such a state because the citizens of the democratic government in the Sabacan municipality sought help, to help them revitalise the facility, but the Sabbath municipality and the president of the municipality did not accept it, but by means of their means, people wanted to make it right again, as it used to serve their own purpose. This is the case in every village where certain tycoons from the Sabacan municipality, even wider, bought a wake-up call and served another purpose, not the one they were actually meant to be for. Another case that happens is that at the meeting of the Assembly of the Municipality of Šabac SRS councils are constantly looking for one explanation for one facility. It's a Zorkin dispenser, who used to serve to treat Zorka's workers. They're asking to go to Higher Technology School for use because students are teaching in unconditional space. We wanted to help them perform the revitalization as well. The school had some funds of its own, and they asked for more funding from the NIP, to enable them to fix the facility. The facility used to serve its purpose, but in the last year or two days, when this dispensary is left to the brink of destruction, when doctors joined the Medical Centre, today serves as a shelter for homeless people and those who spend nights in the field. I would also ask you to the Ministry of Education and Science, concerning these funds requested by the Higher Technology School, as well as by the SRS at each session, so tomorrow we have this session of the Assembly of the Municipality where we will ask for these facilities to be given up to this institution, so that 1,000 students who, in unconditional conditions there follow lectures, are allowed to still be able to take care of these facilities and serve their purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14990	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14991	Thank you very much, sir, our comrade Mrkonjic. I see the minister isn't here again. It's already become a rule. Whenever they need to answer the key questions they're asked, they kind of go away. But I will, until the end of this debate in detail about this law, repeat these questions with a request that the minister respond to them. Let the public hear, at least let the public see that the minister is not giving an answer. This time, before I explain the amendment, I identified myself as one of the questions, which is: why is it that, in addition to 15% of this law for the distribution of free shares, the rest of the other 15% after the assignment of employees and former employees to public enterprises? Thus, it now provides for Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises, which is repealed by this law. I repeat, this solution is more favourable than what this law offers. That amount is much higher than the one that offers this law. Mr. Minister will have to give an answer to the citizens of Serbia. This is because this law makes one big festival, a pre-election campaign is being held for Serbian citizens to have someone give them something. Today, I was saying that Serbian citizens should not accuse Mr Djelic or Mr Dinkic of giving it to them. That's not true, they're not to blame. It is an obligation stemming from the 2001 Privatisation Act. But what they should be accused of is not paying them all what is provided for in Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises that is hereby abolished. I repeat again, in addition to 15%, which has already found a place in this law, there is another 15%, the rest of which is when it is divided into public companies workers – it says very precisely that the rest is transferred to the Privatization Register and assigned to citizens. Just to remind myself, when this law was passed in 2005, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was just giving the explanation, and he was very happy to say: 15% to everyone, and the 15% that remains will be transferred to the Privatization Register and we will also share it with the citizens. It's not right for me to quote it when it's not there, so I'll wait. When he is present, I will quote a stenogram from the session of the Assembly in 2005 about it. Let me get back to the amendment. The law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process contains in fact two parts. One part is the payment of cash compensation from the funds contained in the privatisation register and this part of the law (in order for the public to understand what it is, those are Articles 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16) speaks of the right holder exercising the right to cash compensation from the funds obtained by the sale of shares and shares recorded in the Privatization Register. How much we were informed when it was a principle debate, it was 68 companies and an orientation of around 242,000,000 euros. Next, the process of selling shares and shares, then the deadline to be sold by 31.12.2008, and no later than six months after the day of transfer of shares, i.e. the share in the Privatization Register if the shares are sold after 30 June 2008, and Article 16, which prescribes the way in which the shares and shares recorded in the Privatization Register are sold. It is prescribed that those funds be paid to rightholders in the manner and within the time limits provided for by the Government. In order for the citizens to understand what it is – what does that Article 16 that we have submitted to the amendment say? It says here: the title is Payback of cash compensation, item 1 and 2 which say that tax is not paid, that sales costs are refused, that funds are exclusively used for payment of cash compensation, that the minister prescribes a way of calculating costs... I quote the final statement: "Current compensation is paid to rightholders in a manner and within the time limits prescribed by the Government." When? You don't know. How? You don't know. For these reasons, we intervened, in agreement with the Independent Union of Serbia, as we agreed with them all amendments together, that the deadline must be specified. So we said, okay, let's keep it this way: "Current compensation is paid to rightholders in the manner and within the time limits prescribed by the government," but we ask that it be added: "and no later than 60 days from the date of the sale". So we're guessing when the citizens will get the money. There's a procedure here that's right. We made remarks this morning and we'll have more remarks about it when it's the other part of the law, about the transfer of public enterprises, a lot of people's reactions, companies, with the question of whether they're there, too. I'll list all these examples individually. Here's an example. The Kolubara mining base company, a public company belonging to the EPS, is in such a situation that, in the restructuring process, Kolubara-Gradjevinar, Kolubara-Metal (although it remains the daughter of the firm) and Kolubara-Universal are separated from the Mining Base and transferred to the government's authority to implement the privatisation process of these companies. People rightly ask a question (the whole working century, until last year, they spent at the Kolubara Mining Basement) why would they not have the right to these actions, as former employees? However, the amendment submitted by the government to Article 23 opens the possibility, but Article 26 already raises questions because it says - unless the privatisation process begins. That's where the proceedings started a year ago, but there's no way. Then why wouldn't those workers be right? We believe they should have the right to free action, as former employees of the company, of course consistent with years of employment. So we're going to list a lot of these examples when it comes to the agenda. But here I'm asking a direct question to the minister -- if the government is going to determine how and deadlines for payments (and so the bombing is announced by this law in public, as something that is given free to citizens), is it the turn of time for citizens to know when they're going to get it? This is where the law passes it to the government, but when -- you don't know. Then isn't that one pre-election trick? In order to avoid these doubts, we ask that, after the sale has been made, within 60 days, cash compensation is paid. If the government doesn't think it's an adequate time limit, let it say what the deadline is, but it can't be this way -- it's not known, because then it's free of our story that citizens are going to get something big as soon as they're sold by the end of 2008 and so on. When? That's why we think it should take 60 days. The government responded that this was not a good solution, but it still did not give a better answer, because it says that in certain cases the law would be inadmissible and unnecessarily complicated law enforcement – as far as possible, depends on the dynamics of sales. It says: it follows that the shares and actions recorded in the Privatization Register in a large number of cases will be sold over 60 days before legal conditions are obtained for payment of cash fees to right-holders. The adoption of this amendment would knowingly violate the obligation to prescribe it. In addition, it is not celibate to make payments in amounts that would amount to several euros per head, the transaction costs would be disproportionately large, etc. if the amendment is accepted. I'm saying - okay, but let's just say what the second term is. If it's not celery, maybe it's not cellical after every sale, but when's the whole point? It was left here for the government to decide and how it would pay off and when it would pay off. We think it has to be understood. It must be made clear to the citizens - these fees, for actions that will be sold by the end of 2008, will be paid within two months of 2009, and those other ones, which will be sold in the meantime, will be collected, for example, at the end of the year or I don't know when, and will be paid to the citizens. This formulation creates an opportunity for a vague situation. Citizens should rightly know, in addition to receiving financial compensation, orientatively how and when they can count on that cash compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14992	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government seems to be trying to justify itself to the citizens of Serbia for everything she's done in the past seven years, so here, now allegedly, is giving some free action, or some kind of money. However, it is only a small matter of what they have taken from Serbian citizens so far, and they are asking for a mandate in some of the next elections through one such action, that and what remains, and there is still plenty of it, to continue to kidnap from Serbian citizens. In addition, I can show on one case how our Privatisation Agency does it. We will take, for example, the privatisation of the Zastavaprometo from Belgrade, which is privatised in favour of the Verano Delta Group. It is said that the contract concluded with the Agency ''the buyer undertakes that within 12 months he will invest in fixed assets amounting to 34,460,000 dinars; for every two years from the date of completion of the contract, he will establish a dividend of at least 10% for shareholders and an additional 5% for employees; within 13 months, he will submit to the Agency for Economic Registers the confirmation of the auditor that he has invested the agreed amount in the privatisation entity; within two years, he will ensure the continuity of operations in the mainly operational activity; he will refrain from selling, transferring or otherwise alienating the company's basic assets in a period of more than 10%; he will refrain from the mortgage burden of the primary assets of the privatisation entity, except in the case of obtaining funds of which he will be the beneficiary". So that's what it looked like when they signed a privatisation contract on 30.12.2005. What's the status now? The new owners have not invested in the privatisation entity the agreed amount not after 12 months of the deadline, but have tried simultaneously to demonstrate it through partial investments in favour of the second company, Delta Motors, owned by one of the founders of the buyer of the privatisation entity. How do they do that? The owner of a company that already exists and which appears in the privatisation process as a natural person, means as a citizen, buy something in the privatisation process, in this case "Step flag", and then, as an investment, shows the assets or goods that he allegedly gave to a business operator who is the subject of privatisation, inform the Agency, and then return the money or the same goods to his firm who did it for him or another, who is the daughter of his company. So it's the owner of the radio, let's say, when it comes to the flag of traffic. However, I am interested in how much of this privatisation nonsense is in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and how much the Agency intervened in such abuses. I'm just going to give a few examples of what's being used to show up as an investment, to justify that cost. The new owners of the company as an investment investment show that they are painting. That's what the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying through the NIP. Then the cost of painting is as if they've hired a third party to do it, they show it as an investment with who knows how much money, and the only cost they have is paint, paint or whatever, brushes and workers who are already working in the company and they have to do the job. They call on the Agency to examine -- you see how well we've painted, it's investment, it's painting. They say, yes, we'll give you so much and so much -- and we'll move on. What other example of abuse is there? Before privatization, the owner of some privatization entity bought a car. When the time comes to invest in the company, he shows his car, which he bought a year or two ago, as an investment investment. Somebody explain to me how an official car can be an investment investment. I'd understand it's a transport company, so this guy had his trucks before he privatized the transport company, and now he's giving his transport vehicles as a founding role in the privatisation entity, but how a car can be an investment that can be the subject of privatisation. What else they haven't done when it comes to the flag of Belgrade. He didn't share it, he refused to do it, contracted dividends to shareholders and employees (which you are supposed to give them some money) even though in 2006, the privatisation entity made a profit, and we pointed that irregularity to the shareholders' assembly. The shareholders' assembly indicated that there is also a need for workers who have the right to action and the right to dividends - dividends to be paid. On 19.3., they delivered a confirmation of the auditor, a report by the court expert, and when the art was not published, they did not open more than 90% of the factory-packed palettes. It's that story about the goods. We brought in the goods, we called in, we found out it was an investment, we didn't even open the boxes, we may have returned the supplier, but it's important that the Agency already registered it as an investment, although that investment never took place in a privatisation entity. It significantly reduces business continuity. It's been said here that for at least two years he must maintain continuity. The company left more than 150 workers, lost their jobs because they did not receive salaries or salaries were lower than they were before privatisation. All of this has been notified by the Agency, and the current minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Predrag Bubalo artificially maintains this group of Delta-Verano, or Verano-Delta, I assume these are some of those bought by the Belgrade Robing Houses, I suppose it's something similar or the same. So, after two years, there is no respect for the provisions of the privatisation contract. Directly damaged subject of privatisation, directly damaged Republic of Serbia, directly damaged workers of the privatisation entity and small shareholders. In all this, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of protecting them, to break up the privatisation contract, to seek compensation from the economic operator, the subject of privatisation suffered, still artificially extends deadlines beyond the provisions of the privatisation law, which is bad, but not even those conditions, which provides for such a bad privatisation law, are not able to meet. That's what it looks like when you privatize. And now you're telling the people how you're gonna give them some money. I started my story, when it comes to these laws, about Sartide. I'm going to talk about Sartid a lot more, and I believe that Minister Dinkic will be interested, too, because he's got enough in this story. However, just for a few examples, I will show how many of these abuses were when Sartide was involved. The bankruptcy proceedings are open on Sartide. The president is the council judge Dusan Marcicev, judges Mile Djordjevic and Marija Elizabeth Stulic, as members of the council. I spoke in my first statement about how the citizens, the states, the public were played. I'll talk more about it, but this is the beginning of that bankruptcy. When Sartid was sold "Ju-Es-style", then a new contract, an agreement, is made to suspend the bankruptcy proceedings against Sartida, in 9.7.2003. Here's what it says: "The bankruptcy procedure against the bankruptcy debtor Sartid a.d. in the bankruptcy from Smederev, Goranska No.12, continues to be a bankruptcy case against the bankruptcy mass represented by the bankruptcy manager Branislav Ignjatovic from Belgrade" – later on, we will talk about that man, so that the citizens of Serbia know, you from DOS know who he is – 'for the sake of settlement of bankruptcy creditors, the bankruptcy manager Branislav Ignjatovic from Belgrade is authorised to take the necessary actions at the competent court to register changes due to the sale of the creditor as a legal person in the court register'. But this, when you read it like this, doesn't seem to matter. On Monday 25.6.2003, the bankruptcy manager of the bankruptcy debtor Sartid a.d. in bankruptcy from Smederev suggested that the court suspend the bankruptcy proceedings against the creditor. He stated that between the debtor and the buyer "Ju-Es style Balkan d.o.o." a contract that regulates mutual relations on the method of settlement of the purchase price. On 9.7.2003, the bankruptcy manager submitted a supplement to the proposal for the renewal of the bankruptcy proceedings against the debtor with which he also provided the bank guarantee. '"A few minutes ago I said who started the bankruptcy procedure. Do you know who signed this solution? The president of the bankruptcy council (only, how now? ) Goran Kljajevic. So it's not the judge and president of the bankruptcy council who conducted the procedure, it's someone else who didn't lead to this decision at all. Do you know who Goran Kljajevic is? Is that what I need to talk to you about? He was also arrested for this bankruptcy mob. What's he doing in Sartid's case, when the entire government was involved in the privatisation of Sartid. What's he doing here? Let's get back to square one. On 8.3.2002, a letter was signed in Smederev with the intention of a strategic partnership between Sartide and the 'Ju-Es style Kosice' from Slovakia. So there's no word here about an American partner. By signing the letter, the government of the Republic of Serbia, then privatisation minister, current MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, and now late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, Nemanja Kolesar, as head of Djindjic's cabinet, Mr. Zivomir Novakovic, director, John Goodis, president of the 'Ju-Es-style Kosice', and William Montgomery, US Ambassador to Serbia-Montenegro. That's how the story starts. As Serbian citizens have been cheated and robbed for over a billion dollars, we will hear today from this file that I have and for everything I say I have evidence. At the end of 2001, however, in early 2002, US managers were unofficially taking over the operation of Sartida, even while it was in bankruptcy. They have contracted business-technical co-operation, where Ju-Es style Kosice has a monopoly and the right to exploit the equipment and drive of Sartide over the next five years. And then you talk about privatisation. Well, you've already privatized him, which is contrary to the law because he was already in bankruptcy. To point out only the fact that in 1998 production in Sartida was at a level of 100,000 tonnes of steel per month, during and immediately after the bombing, in 1999, about 50,000 tonnes per month were produced in Sartid, so that when you came to power and appointed Zivomir Novakovic as the new CEO of production would fall to 19,000 tonnes. So much for DOS experts. In mid-May 2002, a letter from Mr Mithal Lakshmi, Indus and the owner of the "LNM Group" came to Sartide and the Government, which highlights its interest in the purchase of Sartide with significantly better conditions and references. The government and Sartide are not responding to that letter. The LNM Group is a multinational company in the steel industry, ranked second in the world. According to a report by organisations involved, it owns steel in Mexico, Canada, Trinidad, Tobago, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Romania, Kazakhstan and other countries. For the purchase of Romania's Siddeks ironworks, Prime Minister Tony Blair lobbyed, and only made the steel mill profitable in one year, according to several expert papers. They gained great experience by buying iron in transition countries. And let's see who that Yu-Es style you gave Sartide to. They did not sell – they gave it away! The government of the Republic of Serbia "Ju-Es Style" represents as the world's largest steel producer. Falsely, because it only takes 10th place in the world, annual traffic is 15 million tonnes a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14994	Shall we finish, Mr. Arsic? Please report back. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14995	Okay, Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to insist on you breaking the Rules of Procedure. I will continue to go out on Sartid's case, to present to Serbian citizens evidence of what this one is doing, and the previous government, and the first DOS government. I believe the citizens of Serbia are tired of this kind of government. Serbian citizens have the right to point out in the world wherever they are – whoever they are and where they are from, not to be ashamed of the countries they came from, as they are now doing, to be proud of their culture, history and tradition, and not to be ashamed of how you want them to be. I think that that is how the people will decide in the January 20th elections, that for the president of Serbia they will have a man to be proud of and that they will vote with all their hearts in the first place for Serbia, for their families, for generations and for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14996	I thank the People's MP, Veroljub Arsic. The National MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton submitted to the 16th Amendment together. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14997	Let's continue the story of Sartide. That is the topic, because you are showing yourself as some authority that will give something to the citizens, and I say, as well as the entire Serbian Radical Party, will confirm to you the citizens of January 20th, that you stole them and that this is just a small part of what you return to steal even more. "Ju-Es style" outside of America only operates in Slovakia and Kostice. They bought that hardware store for $60,000,000, with an investment commitment of $700,000 within ten years, a ban on firing workers within ten years, with all debts of about $325,000, and under such conditions, they failed to achieve production of more than 45% of the capacity after three years. So much for "Ju-Es Style" being a very good factory, which is the largest exporter in Serbia. The bankruptcy procedure opens on July 30th 2002, with the jurisdiction of the Trade Court in Belgrade, under number 7035/02 and with the bankruptcy judge Milan Markovic. How come Kljajevic signs that Sartid, or Ju-Es style, has no obligation to the trustees anymore? Just one example I'm going to tell you - 45,000 euros is Sartide's obligation to the Development Fund. You sold Sartide for 15 million euros. Thirty million euros from our Development Fund, more than necessary, have been robbed. Not to mention the banks you've closed, not to mention the other long-term consequences of one such act. Here, Minister Dinkic is not interested in making it possible to close four banks. Let me read you what Sartide's obligations were to those banks that you wrote off "Ju-Es style." If I have to read it again, no problem, we'll come to it, but here's: Invest Bank - one billion; Belgrade Bank (and you closed the bank) - 180,000,000 dollars; Jugobanka - 24,000,000 dollars. All these banks you've shut down allegedly because of inefficient, inefficient business, because for them, because they're so over-indebted, there's no hope and there's no hope for the state to save the ino-credit. It's more like you closed the banks to sell Sartide for a little bit of money. Let's get back to the evidence. The bankruptcy procedure with the bankruptcy judge Milan Markovic, the president of the bankruptcy council, Judge Dusan Marcicevic, is opened and is named Branislav Ignjatovic as the bankruptcy manager, without a day of employment and experience in the management of the company, and as a recommendation for this function is only – what? The godmother with the Nemanja Kolesar. No less - no more, the godfather of No Kolesar leads you to Sartide. He's done his work in cement stores, he's done business in shipyards and ports, but he can't get Kolesar to all places, so, there he is, and the godfathers do some work, make some money, too. The government's excuse is that the court was faster to introduce bankruptcy in order to block an account that has been going on continuously since 1998 than the government wanted to tenderly sell Sartide. That's not true! A trade court in Belgrade is not in charge of Sartid and could not initiate a bankruptcy procedure if someone from the government of the Republic of Serbia did not support it. The meat court in Pogorevec is responsible for the meat, which will later be seen from the documentation. Because when you finished the most important part of the job, all the other documents went through the Trade Court in Pozharevc, which was legal, and was illegally carried out by the Commercial Court in Belgrade headed by Kljajevic. Sartida's exports at that time amounted to $150m, and no one knows and hides where the money ended from export transactions and contracts for the sale of housing with Iran, which ended in early 2002 through Gosa also a larger export programme. What about that money? In the Official Journal of the SRJ No.43, 9 August 2002, an ad was published on the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against Sartida and some of the violations of bankruptcy proceedings were made: Infringement of the jurisdiction of the Commercial Court in Belgrade, within the meaning of Article 8(1). The law. No total assets of Sartida are listed and no initial balance sheet is formed, pursuant to Article 61(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law. Not even after a year has he cashed in the assets of a creditor that has not been sold to the buyer, according to Article 61(7). The law. It is not an educated bankruptcy on the date on which the bankruptcy is opened, as required by Article 95(1). The law, which had to be entered by the entire property of the debtors - new, mobile and immovable things, actions, founding rights in other companies. It has not been determined what is wrong with the outstanding claims for the goods delivered to the domestic and ino-market and what is with the money in Exim Bank until then. There's Exim Bank? Is that the bank that Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic were stealing? Is that the bank where we kept the foreign reserve? Yes, it is. So, where'd that bank come from now? How did the money from Exim Bank go missing? There is no record of what is in Sartid's German company, where Sartid's founder from Smedereva and other related companies with Sartida, the Sartida's daughter, are also opening bankruptcy proceedings. And, lo and behold, Branislav Ignatovic again for the bankruptcy manager. Well, the man's a superman. In August and September, "LNM holding" points to the government and to the bankruptcy manager two letters in which it reiterates its willingness to participate in the privatisation of Sartida with conditions that are multiplely better than those offered by the "Ju-Es style". Off the record, about $350,000 was offered and 50% of the debts paid. If that were true, here is the letter, to see the citizens, and it is addressed, I read: Aleksandr Vlahovic, then Prime Minister for Privatisation, Goran Pitiæ, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, Vladimir Cupić, Bankal Council of Trustees Milan Markovic, current Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Bank Manager Branislav Ignatovic. Let the citizens of Serbia see. It's about an offer that's much better than the results you got when you sold Sartide. From 27th to 30th October, the bankruptcy manager Branislav Ignjatovic is staying in America for the takeover of $500,000 worth of gold and $100,000 worth of gold jewelry. But that gold is gone, it's gone. The missing gold. Because a bankruptcy procedure was also brought before the authorities in America for a company that was attached to Sartida and which had a gold value of $500,000 and a gold jewelry worth $100,000. During the transfer of duties (meaning the bankruptcy mass of Sartida with the new manager) and in later contacts, the bankruptcy manager Branislav Ignatović pointed out that gold in America is worth $500,000 and gold jewelry worth about $100,000 and other things, the ownership of the company "Metal Chemical Corporation" whose founder, Jugometal, i.e. the bankruptcy mass of Sartida a.d. From the documentation at which we have established that the "Metal Chemical Corporation" opened up a liquidation procedure in front of the competent court in America and where Branislav Ignatovic was called as a bankruptcy manager of Sartida a.d. in bankruptcy for hearing in proceedings 30.10.2002. In the accounting of Sartida's bankruptcy, gold in the mentioned value is not recorded. That's what I read about the failures made during the bankruptcy proceedings against Sartide. It was an accident. Through the analysis of the documentation available, we came up with the following information, probably by accident again: the bankruptcy manager Branislav Ignatović, best man of Kolesara, officially traveled to America, to New York, in the period of 27-31.10.2002, not to read any further. Am I supposed to say that gold and jewelry were never found, that they were missing, that never in the bankruptcy that was being conducted for Sartide it was not registered and entered into bankruptcy? It was probably gold jewelry and gold in some strange way with Mr. Ignatovic. It was probably shared with someone, he couldn't do it alone, probably with the best man, but he couldn't do it alone either – being with some who participated in the privatisation process of Sartide. Next, on November 8, 2002, when you actually begin the second stage of giving Sartide, a business-technical co-operation agreement is concluded between the "Ju-Es style of Kosice" and Sartida a.d. in bankruptcy. "Ju-es style Kosice" and its firm in Serbia are entitled to manage the entire business of Sartida for five years with the exclusiveness of taking full profit from the current business, excluding any liability for any damages and losses that may arise in connection with the supervision of the operational, commercial, administrative, accounting and financial operations of Sartida. If Sartide is sold to another person, not "Ju-Es-style Kosice" over the next five years, then exclusive rights from that contract are automatically extended for the next seven years. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Serbia, the Ju-Es style, or Sartide, was privatised on 8 November 2002. By concluding this business-technical co-operation contract, the new owner, who would even buy Sartide, could not enter Sartide for the next 12 years. So Sartide is already privatized. Perhaps the new owner would accept that we have made a safeguard mechanism to preserve Sartide's assets and how he is responsible for the potential damage caused by his handling, that is, the exploitation of the Sartide plant. However, there is a legal problem. Such a contract shall be void within the meaning of Article 103. The law is contrary to mandatory regulations, which say contracts can be concluded in bankruptcy for the purpose of cashing out the assets of the creditor and reducing any damage and good business practices, that each relatively has the right to part of the profits. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the new bankruptcy manager gave up in advance what "Ju-Es style" or Sartid with "Ju-Es style" could achieve when signing this technical agreement. Such a contract is also ominous, according to Article 66. The law, since it conceals the second intention, sells a creditor in advance to a known and privileged buyer and one of the creditors to a creditor, so it cannot produce a legal fact. So let's get back to square one. First we set out to destroy banks that were loyal to Sartide, in an illegal manner. That was step one. The second step is to initiate bankruptcy proceedings before the local court. The third stage is the conclusion of this business-technical agreement, because it prejudges every potential buyer and gives the right to blackmail both the Government and the Council of Trustees and the Bank Manager that he is the only buyer, under conditions only he offers and in no other way. I believe that in 2008, 20 January, citizens will also take care of this when they vote, and I am convinced that, because of these abuses, because this is not the only one, you have nothing to look for in these presidential elections and that the new President of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic will, with all his heart, advocate to break up with such abuses, and that everyone responsible for this and any subsequent case will be prosecuted before the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14998	On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u14999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. It's a bill of law. For the sake of the public, I will read Article 21: ''The government will conduct a public procurement procedure for the selection of brokerage and drug dealers and authorised banks, which, under the authority of the rightholders, will carry out the first sale of free shares for those rightholders who opted to carry out such sales through brokers. The costs of brokerage services set out in Item 1 of this article fall on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget for free actions whose first sale of the right holder is carried out by 31 December 2011.' This particular date, which was set here, December 31st, 2011 is the subject of my amendment. I suggested that attitude 2 be changed and that in 2011 be replaced in 2015. The government explained its position as follows: ''The amendment is not accepted for the reason that a period of three years is sufficient for rightholders to decide whether to hold action or sell them. Prolonging deadlines would significantly increase costs and make it difficult for this member to implement technically, and create a long-term cost, i.e. a commitment to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which would be impossible to quantify. It is not indicated necessary and comprehensively that the Republic of Serbia bears the cost of selling shares for those citizens who decide to keep their free shares on the longer term in their possession." This article and my amendment must be associated with Article 16 of this Bill, which in paragraph 2, says: "The funds achieved by the sale of shares and shares, after deduction of sales costs, shall be transferred to the Special Account of the Action Fund open for those purposes". So, in this case, the state has charged itself the costs of sales and privatisation. She's not damaged. On the other hand, Article 21 of the bill predicted that the costs incurred in the privatisation process would be borne by the government and that the costs of brokerage services would settle to the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, this puts the unequal position of those citizens who are not committed to selling their shares in the post-2011 period, who want to retain their actions and to suffer market conditions, thus giving up their rights. He gives up his right because it is in the interest of the state to keep those actions and not to sell them, to have the state at its disposal, to place it and use it, to benefit from it, rather than from the citizens. The State hereby conditiones speedy sales, and it itself advocates by reason of this law and calls on citizens not to sell it immediately on the market, not to take compensation and thus to retain for themselves all the privileges that they will have on the basis of the action in the later period. It is also important to note that by such a provision, the legislator and the legislator of this law puts those who sell the shares in an unequal position until 31.12.2011 and those who will sell later. What is the difference whether the citizen will sell the action on 31.12.2011 or sell it on the first working day of 2012? It is in the interest of the state that it is working with these actions, with these values, and that, since it has paid all the costs, it is calming down because it has made a commitment to itself that it will – we have charged the costs and we will settle the brokerage house in 2012, 2015, etc. Given that the minister is here, I must say that, when the debate was in principle, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, on two occasions, unequivocally gave statements, in accordance with Article 2 provisions of the rightholders, mentioned refugees and openly said that refugees would also have the right to free action and the corresponding cash compensation. He said there would be a legal form in which all of this would be resolved. I can't see from the amendment, or from the discussion, I can't see any explanation from the government's representative that the refugees will be given the right to do so. Once again, I call upon the Prime Minister and the Government's representative to come out here and decidently state the official position of the government. The Deputy Prime Minister must have an official position. There should be a minister present here. I call on the minister to make an official statement after my discussion – do refugees and exiled persons have the right to free action or do they not? When we talk about privatisation, then we have to say that the current power after 2000 had a very sloppy approach to privatisation. Why? Because by adopting the Law on Privatisation in 2001, the desire and goal of the then government were to address the issue of privatisation in a comprehensive way, that it was a tool, to speed it up and to bring social property into a position that it no longer exists, to capitalise on what can be done, to cash and to put these funds into certain funds, first and foremost in the Fund for Development and other funds, and thus to overcome the concept of the property itself and to put it into office. The Privatisation Act did not solve the issue of privatisation in general, so then we went to the adoption of the Act on the Action Fund, the Law on the Privatisation Agency, so we went to changes in the law in 2003 and 2005, we now changed the Law on Privatisation and we are passing a Lex Specialis Act on Free Section of Action, in 2006 we had the Law on Restructure of NIS and we will have a lex specialis law on the sale of NIS, we will have a lex specialis in the law on EPS, Telekom etc. From one comprehensive law, we have come to an abundance of laws and sloppy and sloppyly solved this privatisation. It was meant to be armed, accelerated, with positive effects, with clearly set goals, with a procedure that is clear, decided, predetermined and clearly defined by law. We don't have anything out of it. We've got this mess today. Especially important is this law on free share action, which is pre-election. It will certainly not be put into operation as it is set here because, in order to achieve all of this in this accelerated process, we must have clearly set goals. The law has not set its goals, it is only one type of pre-election activity of the current authority and does not contain in itself everything that every law should have. Where's the exit? The outcome is that some new forces concentrate on this issue. After next year's election, the new force will certainly set a completely different principle of privatisation and bring new goals. That's why I'm using this pay phone to invite all my Krajina Krajina Krajina's Krajina's Krajina's Krajina's Krajina friends to come out and vote for Tomislav Nikolic. If God gives, we'll have Dr. Professor back in the course of next year. Vojislav Seselj, and then we will go into the most serious reforms, the most serious development of the Republic of Serbia, and only then will there be prosperity for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15000	Thank you, Mr. Buha. The word is Mr. Stupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15001	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, since Mr. Dinkic was not here before noon, when we asked him questions, I will return to what was the essence, which is important to explain to me, as an MP, I believe and a large part of the MPs sitting here, and certainly the citizens are interested in what it says in Article 3. "The person referred to in Article 2 of this Act (hereinafter: rightholders) shall be entitled to equal amount of cash compensation and equal number of shares of each enterprise... "Is this what this means, Mr. Minister, I don't understand, that you're going to give action – it says: they have the same amount of cash compensation and the same number of shares – will they get some thousand euros, so they will get shares on the same principle? Obviously, you should have arranged this differently. I wanted to ask you when you were away, so I'm asking the question now: how is it possible that today, when we're discussing this law, we don't have accurate records? You put in Article 2 that on the basis of electoral rights and the census, citizens will exercise their right. One part of the government said we don't have six and a half million voters, he was wearing a voter list, when he complained about you, and said there were 700-800 thousand citizens on the ballot, and there are many dead among them. Will you, on the basis of this last list, on the basis of the January elections, or will you conclude with the 31st 12th law and say - all of them have the right? Please, Mr. Minister, would you please explain to the public and to the MPs whether the free action section includes citizens who went abroad 20-30 years ago and who are still on the ballot list? What does that mean? It's just in the ballot and it gets right? Will the right under this law be given to all worthy athletes? And they're equal. Will, Mr Dinkic, right under this law be given to those who have become millionaires and billionaires in this country, who have become owners of half of Serbia? Is that equality to everyone? What about the citizens, Mr. Dinkic, who have worked the entire working life honestly? They've come into a situation where they don't even have the conditions to get to health insurance, they don't have the conditions to retire, and you think by one move, by giving them a thousand euros, you'll meet their needs. You can't treat the citizens like that, Mr. Minister. Is this your election campaign, but when you talk about equality, who do you think participated in building Belgrade? Do you remember, Mr. Minister, what New Belgrade looked like once, how many generations did that create? You took the rubber and you said one move-- sorry, dear friends, respected citizens, you've never done anything. What about the citizens who used to participate in the Joint Consumption Fund, who did, so they singled out into that fund? Someone got an apartment, somebody got a loan for the house, and somebody got nothing. When you talk about equality, then you have to take care of each segment. So he didn't exercise this right, he didn't realize that, then it's equality. And you take a certain segment and you say -- respected citizens, 1,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15002	The word has a minister of economy and regional development, Mr Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15003	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, to take the opportunity to answer these questions. First of all, refugees. As you know, Article 2 of this law defines exactly what conditions citizens need to meet in order to gain the right to free action. They must be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, according to the amendment proposed by the Privatisation Committee and the Government accepted – on the day of the law's entry into force. The version of the law originally proposed says it was citizenship on June 30th 2007. We wanted everyone who applied for citizenship, and the refugees were, we gave them the opportunity to gain the right to register if they got citizenship until the law came into force. It must, however, be drawn one line. The question is, if someone is applying for citizenship, why is it not approved by the competent authority within another period? It's a question for that organ, because we, as the Ministry of Economy, cannot get into these things. We have to draw one line. We thought it would be June 30th, 2007, that during the debate over this law there was no transition to citizenship just for the sake of this law. Let's be completely open. When did refugees come to Serbia? They usually came in 1995. If someone in 12 years hasn't used the right to enroll in Serbia's citizenship, it means he had some reason why he didn't want to. It is the free will of people to decide who will be a Serbian citizen. This law says - all who are citizens on the day of the law's entry into force, including refugees if they have become citizens until that period, have the right to free action. I think the largest number of these people have citizenship, that is, the largest number of people who wanted to become citizens. That's one thing. Secondly, an explanation of this last question – what exactly does the provision of a member mean - all the same in all businesses. In fact, it means that every citizen who is registered, if there are four million, all have the right to take action in all these companies that are subject to the law, as well as in all public enterprises that could go into the privatisation process in the next period, after the law has been passed. So each gets the same number of shares, equal values, in each of these companies, whether they're 18 or 118 years old, whether they're a student or someone who's 40 years old. Why? Because here you are, and you've asked what's wrong with those people who built these public enterprises, because it's almost impossible to fully balance justice here. Simply, the question of a criterion is very difficult to determine. We have come from the fact that if the heirs of those who have built, if they are not among the living, they get that right, that different generations get the same, and that way, how much of that justice is balanced. Of course it's impossible to fully balance it, I'm fully aware of it. We've been looking at all possible variations, but we've come from this to be some kind of balance. As far as these conditions are concerned, they must be cumulatively met. In other words, it's not enough to be on the ballot alone. If he has no residence (that's what you said), if he's on the voter's list, but he's gone, and now he's paying taxes in another country, so he's not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia -- he has no right. But regardless of where they are located, if they are cumulatively fulfilling that they are listed in the voter list, that they are full-time, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are on the day of entry into force of the law, that they are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or that they are temporarily displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, that they have not received free action in accordance with previous laws, from 1997 and 2001, means, if all these cumulative conditions are met – then they are entitled to action. It is important that all these conditions meet the moment the law enters into force, except for enrollment in the voter's list. So if someone is now not listed in the voter's list and meets the other requirements, it can be entered in the voter list during a period of at least six months. Since registration will begin only after a public invitation has been made public and at least six months, this law is indeed not for the purpose of a pre-election campaign. The election takes place in January, and this recording will take six months. I must say, this law will have a lot of positive external effects. One of the positive effects, I suppose, will be to update the voter lists. Now those people who weren't interested in being on the polling list, I guess, to get these free shares, will go on the list. It has no effect on these elections, it will have effects on some of the next elections, because the process takes six months. The other thing, if someone has passed away and is on the ballot, can't abuse that right, because by sublegal act we'll determine that only one who comes with a personal card can be recorded, as in the election. So the principle of recording will be - personally, whether it is employees and former employees of public enterprises or all other full-time citizens of Serbia. Registration will be on the mail counters. The mail will get the following things. First of all, the voter list, like when you go to the polls. So they have a ballot on the counter and a citizen only comes with a ID card, no other document is needed. When it comes to the Mail counter, then, if it is in the voter's list, it is circled that it fills out a simple form, where personal data are taken and where it signifies that it has not taken action so far, that it is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, that it has residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and signed the form. When that form is signed, it is sent to the Privatisation Agency. The cost of checking the accuracy of the data falls to the state. Therefore, citizens will not be sent to take out citizenship assurances, to pay taxes, but rather the Privatisation Agency with the MUP and other competent municipal authorities will do so and verify that it is true that someone signed that he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the Privatisation Agency already has a Privatization Register, where it will be checked whether someone has received free action before, according to previous laws, or not. In the end, it will be leveled, and any citizen to be registered will also receive at the end of this process a certificate sent to the home address, that he is in the stockholder base, those who have the right to these free actions. So that's how the process works. Our plan is that, with all the checks and any complaints that will follow for this or that, it will all be completed in the fall of next year and then we have a formed stockholder base. That's why I'm saying this law isn't pre-election. He says public enterprises should be privatised in the next three years. Some will use the initial offer method on the stock market, which is Telekom, Galenika, Airport and EPS, and time will be completely different. The most ready to go out on the market right now are Galenika and Telekom. The plan is to get out on the market in the fourth quarter of next year. Telekom and Galenika, in the first quarter of 2009, then goes to the airport in 2009 and EPS only in 2010, as it prepares for the procedure. As for the possibility that these free actions that citizens get on the stock market, they have the right, under this law, only within six months of forming a market price, so that they can have enough time to decide whether or not they want to sell or retain them, to stabilise the price when formed on the stock market, to get as much value as possible. Here, these are basically answers to questions. The important thing is that the Privatisation Committee adopted an amendment, which the government agrees with, that an attempt to mediate citizens' registrations is a criminal offence. So the owners of these agencies, which have been formed in the last two or three years, will be prosecuted under this law. It's got to be a personal record. It's exactly the same principle and logic as the election. Anyone who wants to exercise electoral right must personally go to a vote with a ID card. It's the same here, one who wants free action can't even send his father, his mother, or his family coming for him, but has to personally, with a ID card. The same goes for employees of public enterprises. Only for fixed persons will it be envisaged, exactly the same as in the election process, to form an appropriate commission that will go to record who is immobil and who cannot come personally. The principle will be simple - just a personal card and, second principle, just once on a counter. So, once a man comes to the counter and registers himself. Unless he's in the polls, but the one he doesn't have should know. Eventually, he could be returned, went to sign up for the voter's list, and came with that certificate. And no other documents will be asked of the citizens. The cost of checking goes to the state's burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15004	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15005	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Dinkic, you're wrong. Not only are you wrong, it's your hypocritical attitude. I listened very carefully to you earlier, in fact all the time, and you said - The Ministry of Economy has nothing to do with it if someone is not listed in the book of Serbian citizens on 30 June 2007. It is truly irresponsible to say this, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Dinkich, I'm telling you this from personal experience. As an opposition MP (I have reported to my colleague, Albianic, under Article 31, who regulates the law and obligations of the Vice-President of the National Assembly), I want to tell you that there is, in fact, the biggest problem. At this point, I cannot tell you, this is a question for Minister Dragan Jocic and the people working at work to receive a request for entry into the citizens' book, how many thousands, not to mention the refugee Serbs who have been exiled by the Croatian Ustasha authorities from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and Serbs who, unfortunately, have such status and are exiled persons from our southern province. But here I am only talking about those people who have applied for Serbian citizenship, and they are from Kragujevac. Let's just say I know a few dozen of them. Isn't that a lot? Here, I know a few dozen of them, you might know some people and who knows how many citizens know them. Do you believe, Mr Dinkic, that certain requirements of October 2005, which the MUP Kragujevac passed on on an up-to-date basis, have not been positively resolved to this day? Here, I have this latest case. And let me tell you, I can't sit on the back of Mr. Nemanja Bojicic, whom I really must commend, he's one of the associates of Minister Jocic, who's always come to meet me in urgent situations. Here's what. A few months ago, I was really asked by a young woman, a mother of a girl who was a few months old. In the meantime, the mother and her husband raised a market credit to buy an apartment in Kragujevac, that people have a roof over their heads, a young couple, can't register an apartment unless it's registered in a citizen's book. Otherwise, it is originating in Serbia's Montenegro, or Bar. A request for admission to the citizens' book was sent from the Kragujevac MUP to the interior ministry's competent service before she married and gave birth to a child. In that situation, because it was whether or not it was, people were waiting, they were competing with the corporation, they couldn't get those funds, they went to the bank, they raised this very expensive loan, I really had to call and ask, because it's such an emergency, to get citizenship done as soon as possible for that young woman. And what am I supposed to do with these other cases? They have colleagues here and other examples. Here, I'll tell you, Mr. Dinkich. A woman, a single mother of two, a prominent Kragujeva lawyer, is 40 and a few years old, originating in the White Field, not listed in the citizen's book. He's been living and working for a long time. He's a successful lawyer in Kragujevac. He's got two already grown sons. In April 2005, the lady, now not correct to say her name and name, submitted a request for entry into the citizen's book. Her son may have been enrolled in a citizen's book, this elder, I think he is, and the other child is almost old, full-aged, and he needs to exercise his electoral right. He'll be right and the mother won't, because she didn't, I know it for sure, because she asked me somewhere in August this year to see what happened. So on the day of 30th of July, she was not enrolled in the book of citizens. You had to resolve all this before that with the interior ministry, especially because of the fact that many demands have come from the moment Montenegro's secession from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro was carried out. Not that it's not correct, but there will be so much anger and anger in these people because it's amazing that the state didn't do the most ordinary, Mr Dinkic, administrative work. People went to the MIP's home service, applied, paid a tax (I don't know how much the Law on Administrative Taxes) and waited. Not for months, for years. And they're now denied their right. Secondly, I have to tell you, when it comes to the voter list, it's such a fluctuating category. We know this best who are dealing with election processes, especially us from the SRS who will win the 20th January elections and our candidate for president, but to ask your RIK member, that is this Belgrade lawyer Mr. Aca Nikolic, here, ask him, he is the co-ordinator for the Shumadian County, ask him – do you know, or do you know how many voters there are in Serbia? He can't tell you that. (President: Ms. Jovanovic, you would really have to stop because time is an imposed category. ) The voter entry deadline for these elections is January 4th. We, as a state, don't have a central electoral list, do you understand? These are two important categories, citizenship and a voter list. And the unsolved status of evasive faces. You say - he had time, 12, I don't know, 15 years to solve. Well, the problem is that these people are trying to resolve their status but they can't, they don't get citizenship -- right, Mr. Buha? - and they're losing the right refugees. I had to react. It's an example of a million. The law is not correct and it discriminates against these people. A lady from Batajnica, 1931, born in Benkovec near Knin, lost her status as a refugee and was not listed in the book of citizens. She's sick, she doesn't have a health book, she can't go to treatment, old, powerless. Then I had to call the Secretariat and Mr. Dabetic to ask later for refugee status in order to exercise the right to be treated. This law is not good. Pull it, Mr. Dinkic, until you re-read these terms, or accept the amendments of the SRS, because this is how you're going to discriminate on tens of thousands of people. (President: Miss Jovanovic, please finish. Here, I'm done. Thank you, fellow Albianic. (President: ever since you've finished, I've had to give you time for the next amendment. You can, but I think this has been useful for you too, to learn something about the state of things, about how it is and about citizenship and about voting rights, because you yourself know that we are serious people. After all, you have seen, and these are your impressions based on last night's magnificent rally in Kragujevac in front of 10,000 of my citizens and the citizens of Šumadija, that Mr Tomislav Nikolic is certainly a man who will win the elections and that his victory will guarantee that people will get citizenship and will resolve their status that has not been resolved in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15006	National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15007	By art. I have a question for the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15008	He can't do it. 225th and 226, Mr Vasiljevic. You started making up members. You know as well as I do that we have to do it on the agenda, according to Article 103. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15009	I don't know what's wrong with you. You seem to have remained fascinated by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's exposure, and you've gone completely wrong. Let me ask you a question because it's essential. I have been contacted by several employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in the social protection sector, with a request to ask the minister if the funds generated by the division of shares will be considered revenue in the year they are received or considered a profit in the year when they are converted into money. Why does it matter? If people who use material security today are registered as income in that year, they will lose the right to material security funds, and these funds will be much larger than the funds they will receive from the free share. That year, when they are sold, they will be left without a child's allowance, without material security, and their damage from the actions they have received will be far greater than the benefits they will receive, or those 1,000 euros. So it is essential that you answer the question: Will these funds be treated as income in any year or year when they are received or sold and converted into money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15010	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dusan Stupar. You'd better formulate a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The minister's gone again. Respected citizens, what is important, regarding this law and all other laws, is that ministers best defend the laws by silence. They're not in the O.R. at all. I was just about to ask Mr. Secretary if he was correct about what he just said, that he was going to establish on the basis of his residence, and suddenly he's gone. How is it possible, Mr. Minister, that you claim that someone who went to temporary work 20-30 years ago -- he did not give up his citizenship, he did not give up the state he lives in, he's in the voter's list, he didn't get the citizenship of Germany, he's still here, and you say, you'll find him on the basis of his residence? When are you going to determine that? This law is the same as when there was a discussion about buying the first apartment. Look, Mr. Buha just had an amendment to article 21. What's now proposed? It's like buying a new apartment. So, you're buying a new apartment, but only if you're not paying taxes through those "my pals" of these government friends who build these buildings. What do they tell the citizens here? When you get shares and shares, in the first three years you won't pay anything. Why? Because they already know who the tycoons are, who are their pals, who in the next three years need to pick up all those actions for free and become the majority owners of the Serbian Cells. And if after three years, you will pay taxes, then you will pay agencies, services and everything. So the point is, like you did when you cut the VAT to buy a new apartment, the first one, but not the first one, but the first one, the one you make. Again, you're making us who are getting the shares right away, and in three years' time, we have to sell them, because you say, "You won't pay taxes, you won't pay the costs of brokerage houses, and if you don't sell after three years, you know you have to pay for all that." Why do you even make citizens sell anything? It's acquired right, it's theirs, they don't have to sell at all. They'll leave their children, their grandchildren, that's what they've earned. Why charge them anything in the first place? Whatever you're suggesting, you're counting on a percentage right now. So whatever happens, you count immediately: VAT, Pitic, Dinkic, Vlahovic. New apartments, you again. You can't do that, gentlemen. Let this people exercise their right. You press people all the time. The minister's not here again. Please, Vice President, when he comes, answer my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15012	The word has been issued by MP Dusan Bajatovic, after the amendment. From what I understand, you wanted one sentence. You changed your mind? Here, it's your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15013	Mr. Albianic, I'm impressed by the way you observe the operation here in the O.R. I really wanted one sentence on Mr. Buha's amendment, but it turns out it's kind of pointless here to talk about amendments. This government seems to be engaged in spiritual activities. That's what, you know, they put a crystal ball in front of you and then they know everything that's gonna happen. So, what does this look like in Serbia today based on this debate here? So they are able to prevent the dead from getting those promised 1,000 euros, but they are unable to stop the dead from voting. Now I ask the following question: If those dead have the right to vote in the election of power, since the most often steals power in the elections, how do they not have the right to share, or free action? Maybe it's from a pie to a dead person. It's not the turn of one who died to cheat, as you will deceive all of us who are alive. Maybe she's working on her conscience. But let's go back to the amendments, to what's serious. Here we have heard one explanation by Minister Dinkic about the top capacities of the Serbian administration, which is largely multiplied, computerised, to the extent that it is able to carry out in six months a huge activity such as 4,000,000 citizens who will be set up, listed and paid, but at the same time not in the previous eight years have been able to make order in what has been most rebelled against, and these are electoral lists. If, from the presentation of Mr Dinkic, we can conclude, not because of the increase in intelligence or because of the automation and processing of data or because of the computerisation of our society, but because of the increase in the administration, that our administration is capable of enrolling 4,000 000 citizens in the Privatization Register, and this unique, studied, processed, incompatible with any theft in our society, let alone the fraud of citizens, I sincerely admire that statement by Minister Dinkic. So, what's my personal view of this law? This isn't just the most expensive campaign, gentlemen, which you can run, this is going to be a serious scam. I think that at this point neither the Agency's capacity, not to mention the absence of a strategy in privatisation, nor the sustainability of this government in perspective (so it is very lax, it can be seen, it can fall very easily; although your interests are beautiful and connected, this government may fall), so this law, thanks to the mutual blackmail and the effort to arm and finish the privatisation project at any cost, in the way that you imagined it (I will not transfer here the voice of the citizens who voted for me, so it is called the International Monetary Fund here in Serbia, the Burazer, the robbery and any other privatisation, but I will only say privatisation because it is synonymous for such processes), so this is another of the efforts of those who are representatives of the International Monetary Fund and that policy, which has not given sufficient good results and only in those economies where the IMF's been really advanced policy was real progressing, and we have not always been able to have the right to have access to the power of the economy, so far. So, I tried to be funny, I don't think I made someone cry because I was funny, but because of the perspective of applying this law, I'm asking you to keep this sweet-talking and basically with the thief's intentions explained for this pay phone, you don't defend legal projects that way anymore. In this law, gentlemen, there is no guarantee anywhere. It doesn't say anywhere, and it was very easy to write: all 4,000,000 citizens will get equivalent to 1,000 euros, which would be 4,000,000,000. On the other hand, Mr. Minister says - we have considered all the options when it comes to potential citizens of our country. First of all, we need to give citizenship to everyone we've told by law or who deserves it, and here's an option that hasn't been considered. Why is it not considered that all those who apply for citizenship, and obviously cannot be resolved (not guilty of Dragan Jocic, it is irrelevant to the name of the police minister, but simply the capacity available to the Ministry of Interior, the lack of people and equipment in the MUP, to say that all those who are entered in the electoral list by that date, and the entry into the electoral list may, whenever you want, so those who, for example, finally from 31 March 2008, submit an application for entry into citizenship, the moment when the MUP, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, approves their entry into the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, will exercise the rights that follow them under this law, if it is applicable at all. Therefore, I am absolutely certain that I have convinced you and the public, and above all she has avoided and displaced faces, that there was a possible solution that this problem leads to the end. So, those who have filed a request with the day – and when it will be resolved by the competent state authority, we do not know that, but thus their rights would be absolutely possible in the realisation of the law. Therefore, I would ask, when the minister arrives, it is not too late, the session is under emergency procedure, the question is whether today we will be able to finish it, if they don't piss us off, to consider the possibility of a date until which a request for entry into the citizen's book has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15014	National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15015	The amendment to Article 22 was submitted by my colleague Nebojsa Stefanovic and tried to regulate Article 22 to replace him in the positions of 2 and 3 in 2015. The explanation was that the amendment complies with the tabled amendment to Article 13. It's a bill of law. To make it clear to the citizens, I will read Article 13 and this amendment, which was submitted by Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, and is closely related to the amendment submitted by Ms Verica Radeta, who explained it extremely well. Article 13. The deadline for the sale of shares and shares: ''The action fund is obliged to sell and sell until 31 December 2008, i.e. within six months of the day of transfer of shares or shares, to the Privatization Register, if shares are transferred to the Privatization Register after 30 June 2008. '"This deadline, as foreseen by the bill, is too short. By selling the stock in such a short time, they will be reduced by their curtility on the market, so that, by doing so, the price at which they can be sold will be lower than real. My colleague Nebojsa Stefanovic wanted to extend this deadline to 2015 so that everyone would be in an equal position. The explanation of why the amendment is not accepted is: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that a three-year period is sufficient for right-holders to decide whether to hold on to actions or sell them. Prolonging the deadline would significantly increase costs and make it difficult for this member to implement technically, and create a long-term cost, i.e. a commitment to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which would be impossible to quantify. It is not indicated by the needs and integrity of the Republic of Serbia to bear the cost of selling shares for those citizens who decide to keep the free shares they receive on a longer term in their possession." I'm really sorry Minister Dinkic isn't here, so let's discuss something. He remained obliged to answer me, not only to me but to the public of Serbia, on which basis Mr Djelic was released from payments, whether as a foreign citizen of France or any country where he was - Ukraine, Russia, Poland. They threw him out of Poland, so they forbade him from entering. He's certainly not a citizen, but to find out where he's a citizen. I would like to ask Mr Dinkic - why do you place a nice story in this law about free share of shares, and then restrict the citizens of Serbia who will receive these free shares? In what way – this was explained by my colleagues, especially Mr. Stupar. And statisticalally and analytically, he proved that you don't give anything here, in fact, but children get what their fathers earned, even grandfathers, something that is literally an inheritance right. This literally puts pressure on shareholders to sell their shares as soon as possible and is now allowed, according to you, that you will pay brokerage services, opening accounts and everything else. So far in practice, anyone who wanted to go out on the market had to submit a request for the stock market, to make the biggest offer, the lowest offer they wanted to go to, to open the account that he paid and to pay for all the transactions on the stock market. All transactions were paid through brokers. The law stipulates that the government of the Republic of Serbia will not tender with the most favourable broker to represent all these shareholders. Why will the government find the most favourable broker and in what tender? Why not allow healthy competition, so any citizen who gets free action to choose his broker will go where he is offered conditions, where the minimum manipulative costs are and where he thinks that broker is good, that he will represent his interests and sell at the highest price, because when you give action, so that all citizens know, you also give the bottom line to which you want to go. Order size, if the stocks are currently 12,000 marketable, you can write that the lowest price is 10,000. An unsaved broker who can work for another side of his life, he can sell at the lowest price of 10,000, and could have sold by 11.900. This is where the suspicion opens, as soon as you get the citizens to one broker, you tell the citizens that they have to sell within three years, because after that there will be a cost to the state and then something will be created that will damage the state. It won't hurt the state. Why are the citizens being pressured to sell as soon as possible? The stock market system is literally strictly regulated by supply and demand. The bigger the offer, the more action will fall. The greater the demand for action, the more the action jumps. When you suggest to them that they sell the action as soon as possible, then you lead them into a state of error, that they go out into the market, that they all give. What I explained, we are such a people, better a sparrow in his hand than a pigeon on a branch, so they all run to sell. I guarantee, through this now, the actions you're sharing will not be worth a thousand if you're suggesting to the citizens that they have to sell within that time limit. What if one of the citizens doesn't want to sell, wants to keep it? I'll explain why every citizen needs to keep his actions and not go into the market on purpose. So that if successful companies were sold and privatised, Mr Dinkic would have talked about Galenica, and the two of us talked a lot about Galenica, and we're just going to continue the story further, every successful firm when it comes to the final account, means the stock company, it gives out its assets, separates funds into the profits of shareholders, and that's so on. It's a dividend. Any stockholder who retains his shares by the number of shares will get a dividend. The interest of shareholders who believe in this company, and as Mr Dinkic said, is extremely strong enterprises that we will privatise, so why would someone now sell if they knew that only on the basis of dividends would they be able to get much more money than the value of the shares. There is a deliberate suggestion here to sell the action as soon as possible, to buy those actions and to get into a position so that it can dictate both market conditions and everything else. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, he'll be back. I'm going to show you that this, as one of my colleagues said "poor" privatization of yours, I think Mr. Buha said it perfectly, this name is the best name for this privatisation that you're proposing to us. In order to support that, I'm not going to give you a single example of where we can talk about some companies that we know or anything, but to prove to you that you're conducting a sloppy privatisation and your directors don't know what they're going to do with you. In particular, Mr. Bulat, who is the director of "International CG" Belgrade, a restructuring firm, addresses the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Mr. Nebojsa Ciric, Assistant Minister, Privatisation Agency, Ms. Vesni Djindjic, Director and Mr. Branislav Zec, Executive Director, 3.12.2007. When your directors, who you've set up to work for you, when they complain about you and they point to malfeasance, abuse and theft, which I'm going to read to you here, she can only imagine how the rest of you are, to say independent directors or, God forbid, to you, from another party, but you take it off right now. I'll read it to you now. He says, "We provide you with observations and suggestions on the draft restructuring programme in which the ICG company's position has been contained, on the letter BDOBC Excel since 20.11.2007." Otherwise, the BDOBC Excel is an evaluation firm, she's doing consulting, I don't know whose firm it is right now, but from someone in power it's safe. They make a fundamental observation, ICG, which is that the submitted draft does not contain all the elements of Article 13. Regulation on the procedure and way of restructuring of the Privatisation Entity, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, number 52/05, of 21.6.2005, which we will specify in the further text of our remarks. So I don't read everything, I'll just read what's most important. They say: "Operation of company and business, page 10, at the profit center CG Trade and profit center CG Foreign trade, delete logo "Genex". The CG Trade left out that there is also a store in the border crossings, as well as a store space." So you put that away and it won't go into the privatization section. Who's going to buy that, that's going to be discussed. He says, "In line with this, in the part where the related foreign persons are individually spoken, pages 10 and 11, data should be provided for Internacional Forte Trading DOO, Belgrade, according to the following: Forte Trading DOO was established by contract 2.12.12.1999 between Internacional CG - 51% and Forte Trading Sex SRO, Prague, Republic of the Czech Republic - 49%, registered in the court register on 22 February 2000, under number 8FI1108. The main activity is the intervention in the sale of fuel, ore, metal". So he says, "translated into the register of economic operators by a June 3rd solution. 2005. No employees. Jobs from registered operations were performed by employees of the Business Centre "Spring Shop" of Internacional CG Company. On page 11, it was incorrect and legally unfounded that CG Budva DOO, after withdrawing its money deposit, ceased to exist as a legal person. The withdrawal of a non-money role is not a condition for shutting down the company... Mr. Albian, can I speak without you talking behind my back? I know you're not interested in what I read, but now you're exaggerating. "On page 17, within the price provided for the Hotel Continental, it should be stated that the prices are valid for standard rooms and apartments, and that the prices are de Lux and single rooms 205 euros, for apartments 390 euros." And that's where they wanted to steal it. '"Now we come up with much better things. "On page 20, the name CG apartments - Mala kula was wrongly given. There should be CG apartments - business spaces and listed should stand in the whole text of the draft. On page 25 in the section - Jugoturs, it was incorrectly found that Jugoturs paid a commission of 12%. On the contrary, Jugoturs collects the specified commission under each aotman contract." Look at what's being thrown out now, to reduce the value of the company. "Point 4. Airgenex, given incorrect data from the seat, Airgenex Business Centre, National Heroes 43, headquarters of ICG Company, which includes the business centre of Aviogenex, Vladimir Popović 8. In the context of the material means to which the Aviogens have to be fitted, sailboats with a winch, as well as workshops with related equipment and tools. It should also be noted that the accounting value given in the 2005 aviation table, even those planes, were slightly removed to reduce that. Property of the company on page 31 in section 1.1.1, the Continental Belgrade hotel, has been misdetermined. Is that deliberately reducing the number of floors now to make it less valuable to the hotel? In accordance with the copy of the Immobilisation List No. 31-37 should stand - next to 10 floors, and one ground floor and one basement. It's literally eliminated. It's a great value, especially in that location. In Section 1 of point 1 of point 2. CG apartments and the Small Tower Business Centre, the ground floor has been incorrectly established. In the case of apartments in accordance with the copy of the Immobilisation List No. 31-37 should stand floors eight, ground floor one, attic one. The small tower should stand - floors seven, ground floor two and one attic. In Section 1 of point 1 of point 3 of the tennis hall, other than the area of the building, the area of the property under the building, which is 26 acres (51 m) square, on which the company has the right to use. This is especially emphasized given the exceptional value this land is in that location, which may have an impact on the sales process in the function of the facility. It's listed further, and the Energan section should be added. The complex of Energan is not included at all, is not even included in the firm's assessment and is then said to specify the exact number of facilities and housing units used in the form of official apartments in Kopalnik and Raška. On the Kopalnik 102 residential units and four in Raška. Who uses these official apartments in Raska and whose property is this? What's left out of it? It says - in the section of the list of catering facilities to delete the "Ski-Bajf chiller" and add "Ski-Bif Cross", "Ski-Bif Jaram", restaurant Bonjornno and restaurant Hani-bani, as well as cafe bars Wiza and Barton. The following unnumbered properties, basketball courts, dental-volley terrain, tennis courts and small sports courts are added. It's one whole series of chronological things that's been skipped, and in the end, it's tied to the Genex debt beating and everything. Now that the director who belongs to your party can't handle the Ministry of Economy and the Privatisation Agency, what other companies are looking at, this company is still in restructuring. I must say immediately that Serbia's ski resorts are under this patronate of the CG international, but to say that they have called disabled Serbs, who have sent a regular memo to reduce their price of cableways, ski lifts and others, and that they have received a negative answer, that they cannot be reduced by price. If people are disabled, the state is obliged to help them. If the state is going to get rich that the disabled society is going to go to winter, to recovery and recreation, and that it has to pay a full price, if the state is going to lose, then let it serve you honor. If this country is going to make money on people with disabilities, then that's the biggest shame. I appeal to all citizens, when they receive these actions, they must address the minister before receiving, on which basis you have calculated the number of actions you will share with the citizens. It means you already know the assessment of all these companies you're going to privatize. If you know how many citizens are right, if you know how many shares you're going to share, you have to have grounds to start with math. The question is how is this value evaluated and I appeal to the citizens - don't sell the shares so some tycoons, suspicious guys buy your actions. Keep your stock, and we'll see if these companies are doing a good job, and now all these companies are doing a good job, and I'm starting with Galenika, and then you can go with your head all you want, prove that Galenika is doing a bad job. What you stole when you came in 2000, that's a different story. Keep your stock, we'll see, every firm that works well, you'll get a dividend and it'll be worth a lot more to you. If you all run out on the stock market, which Dinkic and everyone else wants, they'll buy you at a much lower price. One is the nominal value, the other is the market value. Keep your stock, don't rush into selling, it's been kidnapped by parents, grandparents, mothers, fathers, and now we're giving it to the kids. Well done, every child needs action. If you thought you'd buy a youth to vote for you and bring them into some state of error, you'd have a hard time. It is known which youth and all workers will vote for, with a heart for Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15016	The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yes, MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15017	Since this is about concrete proposals, I would ask the minister to come because there's no point in talking without him. (President: Please inform the minister to come to the O.R. Here you go. Please, it doesn't make sense, because I have to connect what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15018	Please report later when the minister enters. I can't get up now to go look for the minister. According to the amendment of MP Susana Grubjesic, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15019	Mr. Chairman, I understand that you're in a hurry to finish this as soon as possible, to get your boss of the party out of an awkward situation as soon as possible, but it won't be so easy on you. I also have some questions for the minister. I'm going to set them up now, but I'm going to repeat them again, and when she gets back, just to show and prove that this law is one big, colorful lie. First question - will citizens who under this law exercise the right to receive free action later be able to participate in the privatisation process in companies where they already work and who are not yet privatised? I'd like the minister to answer that question for me. Another question, if the technical minister is not familiar with the law, that is, how the laws are technically implemented, I'm interested, because he was yelling here with his ID card, one coming to the counter, and so on, and what are we going to do for the disabled? How are they going to sign up and get a right to free action? How are we going to get those who are sick, tied to the bed or are they in the hospital? How will they exercise their right to free action? They have no right to give authority. How will they exercise their right? That's right, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you write the law just for the sake of the election. That's the problem, the law was written just for the sake of the election, for nothing more. Let's go back to Sartida. I have completed my previous exposure to Sartid about the conclusion of a business-technical co-operation agreement. However, this contract by U.S. "Steel" has already bought Sartide, before any law envisaged to buy a person out of bankruptcy. However, it is necessary to create an illusion among other people who are interested that Sartide is a hopeless case, to get away from him as quickly as possible and not to think that this job that started U.S. "Steel" is a distraction and thus prevent U.S. "S. "Steel" from buying Sartide. What was achieved by a contract like this? Sartide has been given a new owner, and this is supported by the government of the Republic of Serbia, as Sartide's people, with the bankruptcy manager, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, account for Sartida's debt of $1.7 billion, reject such information by other potential buyers and reduce the possibility of Sartid being sold under more favourable circumstances. What's going on with the U.S. "Steel" basket? It invests 35 to 50 million, and it gets a guarantee of a mortgage on a high furnace and a 52 million dollar cold rolling stock facility. To remind me of Alexander Vlahovic's untrue statement, published in a number of media, after the bankruptcy, none of the creditors wanted to take over and finance Sartid without a guarantee, and that it was only accepted by U.S. "S. Steel" worth $50m. So, first of all, that's incorrect. I read and showed that there were more interested, more powerful and fairer companies, who wanted to participate in the privatisation process, or the purchase of Sartide. However, there are several material violations of the law regarding Sartide even when signing this business-technical agreement. I almost forgot, the fee U.S. "Steel" to pay Sartide was never paid and we can freely say that U.S. "Steel" bought Sartid our money that was to be paid on behalf of the conclusion of this contract. So, not even one single dollar of U.S. "Steel" paid the state for Sartide, so I don't say how much state had to and still has to pay off Sartide's debts under some annex agreement. We agreed to sell Sartide without any burden, on the one hand. On the other hand, the commitments we have accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia must calm down. What does that look like in a technical sense? The contract was signed on November 8th, three days after a signed business-technical co-operation contract, a bankruptcy council gives consent to the bankruptcy manager to sign a contract that he has already signed. So, now we're coming to that part, and I think that in all that story there was also an adviser to one of our fellow Members of the People's Parliament, he's not here in the O.R., and I'm going to keep his name quiet until he shows up here, who taught both the bankruptcy manager and Kolesar how to steal Sartid, the MP from the Democratic Party, and on January 23, 2003, along with Kolesar, he filed a report to the government of the Republic of Serbia on how to finish the business of Sartide. How far did that go? High-ranking official of the Democratic Party and MP. He was there when I started talking about Sartide, he froze his smile, and he ran out. I'm waiting for him to come back. So, 33 days after the signing of a business-technical co-operation contract, the bankruptcy manager is referring to a request to the Banking Council to give an opinion on the justification for the conclusion of such a contract. Now we've done our job, made a commitment, given some rights, and then we'll talk about the economic justification for the conclusion of such a contract. I guess that's what you do first. You know, when you go to the bank to raise some investment credit, they ask you for analysis, labs, economic cost-effectiveness studies, etc. And the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when they apply to these calls for favourable loans from the World Bank and these German corporations, must make one such report. He's got to do the whole study. No, when it comes to Sartide, then we're doing a study on whether that contract is good or not. On December 17th, 2002, an cancelled hearing for the determination and application, which takes place on December 25th 2002 before the Belgrade Trade Court. Do you know how long this hearing took? It took only one hour for a hearing, where each trustee made his request regarding a claim he had to Sartide. So the question arises how is it possible in an hour, how long did this hearing take, that the bankruptcy manager pleads on each reported claim, and then bankruptly greater considers it and makes adequate solutions. Do you know how many demands there are? Over 400. And it takes you more than two hours just to read the titles of those demands, let alone one hour to complete an entire hearing. What's the Trade Court doing in Belgrade? The trustees will be notified through the court's advertising board, and that means, on purpose, not in writing, because deadlines begin to run the moment when they are attached to the court's advertising board. And when they do that: December 26-27, just before the new year itself, when no one reads those ads anymore. The question is, what was the format of that piece of paper that was on the advertising board? The total reported claims amount to $572,957,000, of which the court has admitted about 255m, and about 316m has been disputed. This is what was recognised by the court that conducted the bankruptcy proceedings, and why both Labus and Aleksandar Vlahovic, all potential customers, except U.S. "Steel", represent and talk that Sartid owes $1,700,000 and that the new buyer will be obliged to accept it, so that all potential customers can be driven away from Sartide and that U.S. "Steel" will be the only one to participate in the procedure. However, you could not have messed up anything in the beginning of January 2003, so the Italian firm Duferko also protested government and court behaviour, and they were admitted that Sartid also owed over $100m, and urged all foreign investors to boycott Serbia, while Italy's Ambassador to Serbia, Antonio Zanardi, then calls the government for the first time and declares that they had been cheated and made an untrue promise that debts to Duferko would be regulated before bankruptcy. So, how are you gonna get into the EU when you're lying to them? You don't even care about the EU, you don't care about Serbia, you care about privileges; privileges pull power, power pulls money, until you clean up, that's all you care about. When you clean up, you'll probably end up on some exotic islands too, I just don't think you'll make it, January 20th is getting closer and closer. On February 12th 2003, a trading company from Belgrade named U.S. "Steel" Balkan d.o.o., with founding capital, was registered, guess how much? Five thousand euros. Five thousand euros was a founding stake, and took a billion assets. By establishing in the Trade Court any obligation by the American company ends with Sartide. So, at any moment, they can withdraw from the market, do damages that we can't compensate for, and we don't have a single dollar to ask for compensation, the only thing we can do is their $5,000 if we find them in the founding role. But be careful now who's doing it? The Dutch firm Tarobi Beher, from Amsterdam, director of Thomas Kelly, who is also director of U.S. "Steel" Kosice of Serbia, don't say you didn't know who they were. Tarobi Beher, there are more of them, are financial organizations that, after a job was done, have sold to their clients in a Slovak company, banned their work. That's what the Slovak government has notified the Republic of Serbia who Tarobi Beher is by letter. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers from the then government, some are now MPs, some are now ministers in this government, gathered around Boris Tadic, knew who they were dealing with. With con men, who are even banned from work in some European countries. However, in order for the Sartida job to be done properly, it is necessary to make sure that the trustees, or bigger creditors, who will give their opinions as Kolesar imagined, Vlahovic, Pitic and some other ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, are able to do so. Of course, the list includes 15 creditors, four of whom are our liquidated banks. The agreement on behalf of the banks, I read at the beginning, but for the sake of the Serbian citizens, I will read again and show, for each of these four banks, on the same date, on the same day, no one else gives advice to the Agency for Rehabilitation and Disposal of Banks Banks Banks, Miroljub Labus.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15020	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15021	So, when the bankruptcy has started, Mr. Albianic, you and your political option of time are getting smaller and smaller for you, and our time, the time of the SRS is just coming, we will convince you of that on January 20th, 2008 with all your heart and victory in the presidential election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15022	Thank you for your good wishes. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15023	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I am sorry there is no minister and I am very surprised, because as I recall, one of the conditions to vote the budget was the request of the G17 plus for this package of laws, and now Mr. Minister is gone. Look at the SPS parliamentary group, who is patiently sitting, discussing, actively taking part in all this, and unfortunately Mr. Minister who needs to hear this, to answer the following questions, there is no. Article 23(1) says - employees and former employees of the company who failed to exercise the right to free action in accordance with the Law on their own transformation and the Law on Privatisation, under the privatization carried out within the meaning of Article 19 of this Act, are exercising one of the following rights. The essence of the SPS amendment is that in terms of words -- they failed to exercise the right, they add words -- completely. It is precisely the rights of employees and former employees in these six public enterprises, such as EPS, NIS, Galenika, JAT, Airport. Unfortunately, this category of working people has been affected, completely or partly, by this law and it is not the only law in the privatisation process, i.e. the transitional privatisation that hit this category as well. It was precisely this amendment that was inspired by their demand to correct this social injustice, that in some way the workers' justice and these people who were employed in these public enterprises, and above all, they were you, one of those who believed the state that this package of laws wanted to bring something good to the workers, or to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is easy to promise those who do not know the details, what our respected colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, pointed out, is in the 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises, which the majority of citizens did not know existed and what was lost by this law, and by repealing Article 9a of that law on public enterprises. The SPS wants to point out that there are in these public companies people who are now working, who were once employed in other privatisation entities during the transition privatisation process and who acquired the right to free action in the privatisation process, but what is characteristic of the transition privatisation, which is bankruptcy. These people remained registered as owners of some actions, and essentially with imaginary papers, with worthless papers in their hands, with some registered right, but without satisfaction, without real compensation, without a real right to survive all this that is happening in the process of transition privatisation. Also, there are other categories of these working people in these companies that have acquired action. The privatisation process has been completed in some companies and other privatisation entities where they worked, but those actions have practically lost their rentability, have no market value. They think they've just been damaged, which now takes away their right to free action. When I say that, I want to mention, and I mentioned last time, many companies that went into bankruptcy unfairly, so I also mentioned to Negotino the Autotransport company Lasta, and Krajina winemaker Negotinska mlekara, I also mentioned Negotinka, a non-China print shop. The economy in eastern Serbia remained dreary, so I mentioned the last time and Graphica Pirrot, as an example of a company where, unfortunately, a contract with the Privatisation Agency was terminated and where the buyer failed to meet the terms of the contract. Those people stayed with the free shares, but as if they didn't have them, they stayed on the street, they stayed looking for a job. Now I want to mention some more examples, an example of the Bora copper printing, where privatisation was started under the Privatisation Act, where people gained the right to free action, but there was bankruptcy, and it was just by law, that rigorous law that DOS passed. Later from bankruptcy under the law, liquidation also took place. I also want to mention the company Centroistok Bor, next to the copper printing I mentioned, was a shopping house that was privatized, but the workers kept the stocks and those actions had no value. Why do I say that? Because it is precisely some people from these companies who have managed to employ themselves in these six public enterprises on special terms. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia know what they need to do to get jobs in well-standing businesses, including in these public enterprises. The special material conditions they had to meet are to be employed in such companies, so they also had to sign some of the accessions to certain political parties. Now the state is cheating on them with this privatisation law. I also wanted to say that I was comparing the law on my own transformation, that was how privatisation was done some time before DOS, that it was done slowly, that it wasn't hasty, that it was done carefully, that no harm was done to workers' rights, that no harm would be done to some businesses, that companies were revitalised. Then the DOS came, and then the Privatisation Act came, which wanted to do all this quickly in principle -- life can't wait. He didn't wait. Many companies went bankrupt. What happened? The result of the privatisation is a million unemployed, 400,000 pensioners below the 8,000 average pension, another 700,000 pensioners whose average pension is below the minimum consumer basket and another 400,000 children living in poverty. At this very moment, as we discuss these laws, I would like to remind the SPS that there are cardboard settlements throughout Serbia, where people are currently suffering and dying without electricity, without water. I just want to remind you of what was promised with this privatisation law when it was passed in 2001. So he says, privatising social and state property is the basis and precondition for the inflow of investment capital, restructuring of the economy and the financial market, creating an effective economic environment and faster integration into European and global integration processes. Does the current situation in Serbia look like what it says here under the preface of this law? I don't think so. Now I want to ask a question and remind you, we got a letter from the RTB Bor Union, where privatisation is coming. I would like to remind myself that RTB Bor was a confidant not only of Eastern Serbia's economy, but of the economy of Serbia as a whole, and that the Prahovo chemical product industry, which was part of this base, which was supposed to process all the sulphuric acid as a side effect of copper production and make artificial fertilizer, once had 5,000 workers, and today there are 700 workers of everything. Why did the union turn around? Because he's unhappy. Because the workers are protesting. First of all, the social programs they received had nothing to do with the prefix social and they noticed that the Privatization Advisor wanted to privatise the company by selling RTB Bor's assets. I just want to remind you that a member of this third law says -- the subject of privatisation cannot be natural wealth and good in general use as a good of general interest. Union workers know that the property, as an object of sale, is already classified on the property of basic activities, which is RTB Bor, surface spear Velika Krimelj, PK Cerovo, Jama, Flotation Kriljej, Flotation Bor, Mine of copper Majdanpek and Topinica and Refinery. Property of secondary work, manufacturing, which is the Belorek Peščar, the Kreča factory, the copper wire factory and non-productive property. So privatisation doesn't want him to realize that RTB Bor is a business and legal entity, but wants to sell his assets. The reasons for this privatisation of the privatisation consultant are the debts of the company towards the state, according to inconclusives, unclear ownership structure within the company, decline in copper ore production, quality of copper ore, high operational production costs, inadequate machinery and equipment. The union reminds me, RTB Bor owes the most to the state, so the state will be the biggest loser in this kind of privatisation. Why do not the claims made by the investifiers be transformed into action capital. The disputed ownership relations within the base, so the base Bor is like the base, parent, with all the dependent businesses exactly 100% of the property of the state. If the state wanted, it could solve it very quickly and very effectively. The decline in copper ore production just occurred when crisis headquarters came and started handling the production process. The subsidy granted by the State is granted exclusively for employees' salaries and does not want to invest in equipment and re-promaterials. It is that our ore is copper-poor copper, 0.36% of all. Studies suggest that rentable production is if the world market price of copper is only 3,000 dollars per tonne. She's currently $9,000 a ton. Just for the end, the union suggests, here is Mr. Minister to hear, well, maybe he didn't know, maybe they served him differently, the copper ore reserves are 1.9 billion tons. The world price of copper is stable, with a trend of growth, and now it's $9,000 per tonne. A short-term investment study from 2006 to 2011, done by the Faculty of Mining and Geology, confirms that out of the $26m invested, it will secure a profit of $67m. There's a lot more to be said, unfortunately time is running out. These are the problems she wanted to point out to the SPS as far as this member of the law is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15024	Thank you. Your colleague has a word waiting for the minister to return, the word has a National MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic, and then MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15025	Fellow MPs, related to the agenda point, and yet related to the town of Kraljevo and Magnohrom, are still privatising, and since we now have this new privatisation law regarding public enterprises and some fictitious 1,000 euros, the question is whether they will be able to implement it in 2-3 years, when you intend to do so, and whether it will be 1,000 euros or not. So you didn't give the equivalent that people are sure it's going to be 1,000 euros now and then. Another thing, please, if you could follow me because it's important things. The king is in an alarming situation, Magnochrom is in a difficult situation. You've done one thing, and that's the end of the contract. So, December 17th, you broke your contract with Global Steel, but that's not settled. The question of workers was not solved that way, but now the real question has come to what now. The workers couldn't wait for the issue to be resolved, the contract to be broken, and now that the contract is broken, they suddenly stepped into a one-way situation so they don't know what they're going to do next. Before this privatisation law, which is now in order, people need first to understand what we did with the previous Privatisation Act that we already had. So, the previous Privatisation Act, by which we've privatized so far, has actually led a crowd of people to a beggar stick. Which is the law now, what kind of privatisation is now, if we haven't solved the question or completed the previous Privatisation Act, which has caused a lot of misery, because you saw it was wrong. Now I can think that it was some mistake, that there was a mistake in the steps, that it couldn't have been predicted that it would all work and that all the consequences would have. Maybe in some part I can understand, because a man can't get ahead of himself so he knows how it's going to go. But keep in mind one thing - that this previous Privatisation Act refers to very logical thinking. You know how, first of all, you wanted the state to recover, you did the so-called first thing. The social program, who wanted to go to the work desk, here-us, etc., you found some systems and relieved certain companies of a certain number of workers. For example, Magnoch had over four thousand workers, and with that social programme, it reduced to two thousand workers. At the moment of privatisation, he has 2,205 workers. What was supposed to happen? There was supposed to be privatisation, people were looking forward to coming in. The Indian, Globalstil, the richest man, and everyone in the King, we were happy that he was finally going to work, he was with less workers, but it was going to be a very profitable company. What happened? It happened that the Agency had just deceived all of King's and all of Serbia. How did she cheat? She cheated by, first of all, allowing a very big time for the Buyer Globalsteel to change his mind to start investing in that company he had a contractual relationship with and had a certain obligation to invest. In a year, however, he has not invested a single pair, not a single euro. You, as the Agency, let him go. What did you do for it? So there's one logical conclusion, no matter what I'm from the SRS, you have to make the same conclusion, that you've had all of this backwards so far, and that you're supposed to come out with another law here with us, to supplement this previous one, and see what you're going to do with these workers, and not now, when it's a pre-election campaign, to offer us some fog again and that people don't know what's going to do with this again. I'll talk about this law later on about these citizens, the free actions you're offering. Please, come on, first, let's solve this previous privatisation. I did mention "Magnophrom" a few times, but that doesn't mean we solved it. I will not move from here, believe me, not now, but from day to day, I will ask everyone from government what they did with Magnochroma. Thirty thousand people depend on Magnochroma; 30,000 refugees. What shall we do in the King? For you, Belgrade is everything. You don't seem to have a geographical map, gentlemen of the government, as if you don't know that there is a Royal, a Kruševac; the Chačak is known, Mr. Velimir Ilic has promoted his Chačak. I apologize to the citizens and the audience, but you must have, first, a geographical map, then an economic map. So, the King exists, there are 120,000 inhabitants, there are 30,000 refugees, there are all the privatisations that are upside down and there are Magnohras with one terrible current situation, where people are crying, crying, children are at stake. Imagine, when he doesn't have a certified book, the doctor doesn't ask him, they're all hurt at government, government, state and all. They say go home, woman, you don't have a book and you're done talking. What do you want him to pay for? Do you know how much copper syrup or any? Does it come to your senses what I'm saying? Maybe there's no need to talk this emotionally, but I can't talk any other way, I'm a man of the people, I think all the people of the people are here. We're lonely here, in these four walls, and we think we're something else entirely. No, we're people like everyone else. Let's understand these people. So you need those health books to solve the emergency. How is one conclusion logically stated? Please, ma'am, if possible, let's just finish this Magnochroma and settle this issue. In the meantime, your agency is delaying the termination of the contract. Now, watch what's going on - the contract's off-limits. During that time, Magnochroms are being sold out, a large furnace is collapsing, it's being sold into old iron, and the country's obligations are piling up. I ask the ministry gentlemen, if the government's obligations are accumulated in terms of contributions from pension and health, etc., why didn't you force, and I have information, and not only information, but also evidence, that the financial police have intervened many times, that both the tax and the financial police intervened, that she has imposed on the gentlemen of Globals that she has to pay what she has to to to the state, which is what all private people have to pay. That Globalstil didn't have to pay. How could he not have had to pay? Who gave him permission to remain in debt to the state? Who's gonna pay for that now? Who's going to verify those books and pay off all the backlogs? It'll have to be the state. Then what did you do? With the help of the state, a stranger robbed our state property. Is this coming to everyone's mind? Do you understand what's going on on the ground? I have a feeling that you don't know, that you may not be directed, that you don't have good associates, counselors, I have no idea. But after this kind of exposure, after this truth, so this isn't solved, I don't know what could happen. One more thing to ask you, I don't want to abuse a pay phone for some pre-election purposes, we had our first initial pre-election rally last night. I don't want to involve him here. But I'm asking you, if it wasn't for election campaigns right now, would this law be up? You would? Now I'm asking you, if you wanted something better for this people and yourself, why, first of all, didn't you fix this previous law, why did you let these people on the street without social, health insurance, without anything, why didn't you solve it? Then we'd get points. So I'm asking to get rid of Magnochrom. I'm not asking, but you'll have, believe me, big problems. So this has to be solved. That's one thing. Another thing about citizenship. He says it's a problem of citizenship to assign free shares. I have two concrete suggestions here. People ask, they're interested, rightly so. You said -- it would be the law of order, it's okay, but why now, again, I have to go back to Article 2 of this law, where it says -- the right to free action has all the full-time citizens of Serbia who are enrolled in the voter lists. What did you tie to the voter lists? What are you putting a certain worm in people's heads and buying people again for some small and cheap money? Don't do that. The Albian just asked if I had kids, why don't I go look after the kids? This is where I keep them from you. I keep it, because you're gonna sell everything, mine and yours, and everyone's kids here. Don't do this anymore, I'm telling you the truth. One more thing, I ask you best to follow me, this isn't my story, this is a letter from a professor of chemical science, a retired man, who has a good proposal, and you now listen to this proposal and see if it's possible to fit into these existing amendments and that he can have some legal form and people to meet. Here is the problem, according to this view of the bill, the right to free action does not have a huge number of Serbian citizens who have even spent the entire working century in Serbia and are listed in Serbian citizens' lists if they are born in Montenegro, and therefore have Montenegro's citizenship. And not only are they, but also their children, who, despite being born in Serbia, are citizens of Serbia since their birth, also have no right to free action, because they are, according to earlier regulations after birth, automatically enrolled in the citizens' home book in the father's birthplace, therefore, as citizens of Montenegro. This, of course, was not a problem until 21 May 2006, because until then they were citizens of Montenegro and of the citizens of the SRJ, i.e. the last three years of the community of Serbia-Montenegro. Since this date until now, for the past 18 months, all citizens of Serbia who are being held as citizens of Montenegro in their home books have been born without Serbian citizenship, because they have lost their citizenship without their own fault, and the government of Montenegro is public, you must bear in mind, threatened all of its citizens that, if they get Serbian citizenship, they will be deleted from the book of citizens of Montenegro. As Serbia-Montenegro governments, meanwhile, failed to agree on the dual citizenship of their citizens, when the mention of the law on the distribution of free actions was adopted, all such citizens will be disbursed because they do not have rights on this basis either in Montenegro or Serbia. He's making two suggestions. I ask you to pay attention, it's possible, I see that they're logical, see if they have legal grounds that they can, and if they don't, say what they don't have. What's wrong with the whole story? One is -- the right to free action is also the citizens of Serbia who had SRJ citizenship by 21 May 2006. That's one suggestion. The second -- alternatively, the right to free action also has Serbian citizens who had SRJ citizenship by 21 May 2006, on condition, and this is a good proposal, to provide Serbian citizenship after they are given the right to double citizenship. It's not people's fault this isn't working right now. These are some two possibilities. Under this current Privatisation Act, I'd just like to point out, we also have a lot of pressure from the Earth Cooperative Unity from the Podunavacs. Write this down, because I think it's the product of pre-privaced privatisation, and people now think that no one is responsible for anything, so they do. The U.S. Unity is absolutely sold out by the will of one man. Everyone else doesn't have any rights. The land is sold out, the bars are sold out, everything there is and nothing's answered. People don't know what to do, somebody's gonna kill somebody, I don't know what's gonna happen. Please, look at all this. It's all your fault. Did you know or didn't you know I don't know, but now you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15026	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15027	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to answer this question of the MPs. As for "Magnochroma" in the King, after what I heard two days ago, when you spoke, I spoke to Mr. Rasim Ljajic, and we really believe it's justified that one-time cash aid be paid to Magnochroma workers who are without pay for a long period of time. Currently, there are only two million dinars in the budget available to the Ministry of Social Protection. We will try until Thursday from the current budget reserve to provide additional funding and that the one-time assistance is approved by the government already on Thursday. If not, I promise it'll be at the first next session after New Year's, when we have the whole budget. That's one thing. The second thing, from next year's subsidy budget, is that we will help prepare Magnochrom for a new privatisation process through certain support from subsidies. For the sake of knowledge, of course, I wasn't running that privatisation process when it happened. There's a difference between brothers, not even born brothers, Mital, it's important that the public knows that. One of them is this "The Pram of Mital", which ran Global Style, is obviously an unserious partner, because it happened that he didn't meet his obligations and the contract was broken, and the other brother, who isn't even in good relationships with each other, whatever writing is in the British press, is called "Lakshmi Mital," and he's one of the richest people in the world. He's serious, but they didn't participate at all in the Magnochroma. For the sake of knowledge, we're not going to generalize Indian investors right now. This one was obviously inconclusive, but it's not a worker thing right now. I did not participate when the tender was called, however, I now have an obligation to deal with the consequences as a resolution minister. Our control was the first time this summer, we had to wait, because under the previous law it was a year to pass and see if the obligations were fulfilled. Since these obligations have not been met, the contract was terminated on December 17th. As first aid, one-time cash compensation will be paid, and then subsidies. We'll see how we can try to do something with the Magnochroma, prepare it for a new tender. One more time to repeat what happened this morning. It was a question - why the voter list? Just for one reason. So only those citizens who recognise the state of Serbia can get the right to register. In other words, Kosovo Albanians, unless they want to be on the polling list, have no right to free action either. There is no other reason why the voter list is used as an additional reason for the right to receive free action. I gave that answer this morning. Finally, I would like, as an authorised proposal in front of the government, to withdraw the government's amendment to Article 26. In the meantime, the Privatisation Committee has submitted a new amendment, which is better than what we had as a government, which is that the right to receive free shares is for those who have acquired citizenship on the day of entry into force of this law, not as originally proposed on 30 June 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15028	The word has a National MP, Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm afraid of Magnochroma workers, because where you have the opportunity to have money, that's already a question of discussion. We're talking about sharing free shares, about those who didn't participate in privatisation procedures. The question arises -- how has privatisation been done so far, how have privatisations been done in Serbia? The companies that have been privatised, how have these companies been privatised and what is the outcome of these privatisations so far? As the privatisation you've spent these seven years seems to be in practice, our former employees of their businesses know best. Everything that was good in this country you sold out at ten times the value of your partners, taking huge commissions. When it wasn't enough for you, you bought your own companies, such as the company "New Home" and former Minister for Sale Aleksandr Vlahovic. Almost a year ago, I pointed out to you Mr. Vlahovic, Cvetkovic, the firm "Ces Mekon" of a certain Mr. Nenezic. That Nenezic also mentions Djordjevic "Sinalko" in the kidnapping of his firm, and that Nenezic must co-operate with these Cvetkovics, with a minister or son. So to sum up just, this is called burazer privatisation and all the main actors that were in the government, or are now in the government, we are well-known. They stole huge transition profits, while at the same time the people and the state became increasingly poor and poorer. The question is, can anyone in this country prevent our economic and national tragedy? Be assured that we radicals can do it. We're going to review the privatisation and return the kidnapping, and everyone who's been working under the law can be calm and calm, and criminals will be put in jail. In addition to many criminal privatisations, a special accent will be placed on the privatisations of some companies, which have been bought for little money by those who today take away from us the Serbian country of Kosovo and Metohija, and have previously killed Serbian children. I mean, two companies where they own the American company now. Zelizara in Smederev was donated to the US company only two weeks after the murder of Zoran Djindjic for only 21 million dollars. Why? Which is why she was donated for $21 million. Whose interests are represented when it's only sold for 21 million dollars? Who took the money here? What kind of politicians represent American interests? The privatisation of the Nis tobacco industry will also be subject to review. The factory was sold at a much lower price and Philip Morris was given an absolute monopoly on the Serbian market. That's all thanks to you, thanks to DOS government. How Philip Morris treats your customers, ask your neighbor whom you buy bread every morning. They will best tell you how Philip Morris behaves. At the same time, Philip Morris will have to answer the question of whose Marlboro sold the two largest cigarette smugglers in the area, Cane and Milo. One thing is certain, Cane and Milo did not produce Marlboro, they only sold someone's Marlboro on this market. Is there any dirty money in the privatisation of the Nis industry? The convincing victory of Tomislav Nikolic will bring about the first precondition for preventing our economic and national tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15030	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Dusan Bajatovic, as a proposal for this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15031	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry the minister left. I'm glad the board of directors extended the time limit for citizenship so that citizens can exercise their rights, but you haven't heard me again. So you want to quit here without any need. Let us adopt at least that amendment that says – those who have applied for citizenship until the date of the law's entry into force. It is not possible for the Ministry of the Interior to comply with all the requirements, however hard Jocic tried. What are you stubborn about, I don't get it at all? You're fixing things completely sucks. Come on, meet me again. Therefore, for all persons who have filed until the day of the law, and the right to obtain the moment when the Ministry of Interior gives them permission to enter into the book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand what the dispute is about. Don't let us now, by administrative measures, lift people's right, to avoid and displaced persons who have the right to do so. Don't let some draw line in a stupid way... The minister returns, so I'll do it again for him. So, Mr. Minister, in order not to waste time, the idea is that once again on the committee responsible for these issues about who has citizenship and who has no reason to meet the conditions we try to agree, not to be those who got citizenship on the day of the law's entry into force (see me freely, I will not say anything ugly), but those who applied. Because it is not possible for the Ministry of the Interior to resolve so many demands, but for those who have submitted at least until the day of the law's entry into force, that the fewer people who have the right to do so would be deprived. If you agree, it might be appreciated. You fixed this now on the board, but that's not enough. So, until the day of submission, if the Home Office approves such a thing. Furthermore, this law is called the draft law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. If I'm not mistaken, it should be your version of the development of Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises, if I quote wrong, you'll correct me, where it's said to be 15% for citizens and 15% for employees. If I'm not mistaken, here you are now trying to introduce a kind of social justice. I have to tell you, you remembered too late. Under this kind of privatisation, implemented under the rules, that is, by the laws passed by the prodosovic political elite in Serbia, privatisation is called burazer, robbery, robbery, and however you wish, and the people rightly say so. What bothers me the most personally, you will understand me as educated people and representatives of the government, is what she is, however, and with these repairs, socially unfair, and what is worst, economically inefficient. This privatisation was supposed to have as its starting point a new good management, new technologies, new employment, verified capital and conditions to compete on the world market, not just on the domestic market. We just got new owners, often of suspicious origin, and I appreciate very much that Mr Dinkic remembered after six or seven years of implementing this concept of privatisation that he firmly promised us, and we all know that he is a man of his word, which he said and did, that there will be no more dirty money. It's been six years. Enough of the dirty money, enough of the tycoon, enough of the power and the tycoon, now it's all gonna be fair. I want to believe that. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have to admit you didn't read me right. So I suggested not to be assessed market value but to say accounting value. Why did I ask for that? To really make up for what they've been robbed of. Why? Some people in the O.R. just figured it out, as the young people say. It's no problem for me to realize that the market value is far above the accounting value recorded today by our companies, because we have not complied with international accounting standards. We had this, what's called, the bankruptcy mafia, so we had a bad story in accounting itself, and our companies are very often low down. After all, when we were privatizing, and I don't see any privatization consultant doing it, not only did we not respect the fact that we're robbing ourselves, but we forgot to include something called intellectual capital in the value of the company, but I didn't see anything that was involved in the privatisation, and we also have some patents and some valuable people, so the value of the labour force that is coming is not included, but workers are just being treated by the term of extra workers and those who need to stay. So it's not included that we're very often on sale, they're cementists, they're selling our market completely, and it's not valorized at the price of so-called. Market transactions that have been made. Next, why did I want it to be accounting value? Because if we gave a percentage by book value, and gave it to the workers, the moment they went out on the market, the fact that by book value it was a little sudden would jump on the market and the workers would get more money. So it was the idea of this amendment, but never mind, let it be market value. Interesting questions are next. In Article 24... If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, since there are several amendments, I'd like not to return your call because we want to finish by six?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15032	Yes, but hurry up, Mr. Bayatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15033	I didn't see, Mr. Grouchy, that it was you again. Nothing without you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15034	Just no commercials, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15035	This isn't a commercial. This is my honest thinking about you. Whenever someone is serious about the opposition behind the pay phone, they send Mrkonjic because he has undeniable authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15036	Don't, and Mica Albianic runs a nice session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15037	So I'm going to connect this to the story in Article 24. You say here that the 2.5% you planned instead of 15% to give to workers, employees and former employees, you say that the total cash available to pay the company's rent bonus is, so you mention 6 companies, for NIS 100 million, Telecom 160, EPS 220, JAT 11, airport 4 million and Galenika 17 million. If these figures represent 2.5% of what you think these companies are worth, listen to me, gentlemen, they'll be worth these figures, if this is 2.5%, so if 2.5% of NIS is 100 million, that means NIS is worth 4 billion. Who's to say that? I think it's worth more. I can prove it's worth more. With the market, with rights and give God with the Russian Blue Stream and with this geographical position of Serbia, NIS is worth much more. Don't laugh, Mr Dinkic, if you had a better relationship with China and Russia, at least the way you have with Germany and America, it would be better for the Serbian economy. We are interested in the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens, not ideologically, and particularly ideological economic prejudice. So here says Telecom 160 million, if that's 2% Telecom worth 6 billion and 400. Whose estimate is that? If EPS is 220 million, that means the EPS is worth eight billion and 800 million. If JAT is 11 million and if that's 2.5%, that means you estimated that JAT is worth at least 440 million, etc. The 4m-euro airport, which means it's worth 160m euros for Galenika, means that Galenika is worth 680m euros at your estimates. When you add that up, it's a 21 billion circus. Since you here in article 31 are inaccurately stating that other public enterprises will... the provisions of this law in the act governing the transfer of actions without compensation to citizens and the rights of employees and former employees are applied accordingly to other public undertakings and companies with the majority participation of state capital... Therefore, this does not apply to all citizens. So, all citizens, in my understanding and interpretation, if I'm wrong, the minister will correct me, he won't get anything from other public enterprises except employees and former employees. We have 21 billion here, at your discretion. I assume that various tenders and auctions will raise the value of these companies, that would be realistic. By my estimate, EPS is worth at least 10 billion euros. So don't hurt us for that billion. You need to get to about 30 billion euros so you can give everyone that famous thousand euros. What I would like to share more with you, Article 9, says: "The person whose application has been rejected has the right to appeal to the minister responsible for privatisation affairs, in the text of the minister." You know what, Mr. Minister? About us MPs, thanks to writing a yellow press that is very often controlled by tycoons and individual power centers belonging to individual ministers, people have a poor opinion, an understated opinion. I want to defend every fellow MP, it doesn't matter which party it's from, because we're speeding this up now because the government couldn't agree all summer, and in fact, the ruling elite can't agree between themselves, and we're looking as an opposition to fix your mess as much as possible. The Ministers have an even worse opinion, but the press is less written. Don't let the minister arbitration on my rights. About my rights, someone else must be adjudicated, it can't be some agency or some minister, as part of the state government. You've predicted this here, otherwise this law has a great arbitration role for the government, and to prove to you from what I conclude, as well as many indiscretions, I'm going to refer to the Government's argument, which is not about Article 23, but about Article 31. Listen, gentlemen, what the government gentlemen say, and you, I understand, have been calling all day. It says - such a solution is necessary for the reason that identical privatisation models cannot be applied to all cases of public enterprises, which is logical, i.e. at this point the Government, as a bill promoter, does not have a privatisation strategy for all public enterprises, and it is shown that it is necessary to leave the possibility that, depending on such a strategy (just don't know what kind of strategy) will be envisaged (and then says what really bothers me) by special regulations (probably subleged by the Government, which is immediately going on my nerves and products of doubt, sorry for being so expressed; you can't sublegal acts to regulate those rights that you previously decided to regulate by law, because then you have to tell us exactly what you'll edit underlaws) different ways of achieving the rights of citizens. I'm sorry, please, citizens can be miserable, they can be miserable, they can be unemployed, they can be apathetic, this law of yours can only go public for the reasons people say -- everyone cheats on us, they've all cheated on us, better than nothing, which means that the people have agreed to some kind of condition and I invite them to come out of that situation as soon as possible. But as a People's MP, I don't want to agree that in the context of even your declared democracies, or the version of democracy that you know, I have been ruled by sublegal acts, and that before that, it is not specified in which domain and in what way, it solves the right that should be determined by law until the end. After all, lately we've brought here a lot of legal projects that are vague, inaccurate, very often predict some side-line decision-making and things like that. What democracy are you talking about? Democracy means very clear procedures. Democracy is cruel when it comes to law enforcement and rules. Therefore, what is certainly controversial in this law is this kind of inaccuracy, that too much is left behind, doubting that citizens are really going to get a thousand euros, because there is no mention here of a thousand euros, that citizens will not get a thousand euros anywhere. In addition, the explanation that this act will improve the market of securities of value, except for the absence of the education of an average citizen, which the government does not do in a quality way, I say, because the question is when will citizens get this, and here someone said that there are members who simply put pressure on them. Even one member is predicted that under special conditions the government can do something about my actions. My actions are either mine or not mine. Either I have them or I don't have them. What they say will be an even distribution, does that mean, Mr. Minister, that Telecom will have four million new shareholders, that the EPS will have four million new shareholders, that the airport will have four million new shareholders. What administration will defend that? This incompetent woman who only has unemployed party champions, as a rule illiterate and unprofessional for what they do, honor the exceptions. My colleagues from the Kings, since I was in Magnochroma and I saw grief, it's absolutely true that the government had a complete absence of reaction. I'm not interested in which of the Mital brothers is a positive character and which is not. The government had to know that. Another thing, why have you waited so long for a reaction? The third thing, gentlemen, is that this government is very prone to understanding human rights, is very sensitive, even hypersensive, in accordance with its democratic definitions, to human injustice. I call on all those who are damaged in the thieving, the burazer and other privatisations and the bankruptcy to come to Belgrade. I am absolutely sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respecting democratic norms, democratic rules and the need to fight for civil rights, human society, which means probably full employment, because employment is the best social programme, will find solutions. Don't let us solve problems just Belgrade or just my beloved New Sad or just my very esteemed and beloved Vojvodina, for which I want to fight as a local patriot. Let's solve the problems of both the Kings, the Kragujevac and every other city, Kruševac at Mr. Milivojevic's, to increase the sales of burgers and what goes on. So, please, maybe this is a good way to go, maybe then the government will understand that the newly established post-five-octobaric political, economic and cultural elite government for eight years, with a call for top values, declared democratic values, and that Serbian citizens see and feel little. They feel on their skin and in their hollow pockets, and in the imperceptibility of both themselves and their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15038	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15039	Just a quick answer. Yes, four million will be shareholders in Telecom, EPS, NIS, and they will freely decide whether to remain shareholders or sell their actions, that is their free will. Also, just to be clear, these bonuses have been dropped by an amendment from the final text of the law. Our idea was to offer employees and former employees two options or a cash one-time bonus or action. The unions finally said -- better if we don't have a choice, just give us some action so we don't have any problems between us that people define whether they're for a bonus. Those who have had years of internships may want a bonus more, etc. Anyway, it's out. Otherwise, the value of the bonus does not actually reflect the value of the company under this 2.5% criterion, but we have counted four thousand euros times the number of employees and former employees in the company. That's why you get such big differences when you apply this criterion. So it was not a criterion that the bonus is equal to the estimated value of this particular company, but a bonus is calculated by multiplying 4,000 euros per man by the number of employees and former employees in a specific company. Since it's been expelled, it's not relevant now. I must say, I agree with you that NIS is worth more than 4 billion euros. My proposal to the government will be that the initial price, if a decision on the privatisation of 51% of NIS capital is made, will be two billion euros by 51%, which means that the initial price is so much that it is a qualification, and then, in the public auction process, all those who pass the qualification and offer this minimum price can report that this price is rising, as in the case of the "Mobtel 063" and then the market will be determined and we will see what the real market price of NIS is. I would like to take the opportunity, as a representative of the Government, to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in line with the provisions of Article 143(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have decided to withdraw from the procedure in the National Assembly the following draft laws: the draft law on the budgetary system, delivered to the National Assembly, act 05 No 011-7158/2007-3, since 21 November 2007. Then, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2007; the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, submitted to the National Assembly on 30 November 2007 and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. The government's assessment is that changes submitted to these legislative proposals could not be discussed in quality time. For this reason, the government decided at today’s session to withdraw these laws from the congregation procedure. This notification will be officially distributed to all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15040	The word is made by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing that a large number of MPs are involved in this debate, but it is not good that Minister Dinkic appears here in a slow manner and remains very short in this room. In fact, I think it is very important to clarify this bill to the end, in order to make it clear to the MPs, or to make it clear to them, but also to the citizens who are really clear to this end. There is an impression that the proposed law is not clear to a large number of MPs present in the hall, and I think the proposer is not clear enough and that the proposaler did not explain it well enough and wrote it, so there are likely to be major problems in the application of this law. I want to say what I once said a few days ago here, that what is now being offered to the citizens of Serbia in terms of free actions from the sale of certain public enterprises is actually just crumbs for the poor. After a rich table, after which only the chosen and privileged sat, and when they finished their work and filled their stomachs, now these crumbs remained poor, so that the poor's eyes were covered. This is just throwing dust into people's eyes and some promise that some of this privatisation in Serbia, which, by the way, is also the biggest crime against Serbian citizens who have been committed over the past few years, will get something based on privatisation in Serbia. In fact, privatisation itself is a major injustice towards the citizens of Serbia. This law further deepens this injustice. This law, which is before us and which we are discussing both today and the previous days, is in collegiate with the very Law on Privatisation. I would like the minister to listen to me and try to answer me, I may not be right, but the Law on Privatisation, which was adopted in 2001 and for which privatisation in Serbia lasts for a full 6 years, predicts that from those companies sold in the tender, one part of the capital - 15%, if I remember correctly, is set aside and deposited in so-called. The privatisation register and that the capital, through actions, is divided into citizens of Serbia after the privatisation process has expired who have received nothing from privatisation. Even the Privatisation Act has been defined to do so within two years of the completion of the privatisation process. The minister's gone again, so we're going to run out of answers. I don't understand why this is going into this if the final debate on the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Privatisation Act is just yesterday extended for another year, and we're already starting with a free suit of action. The intention here is obvious, we must underline that, although it has been said several times, the proposal to go before the citizens of Serbia at this moment with this proposal, in order to get some vote in these upcoming elections, means that the candidate of the ruling coalition would also get a vote under one of these laws. It was not possible to get into this until the privatisation process was completed and until we knew what we had in the Privatization Register. I would like Minister Dinkic, although he leaves, to tell us how many companies are privatised through the tender and how much capital has been deposited so far, or registered in this register, which is what we now have, and how much will each citizen of Serbia get from this register? What I understand, and what I want to pass on to the citizens of Serbia, is that this law proposes that Serbian citizens be given, I say this on purpose - share a part of the funds in monetary form, means in money, from the sale of shares already deposited in this register, and that of those public, state-owned enterprises, which we have yet to sell, that they will be shared with actions. So, the citizens will get two ways. The first form is cash, where money will be shared from the sale of shares that are in the privatisation register, and the second part is the one in the papers, in shares from enterprises that have not yet been sold. I am interested and I would like to hear it here, which is what we have in this register, which is the nominal value, if we recalculate by the value of the actions paid for the sale of these companies, and how much would it be, provided that we have four million citizens in Serbia who have not achieved this right, at this point each citizen of Serbia would get in cash? If it is to trust Mr. Branko Pavlovic, who was the director of the Privatisation Agency at the time of the previous government, when Minister Dinkic was the finance minister. What happened between them in the meantime, I don't know. Why relations are disturbed, I don't care, but by believing his report and his statements, at this point, from those actions deposited in the privatisation register, every citizen of Serbia would get 40 euros each. Please, this is humiliating for every citizen of Serbia - 40 euros, and instead, tycoons from this government and from all governments since 2000, who have taken millions and billions of euros from the capital that Serbia has had. The following question, which is also important here and I would like to point out, says in Article 12 of this proposal: "The action fund, which has the obligation to sell these actions from the register, can trust them with domestic and foreign specialised financial organisations or brokerage companies." Then he says in Article 16 that the funds achieved by the sale will be shared to citizens after deduction of the cost of sales, and sales costs will be prescribed by the competent minister. With all this humiliation towards the citizens of Serbia, now a good deal of the funds will be spent, i.e. someone getting on the basis of the sale of these shares. So the state can't sell it on its own, but the job will go to someone else, someone close to the government, to some tycoon of yours that's gonna make them rich. Also, the question that remains open here is -- at what cost will the shares in this register be sold. In Article 12, it says - the price per action at which the action fund can not be less than the price per share paid by the buyer of capital based on privatisation. Who can guarantee that price? I don't understand how the law can prescribe that. If it's already going to market, then it's not possible to prescrib the price at which it's to be sold. That'll regulate the market. What if we don't get that price? This is again the law of Article 17, provided that that price is not realised on the market, such a company, which is involved, has an obligation to, within 180 days, in accordance with the law governing the market of securities of value, ensure that part of the capital of that company registered in the register is divided into the number of shares with voting rights, etc. So, then we're going to rewrite these actions and share them with all the citizens who have the right. Why don't we do it now? Why do we make a double deal if we don't have to and if we already share one share of public enterprises, why do we not share what's registered in the register in the form of actions, but rather humiliate the citizens, to share some 40-euro cash, what it's worth at the time of sale. Also, what remains as an open question -- what about companies that have already been auctioned, employees have already been registered there and registered as owners of some actions, never made a dividend based on these actions, meanwhile contracts have been broken because of various problems. They're the formal owners of these actions. These actions do not exist, nor do they benefit from it. What's gonna happen to them? Why and do they have rights? From this proposal, I concluded that they do not have the right to appear as holders of this right to free action, and what and how will some right in the privatisation process in Serbia, where is justice for them? Where are the rights for employees of restructured enterprises that go bankrupt, that are liquidated? The Privatisation Act says they will receive part of the fee in cash after the sale of enterprises after the liquidation and bankruptcy. Please, they get some money, if they get any money, only after all the other costs of the liquidation process, or bankruptcy, which means they won't get anything, because after all these costs, or the settlement of those costs, there's nothing left. It's another new injustice. A few days ago, I was talking about the Uzic Rocket. You have an example of Rocket and Printshops September and other companies, where privatisation was made at one point, a contract broke, companies failed and now employees have papers, have some nominal right, never achieved any dividend on that basis, and now they can't be carriers of this right, this law deprives them of it. What's gonna happen to them? Will they ever get anything from privatisation in Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, there are many questions that this proposal has opened, to which there is no answer. Obviously, it's all about electoral purposes, to win a vote for its candidate, but definitely there remains a great injustice for Serbian citizens who have for decades acquired assets that are now so easily available. In the end, I would tell Serbian citizens not to look forward too much to what is reportedly being offered by this law, because since 2000 they have paid all of this multiplely through energy and electricity prices, but also municipal costs and other costs of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15042	I thank the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic. You have three minutes, Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15043	Thank you, Chairman. Since the minister is there, a replica of the minister's statement, a replica of the government's position. The point is that seven or eight days ago, during the debate on this bill in principle, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, on two occasions, was decided and made it clear that refugees have the right and that the right to do so. I have replicated, as well as several MPs of the SRS, and it has been said again, the formal deficit, since officially there is no possibility in this proposal of achieving that right, it has been said to be resolved formally. I must point out, since we heard from Minister Dinkic that refugees will not be able to achieve this right, in international law. Since in the 1990s we entered into the process of turning social property into other forms of property and that in 1991, in the Federal Assembly the Act on Conversion guaranteeing the right of all citizens of the SFRY, the right to a certain kind of cash compensation or to action or a form of cash compensation. Of all the former Yugoslav states, an agreement on succession was signed in 2001, which speaks in Section G on private property and acquired rights, clearly defined the category - acquired rights, which included the right to cash compensation. It's an international law act. Since it is an international legal act, since the agreement was ratified in the Federal Assembly in 2003, it is now an integral part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. He guarantees refugees the right. This law cannot deny that right. He is an international legal act and as such cannot be bid on this law. I call on the minister to see again in his ministry and in the government, you cannot deny what guarantees you international law. The refugees have the right to cash compensation, to free share shares, you can't deny it to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15044	I thank the People's Messenger, Milorad Buhi. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic, then MP Jorgenka Tabakovic, also according to the Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15045	Dear Mr. Chairman, I failed to report in time after the reply, which I thank Mr. Dinkic for, and I am happy with the answer, but I did not get an answer to one question and I again ask Mr. Dinkic and Vlad. I agree with this legal observation brought out by Mr. Buha. Let's not deny people the right, it's not that much money. Why am I saying that? The state here is interested that as little as possible, because what it does not share with citizens who have the right to do so goes directly to the state. Don't let that arbitration in the law be at the expense of the citizens. Please, let's think about it, there is time, come on, if you can't finish what Mr. Buha is looking for, at least let everyone who has applied for citizenship conclude with the date of the law's entry into force, and the MUP, meanwhile, allows them to register with Serbian citizens, exercise the right under this law. The state will not fail or improve for that kind of money. In order for the state to move forward we have to work harder, we have to have a better political elite. I don't want to talk about individual political projects. I don't want to talk about certain ideological economies. Please, it's very simple, so if you're well-intentioned, there's a solution. By the day of entry into force, who applied for citizenship, has been granted citizenship by the Serbian state, is listed in the citizens' book, and therefore has the right to be on the voter's list. Let's not deny those rights to people. One more thing to tell you, I don't know what the opposition colleagues think, let them say their position, I call on them. It is pointless for us to participate in this work, even if the minister is here. There's no interest in this story. If the government can't understand this kind of endeavor, we simply don't deny people the rights they've been guaranteed. Why, people, we're sitting here tonight, so the government can withdraw five laws, because we haven't done anything all summer to discuss tomorrow whether Vela will do something or not, as agreed on by the ruling coalition, that is. Will he be a candidate or won't he be a candidate, if we pass the laws and create conditions to go to the elections? Well, we're not serious. Neither the people are mad nor the messengers are mad, nor the journalists are mad. What are you constantly asking the opposition MPs to meet what is agreed under the ruling coalition? We need every step of the way to plant your leg and be a control mechanism, not to cover what you can't arrange between yourselves, because you have more centers, and it looks like more governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15046	I thank MP Dusan Bajatovic. The words of the Rules of Procedure were sought by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15047	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Dear colleagues, respected citizens, I use the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure to announce my party's position on further discussions on this law. I will raise one general suspicion, with the belief that it will come true, unfortunately. The story of registering the right to free action will turn, dear citizens, into privatising public enterprises, such as Article 31 and Article 19, not skilled enough for Serbian radicals, through this law. Article 31 states that if there are no other laws that regulate it, privatisation will be carried out in accordance with this law. Article 19 says, although it is called as chapter - the division of free shares, it is actually a change in ownership structure, in the sense that the company is private property. But what is devastating is an explanation for refusing the last amendment to this law, which Martinovic submitted, where the government says - we do this this way because we do not have a privatisation strategy for the public sector. He literally says that the government, as a legislator of the law, has not built a privatisation strategy for all public enterprises, so it is necessary to leave the possibility that, depending on the strategy, regulations are supposed to be implemented in which citizens will exercise their right. Why do I insist on this as the conclusion of this law? If the Government needs the Assembly in support of a certain law to consider and adopt it, it does so, respected citizens, to spend hours writing amendments, in principle to discuss it, and when the time comes to discuss in particular, the Government withdraws the Budgetary System Act and three other laws that are important for the revenue side of the budget, which will be voted on tomorrow. I'm not asking the government, I know you're making an account without the innkeepers, whether the profit tax laws, which are downsized, the income tax of the citizens, and this last law on the Republic's taxes, are important for the figures and the incomes, that is, the expenditure we've already discussed with the budget. You can have anything. Will the citizens suffer it, that's the question. For the SRS, the further debate on amendments under this law is groundless. We will from this moment on complete our work under this law. I call on the citizens of Serbia to turn the first RTS programme at 21 o'clock and listen to what it has to say, about a little better future and more serious times, Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, for whom we are all hearty.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15048	I would like to thank MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The word is Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15049	Dear colleagues of the SRS, we've had patience for you, you have for us. Our amendments will only be discussed by another representative, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic. After that, we'll end up working on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15050	The 23rd amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. No one's answering for a word. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Alexander Jerkov and Alexander Marton. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. No one's answering for a word. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15051	Thank you very much, Mr. Grouchy. That, Mr. Mrkonjic, is for the public, otherwise, for the socialists, that's our friend Mrkonjic. I know that his entire working life has been characteristic of Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that he is an effective man. Allow me, Mr. Grouchy, to be effective myself, by explaining six amendments in the same presentation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are entering the final debate on the law on the right to free action and fines. Of course, the package, along with the amendment and supplemental package of the Privatisation Act, has caused great public attention in recent days, so that citizens have had the opportunity to see and what is proposed for the changes and what each party requires to change in this regard. As for the SPS, the SPS agreed with the Independent Union of Serbia has tabled all amendments to which the Union had objections when it comes to the two laws. When it comes to the law on the right to free action, Article 23, which has now become a key member, speaks of the rights of employees and former employees in public enterprises, those six here that are listed: EPS, NIS, JAT, Telekom, Galenika and Belgrade Airport. The greatest struggle was being fought around that member, as the contents of that member also result from the next members. Before I go to this argument, I'm asking you for an answer, Mr. Minister. The other day, about ten days ago, when we settled here with Mr. Djelic about privatising public enterprises, Mr. Djelic then told the speaker that the way the NIS privatisation will be regulated by the law that will be in this assembly. A moment ago, you said you were going to propose a 51 percent privatisation to the government. Before that, I've been telling the SPS's position that all strategic public enterprises have to remain state-owned 51%. Please answer later whether Mr. Djelic said it well. I remind you there's a NIS law that hasn't been abolished so far, or what you said is not going with each other. For the simple reason, if this is your proposal to be an integral part of the law, which will enter the congregation procedure, then we will have time to wage war on it. When it comes to Article 23, the original version of the bill offered by the Government meant that the right to free action, i.e. public enterprises' actions, had employees and former employees in these companies far more selective than now. The bonus category is then introduced, i.e. the payment of cash fees. I have to say briefly, therefore, just to explain how vain the government is and how many unions were right, and this is about the next one. The Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia has exerted severe pressure to amend Article 23 to abolish bonus payments, to remain only the right to action. The SPS, backed by the union, submitted an amendment on December 12th to the member. Later, he made a similar amendment and G17 plus that the government itself would make an amendment to the same content under its own law on 13 December. What's the point of things? The bottom line is that the government under the pressure of the union has made a change compared to the original intended version. As far as unions are concerned, trade unions are good, that's the way to fight for workers' rights, and we support them in that. As far as the government is concerned, I mean, and then I said when Mr Djelic was, as vain as the government is, she's so vain that she actually contributes to the extension of the debate on amendments to the laws. Here's an example. The amendment to Article 23, two SPS MPs submitted, namely Rajko Baralić, Milisav Petronijevic, and then Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, to Article 23 and Article 24. Milisav Petronijevic on Article 25, Miletic Mihajlovic on Article 26 and not to count further, our friend Dule Bajatovic just talked about it. Six amendments here are on the agenda to discuss, in exactly the same text as the government's amendment. What's going on? Something unremembered is happening in this assembly, that the government does not accept the amendment in the same text as it suggested. Look how vain it is, and otherwise business is not good, nor is it possible. The government could have said - we accept the amendment because it's identical with the government. And so be it for you, we don't care what amendment is to be accepted, our or Vladin, it's important for us to achieve what is written in that law. But what's the consequence? The consequence is that we now need to hold a debate on six members, instead of the government saying just -- we accept because it's the same text and it becomes an integral part of the law. The main reason for my report here was, as vain as the government today, it cannot contribute to better work or to the Assembly or to better citizens of Serbia. What has the government introduced? She introduced similar to the submission of amendments and unsuitable. I guess we're the ones who aren't fit. The G17 plus has withdrawn its amendments immediately and I understand that because it is an integral part of the ruling coalition, but I don't understand, Mr. Minister, there's no reason for the government to be afraid, because it doesn't cost anything, it doesn't hurt, it simply accepts the amendment, especially if it's identical to the government and if it's filed before the government accepts the pressure of the union. I say it again -- bravo unions. To keep from taking time on this, there's no need to explain these six members, because they're already an integral part of the government's proposal. I just wanted to point out this fact. I want an explanation when it comes to Article 26, because it's something like that. I've been asking questions today and now I want to, Mr. Minister, it's just not enough here and it matters whether something is adopted or not, but to clarify itself for the citizens of Serbia. Believe me, the phones are ringing and the letters are coming. They ask people specifically, article 23 predicted the possibility that former employees, and pensioners, and those who moved to other firms to get shares, but Article 26 already limits such that the privatisation process began. Here's a concrete question, I don't know, you weren't today, Mr. Minister, when I asked the question, so I could take the opportunity. When you were restructured, you were in the government when the decision was made. Three companies were singled out: "Colabara Metal", "Colabara Builder" and "Colubara Inversal". What was the goal? To single out the government's jurisdiction, to prepare a privatisation procedure for these companies. People rightly ask the question, even I think that "Colabara Metal" still remains the daughter of the Public Enterprise "Colubrera", the entire working century has been spent in the Public Enterprise "Collabara", now in these companies and whether people have the right to action of the Public Enterprise, of course, compared to the number of years of internships they have spent in it. This is a very specific question and people expect a concrete answer. A similar situation, here's a letter, Mr. Minister, it's a company called "Telus", an economic society, a 100% company owned by Telekom Srbija. What was the point? To free Telekom Serbia and PTT Serbia from secondary actions, so they have established a special company from their own employees, their employees, the service company, physical and technical security, etc., it is about 1,750 workers, still owned by PTT Serbia and Telekom. People ask specifically, will they be uploaded by that 26th member and are they entitled to action like all of Serbia's PTT workers? A whole series of these examples, I've singled out these two, because we've been talking for a couple of days, instructions for examples, etc. We hereby conclude our presentation regarding the law on the right to free action. I want to inform the citizens of Serbia once again that all the objections we have made to both laws, we have had them in co-operation with the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, we consider them as natural allies, because they are the ones who need to care about the rights of employees and the protection of employees, and that is our political programme. Neither we wanted to be a union nor we asked the union to be an SPS, but we wanted as many as possible to multiply in the protection of workers' interests, because they are still the biggest losers in this process of transforming property, capital. When it comes to the right to free action, we also pointed out the injustice of sharing, we pointed to the unfairness of the conditions that are necessary, we also pointed out that citizens have to get a clear answer, a time limit when they will get money from this, when it comes to cash compensation from the privatisation register. We also pointed out that you owe the citizens of Serbia the answer to the question of the comment of Article 9a of the Law on Public Enterprises, and it is abolished by this law. Which is why the second part of the rest of the amount paid to all employees and former employees in enterprises also does not join the share of free citizens' shares, as this allows the current member of the 9a Law on Public Enterprises. So we did everything to convince you and to convince you that this imagined free division of actions is not fair enough, not sufficiently designed and that you are responsible for how it will end up. Thank you very much. We're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15052	I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronivic. Just five more minutes of patience, I have to read all of this. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government submitted to the title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government submitted to the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The amendment has been withdrawn. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment has been withdrawn. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on Article 26 of the amendment, is the Privatisation Committee. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted to the 27th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 29th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vidoje Jovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Bajatovic and Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Privatisation Committee, tabled an amendment proposing that a new section and Article 31a be added to Chapter VII. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 32 of the amendment, was submitted by the Privatisation Committee. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular, does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development want the final word? Yeah. Here you go. You wanted so much, please listen to Mr Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15053	I'll be brief. I want to thank the MPs for their constructive discussion. Also, I would like to thank all the representative unions, the Independent, the Independent, the Confederation of Unions, for their constructive work in making this law. I think that if the Serbian Parliament adopts it tomorrow, this law will help to do two things. On the one hand, to make at least some kind of social justice, that those people who haven't got the action so far get the right to free action. On the other hand, to motivate all Serbian citizens to control the future work of these public enterprises. When they become shareholders, they will have much more motive to participate in the decision-making of these public enterprises, when they go out on the market, there will be much more information available to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15054	I thank Master Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development and his associates. Here's a word from the People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15055	The moment the Government controls two agencies that manage the largest capital of banks and businesses, the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Privatisation Agency, at the moment we will believe you in an honest intention to provide citizens with the opportunity to control public enterprises that you cannot control. But first, you secure through the budget, through the laws you've withdrawn, to control these two agencies, and I believe that everything you've put forward about this will really be respected and applied when you've passed the new laws here for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-25-0.u15056	I would like to thank Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic, the MP of the SRS. I conclude the review of the draft law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you. Today is over. Thank you. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
