ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-24-0.u11720	Mr. President, I'd like some patience. I would like to point out to you a permanent violation of at least five provisions of our Rules of Procedure, to give you immediate indication of our conduct during today's session and to give you reasons for this behavior so that you may have time to prepare yourself. In addition to all violations of the dignity of the National Assembly, which has been committed since this assembly was under the control of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and President Boris Tadic, you have introduced a procedure for us to schedule sessions beyond the provisions of Article 84. The Rules of Procedure, no days, no hours and places where the session will be held, but you tell us, "The session will be held in the follow-up of a session." This is not a business provision, because the Rules of Procedure are extremely clear in this regard. So, you, under Article 84, are obliged to determine the day, hour and place, and not descriptively when the session will begin. According to Article 85, the working hours are Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, according to item 4, if you really want to extend after 18.00 hours or to work on an unworkable day, you have to give us extremely valid reasons for that. You don't feel like working out of the O.R.? Yes, we're not working today, and if you were normal, you wouldn't be working today either. In accordance with Article 138. – the bill cannot be included in the agenda within 15 days or longer than 60 days. Even within 15 days no relief is provided, and for a 60-day period it is foreseen to explain why a proposal, prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, did not enter the agenda. That is why you, in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all the draft laws, and the two laws that you want to do this afternoon, when we are not working, and they arrived from the government on November 7th, with a proposal to be followed by an emergency procedure, are scheduled for a session within eight days, and I am still not counting on you, or when a session ends. You're the session you want to start this afternoon, scheduled for November 15th, for another day and for another hour you didn't schedule it. What happens eight days after that session? The government, which has said that two laws must be passed by an urgent procedure, because there will be adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations... Excuse me, can I take a little longer? I can, only if you have patience. (President: here you go, Mr. Nikolic. ) Therefore, the Government informs us that it has sent us seven acts with an emergency procedure proposal and proposes that these drafts of the law be considered by regular procedure. You are not interested in why the government has deceived us that there will be harmful consequences, since nothing has happened and nothing harmful has ever happened if the law is not considered by an emergency procedure. Mr. President, I'm just pointing out that we don't want to be slaves here to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I could also refer to the motion to merge the debate over those two points of the agenda. You can always say they're connected. Then you could also the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Law on Government, as well as unite the debate, because they are interlinked. While there are no elected MPs, there is no elected government. This is the only reason why the Law on the election of the President of the Republic and the Act on the function of the President of the Republic can be connected. Only mentioning the President of the Republic, but here's what I'm not going to warn you about right now. I warn you that we are not ready to take part in this afternoon's debate on these two draft laws since the session is regularly scheduled, but we are ready to be at that session and continue the story of yesterday, you interrupted us, it was our gentlemen's agreement, there is much left to ask the Government, there is much we have to object to about the Rules of Procedure. So, if you decide to start a new unscheduled session this afternoon, we'll decide to resume yesterday's closed session. If you're ready for that, go ahead. I think you're on time. We have a sad event today, we'll be out of the O.R. for a while, but don't be afraid, we all arrive or at least leave those who will maintain a nice working atmosphere until we get back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-24-0.u11721	Thank you. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT, which the President of the Republic of Serbia has tabled since the National Assembly carried out the search and before we move to a decision, I remind you of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia relating to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, as well as the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which relate to the decision on the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. According to Article 172, paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia elects five Constitutional Court judges among the 10 candidates proposed by the President of the Republic. According to Article 172, paragraph 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with each of the proposed lists of candidates, one of the elected candidates must be from the territory of autonomous provinces. In accordance with Article 178(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on the election of the Constitutional Court judges, decides individually, by a secret vote, unless it decides to make the vote public. I suggest that the National Assembly make the choice of the Constitutional Court judges by public vote, using an electronic voting system. I am putting on the motion that the choice of the Constitutional Court judges be made by public vote, using an electronic voting system. For 131 against 6, it was not 13 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly decided that the choice of Constitutional Court judges should be made by a public vote, using an electronic voting system. We move to a public vote, using an electronic voting system. I am voting on the proposal by the president of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Nenad Trifunovic, deputy district attorney in Kosovo Mitrovica, to judge the Constitutional Court. For two, against 37, three abstentions, 149, of the 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Nenad Trifunovic to judge the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Predrag Cetkovic, assistant director of the Directorate for Legal and General Affairs "DDOR Novi Sad". For 140, against 53, with three abstentions, they did not vote four out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Predrag Cetkovic as the Constitutional Court judge. I am voting on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Bogoljub Milosavljevic, professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Union. Against 56, with three abstentions, they did not vote 142 out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not select Bogoljub Milosavljevic as judge of the Constitutional Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Bosa Nenadic, judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, as judge of the Constitutional Court. For 131 versus 56, the three abstentions did not vote 11 out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly has chosen Bosa Nenadic as judge of the Constitutional Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Milan Vlatkovic, senior adviser at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, as the judge of the Constitutional Court. Against five, with five abstentions, 54, did not vote 142 out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Milan Vlatkovic to judge the Constitutional Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Branko Curchi, judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, as judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Against 57, with three abstentions, he did not vote 141, of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Branko Curchia to judge the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the proposal by the president of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Radmila Vasic, professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade as the judge of the Constitutional Court. Against 56, with three abstentions, 142 of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not elect Radmila Vasic to judge the Constitutional Court. I am voting on the proposal by the president of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Dragisa Slepcevic, the Supreme Court judge of Serbia, as the Constitutional Court judge. For 141, against 56, with three abstentions, two of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has elected Dragisa Slepčević as judge of the Constitutional Court. I would like to vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Stanka Milanovic, vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor, as judge of the Constitutional Court. For 141, against 57, with three abstentions, two of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has elected Stanko Milanovic as the Constitutional Court judge. I am voting on the proposal by the president of the Republic of Serbia to elect candidate Marija Draskic, professor at the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, to judge the Constitutional Court. For 131 against 54, the abstention of three, did not vote 16 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly has elected Maria Draskovic to judge the Constitutional Court. I congratulate the elected judges of the Constitutional Court on their election and wish them success in their work. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CANDATE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal for a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic, with a correction from 9 November 2007, we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to place Oliver Vukic, professor of the Faculty of Law at the University of Belgrade, on the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic. For 143 against 58, they did not vote three out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the proposal to put Olivera Vukic, professor of the University of Belgrade Law Faculty, on the candidate list. I would like to put the motion on the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic to place Vesna Ilic-Prelic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education. For 145, against 57, two of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted the proposal to put Vesna Ilic-Prelic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education on the candidate list. I am putting the motion to put Mr. Jadranka Injac, Judge of the Supreme Court, on the list of candidates for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic. For 144 against 57, they did not vote 2, of 203 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted the proposal to place Mr. Jadranka Injac, the Supreme Court judge, on the candidate list. I would like to put the motion on the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic to place Zejnapa Kavrajic, judge of the District Court in Novi Pazar. For 139, against 61, abstention one, two of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the proposal to put Zejnapa Kavrajic, judge of the District Court in Novi Pazar, on the candidate list. I would like to put the motion on the list of candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges appointed by the President of the Republic to be appointed by Professor Agnes Cartagodri, the extraordinary professor of the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad. For 143 against 55, five of 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted the proposal to put Professor Agnes Cartagodri, professor of law school at the University of Novi Sad on the candidate list. I am voting on the proposal to place Professor Vladan Kutlesic, professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade and Megatrend of the University of Belgrade, on the list of candidates for Constitutional Court judges appointed by the President of the Republic. For 141 versus 59, three of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the proposal to place Professor Vladan Kutlesic, professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade and Megatrend of the University of Belgrade on the candidate list. I would like to put the motion on the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic to place Katarina Manojlovic, judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For 145, against 53, six of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the proposal to place Katarina Manojlovic, judge of Serbia's Supreme Court, on the candidate list. I would like to put the motion on the list of candidate judges for the Constitutional Court appointed by the President of the Republic to place Mihailo Rulic, judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. For 145, against 51, did not vote 7, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the proposal to put Mihailo Rulic, judge of Serbia's Supreme Court, on the candidate list. I am putting the motion to put Dr Dragan M. Stojanovic, professor of the Faculty of Law at the University of Nis, on the list of candidates for Constitutional Court judges appointed by the President of the Republic. For 144 against 55, two of the 201 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the proposal to put Dr Dragan M. Stojanovic, professor of the Faculty of Law at Nis University, on the candidate list. I am voting on the proposal to place Dusko Celic, an associate at the Faculty of Law at the Kosovo Mitrovica University of Pristina, on the list of candidates for the Constitutional Court Judges appointed by the President of the Republic. For 142, against 51, it did not vote 7, out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the proposal to put Dusko Celic, an associate at the Faculty of Law in Kosovo Mitrovica, University of Pristina, on the candidate list. I find that in this way the National Assembly has established a list of candidates for the Constitutional Court to be appointed by the President of the Republic. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF AZIL After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the asylum bill on vote, in principle. For 139, there was no vote of 40, out of 179 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 127, 22 of the 193 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 177, against four, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 195 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 175, against three, 17 of the 195 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 125, they did not vote 22 out of 195 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 126, there was no vote of 23, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 124, 24 of 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 126, 25 of the 196 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 10 of the same amendment, MP Slavko Jerkovic and MP Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 126, it was not 13 out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. During the review of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted this amendment. The Defence and Security Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 180, a abstentioned one, was not voted 16 out of 197 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 125, the vote was not 23, out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 173, against two, he did not vote 21 out of 196 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 128, there was no vote of 20, of 196 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 125, there was no vote of 23, out of 193 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 124, he did not vote 21, out of 191 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 177, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 60 out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by Miletic Mihajlovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 127, 25 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 43, against 128, did not vote 18 out of 189 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In four, against 125, there were no votes of 20, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 126, 19 of the 187 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 127, it did not vote 14, out of 185 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Defence and Security has submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. During the examination of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 168, against two, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 183 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Vukelic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 128, 17 of the 184 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 34th Amendment was submitted by Dragoljub Anastasovski. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 124, they did not vote 22, out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 123, 28 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Zečević. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 129, 20 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 39th amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 126, 22 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 41st Amendment. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 125, it did not vote 23, out of 187 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 127, it did not vote 19 out of 186 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 122, 25 of the 186 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. He submitted to Article 58 of the amendment Nebojsa Stefanovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 126, 22 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Skrbic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 125, 22 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 64th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 125, it did not vote 23, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zdravko Topalovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 126, 25 of the 188 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on a vote for the asylum bill, in general. For 149, 9 of the 158 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for an asylum law. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (proposers Nada Kolundžija and Milos Aligrudić, president of the DS and DSS-NS parliamentary groups) As the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposals for decisions, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party parliamentary group. For 190, of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted this motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. For 185, it did not vote 7. Of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted this motion for a decision. Since we have agreed on the motions for amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask if you agree to the adopted proposals for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", as a legally-technically united act – a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Nine out of the 191 people's MPs. The National Assembly unanimously adopted this proposal. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Ivan Andric, at a session on 20 November 2007, at 10.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 11, against 124, two abstentions, 52 of the 189 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly decided that no injured member of the Rules of Procedure had been injured. National MP Ivan Andric, at a session on 20 November 2007, at 10.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 27 and 225. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 11, v. 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 52, out of 188 MPs. The National Assembly decided that those members of the Rules of Procedure were not injured. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2007. We'll continue our work after a 15-minute break. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the meeting. (The session is over at 13.00 hours)
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-24-0.u11722	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BITE FOURTH SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION OF THE 24th of November 2007 (The first day of work) (The session began at 13.45 p.m. The chairman is Oliver Dulic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-24-0.u11723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 167 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions and the establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Rajko Baralic. You were presented with records from the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25, 26, 29, 30, 31 October and 5 November 2007 and the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 5, 6 and 7 November 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the First and Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2007. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's office has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of these sessions. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25, 26, 29, 30, 31 October and 5 November 2007. (You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure as soon as the procedural things are done. Please calm down. ) Three out of 135 MPs did not vote for 132. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25, 26, 29, 30, 31 October and 5 November 2007. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 5, 6 and 7 November 2007. For 130, it did not vote five out of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 5, 6 and 7 November 2007. The sitting session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, on the extension of the agenda and on the merger of discussions. Eleven MPs of the LDP parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the abuses of Delta from Belgrade, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 7 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. 12 of the 135 MPs did not vote against 123. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the international anti-doping convention in sport, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote seven out of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Milorad Belic, Dusan Mrvos, Zorica Kovacevic, Slobodana Mladenovic, Dejan Perjanic, Mladen Grujic, Vladan Vukicevic and Dejan Rajcic proposed that the draft law on the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija be put on the agenda of the National Assembly on 13 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 14, against 112, 10 of the 136 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Bojan Milovanovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. In five, against 115, nine out of 129 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. I find that 117 MPs are present in the O.R. and we have no quorum. Since there's no voting quorum, I'm setting a 30-minute break. [[After break – 14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Nineteen MPs of the G17 Plus Group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by the execution of criminal acts, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 21 November 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 30, against 96, five of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. On the basis of Article 143(2), Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly decide to withdraw item 3 from the agenda – Parliament issues and request information and explanations on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, they did not vote four out of 131 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. National MP Rajko Baralic suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point – the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2007. Does MP Rajko Baralic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For three, against 126, three of the 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Rajko Baralic suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point – the amendment and addition laws of the Law on Courts and districts and public prosecutors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 May 2007. Does MP Rajko Baralic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For two, against 127, they did not vote three out of 132 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Sixteen MPs of the SPS parliamentary group proposed to extend the agenda to a new point – the amendment law and amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2007. Does National MP Zarko Obradovic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For two, against 127, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Rajko Baralic suggested that the agenda be extended to a new point – the draft law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection and Social Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 October 2007. Does MP Rajko Baralic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For three, against 126, they did not vote four out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Sixteen MPs of the SPS group proposed that the agenda be extended to a new point – the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2007. Does National MP Ivica Dacic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For six, against 123, seven out of 136 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Sixteen MPs of the SPS group proposed that the agenda be extended to a new point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Radio Diffusion Act, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2007. Does National MP Ivica Dacic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For seven, against 126, three of the 136 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. On the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 140(2), the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the proposal for a law on the President of the Republic and a bill on elections for the President of the Republic. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 130, against five, he did not vote one out of 136 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, for extending the agenda and for bringing the debate together, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Five out of 136 MPs voted for 131. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 as a whole. I ask the National Assembly's service to prepare a consolidated text of the session's agenda and to hand it over to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on the President of the Republic and 2. Proposal for a Law on Elections for the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work on Monday, 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
