ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 150 Members of Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Nenad Bogdanovic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session for Tuesday, 11 September 2007, so within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for acts on the agenda, which were set up by 128 MPs in a request for an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which was convened at the request of 128 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the Change and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe - CEFTA 2006, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tobacco law, 4. Proposal for a law confirming Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, 5. Proposal for a Law on travel documents, 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events, 7. Election of the President, Vice President and members of the State Audit Institution Council, from the List submitted by the Finance Committee, 8. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, 9. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 140(2) and Article 149a of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint uniform principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Amendment and Accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe - CEFTA 2006 and on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the tobacco law. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5033	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, above all, I apologize for my appearance and the contagion of my suit, it's because of the rain. I'll try to take a break, if I'm able to change that. Mr. President of the National Assembly, you have repeatedly violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I express not only the surprise, but also the bitterness of the way the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works, above all, because of the fact that you brutally trample on the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you step on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and, Mr. President of the National Assembly, you step on both your own words and the will of most national MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'll start with your promise. First, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will work full-time during the summer months, because we do not have time to rest, because in front of Serbia great works, great tasks, we have to do and do everything we missed during the previous period. In the end, it turned out that all the ministers, that the entire government was at a grind and a bath, and that of the laws and other general acts necessary for the Assembly to pass was nothing. At the same time, I would like to explain something to the citizens of Serbia, as DOS media, from B92 to all the other corrupters who participated in the business, tried to say that MPs are the culprits of the national assembly of the Republic of Serbia's unhappiness. We have to explain to them that in the opposition we had nothing to do with it, that the SRS MPs, therefore, the largest opposition and largest parties in Serbia, wanted to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, but that the government did not want to schedule any sessions, because bathing and squirming were much more important than the interests of the citizens of this country. I'll remind you of your statement, Mr. President of the National Assembly. You said the last date was when we could start work26. or August 27th. It's 9/11 today. If I didn't make a mistake, I think it's two weeks later. That's how much time the citizens lost. Why did you lose? I am now coming to the essence of the collapse of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which you are so invited to, and you are calling incorrectly, Mr. President of the National Assembly, which I will try to explain to you. I hope you won't see too much B92, RTS and Pink in the future when they explain it. It would be better if you read carefully the Constitutional Law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you would make better conclusions. In the Constitutional Law, in Article 5, on the work of the National Assembly after the government's election, it is very precise, and it can be seen by citizens of Serbia, the work of the National Assembly after the government's election. The article, among other things, says in paragraph 1, "The newly elected composition of the National Assembly during the first session, following the government's election, will comply with the Constitution of laws governing the exercise of citizens' right to information, the issue of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia." I ask you, Mr. President of the National Assembly of Serbia, where is the issue of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia on the agenda today? Why are you breaking and breaking the Constitutional Law? Why aren't we on the agenda today? I know all MPs agree with me right now. I'm asking you, just, what's the problem? Is your policy, force policy, stronger than right? Is the policy of your agreements, i.e. disagreements and disagreements stronger than what is prescribed by the Constitutional Law? We don't have it on the agenda today. It is further said - during the second session. I'm sorry, I'm out of line. We have something else you've broken for today. In paragraph 9 - apply the provisions of the Constitution to the Constitutional Court. This is scandalous, and this is you, Mr. Mamula, you know perfectly well, I'm sure. Paragraph 1 says the election, namely the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, will take place no later than the end of the 1st regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. President of the National Assembly, we are not on the agenda to elect and appoint Judges of the Constitutional Court. This is a country that doesn't have a Constitutional Court. This is a country that doesn't have the most important legal institution. This is a country where you cannot, in the hierarchy of legal acts, see and evaluate the constitutionality of an act. Elemental principles of constitutionality and legality are being violated. What are you suggesting to us today? Joining the debate on the CEFTA agreement and the tobacco law. Why didn't you put travel papers in all this? It's as if the only question is whether and under what conditions will the ruby factory here be able to enter, as one vice president of the government has promised them in time. What difference does it make? What are you guys doing? What's this about? We now want to talk about CEFTI and economic interests that have nothing to do with tobacco alone; see what happens to milk, meat, cookies, strategic products that Serbia in the region produces more than others.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5034	Mr. Wolfie, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I have to interrupt. You had three minutes to talk to the Rules of Procedure. All this time, I've taken a quote. Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5035	I'll be done soon. I see it's funny for DSS representatives. Laugh, I know it's very interesting, because you don't care about what problems we have with exporting our basic products to Bosnia and Herzegovina, even in the territory of Republika Srpska, so you have to throw something about chips or I don't know what, but it's your problem and your thing. Not to mention, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we don't have any of the laws necessary here for what you're talking about, because you're telling us all the time about calling elections, and there are conditions cumulative. There is no, except for the state auditors, nothing on our agenda from what is necessary, nothing about cassation courts, or the military, or about defence, or about the president of the Republic, about local self-government and territorial organization, we will not talk about anything seriously, because the government is not prepared for anything, because there is no consensus between you, because there is irresponsibility and unseriousness. Ending this, I demand of you, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I asked for it exactly four times in the previous term, in the term of office when the president of the National Assembly was Mr. Predrag Markovic, to put the report on the work of the Committee on the so-called Committee of Auditors. 'Energy Mafia', a report adopted by most of the members of the Survey Committee; two members, among other things, and an SRS representative, had a separate opinion. We disagreed with the adopted report by DSS representatives, G17 plus and SPS, so I ask you to put that report on the agenda, because we did not work for nothing, because I see that this mafia, energy, manages Serbia today, because I see that this mafia arrests and fires an honest officer, who fights for the truth and who struggles to prove to the competent state authorities who stole more than they say, only in two tranches, 12m euros, and, according to our calculations, this robbery of Serbia is incomparably bigger. If only half of what he wrote about the "energy Mafia" tabloid or some other leaves is true, then a lot of them must end up behind bars. What did we come up with? I'll show you just some of the basic documents, 40 pages each, contract analysis. Now I ask you, gentlemen of the DS, who you have partly participated in writing this contract analysis, because your colleague, along with me, voted against their report. Your colleague, along with me, said it was the mob, the energy, and now shut up. Now everyone has withdrawn their word, because one of the top mobsters has moved on to your side and today financially supports your party. In this analysis of the contract, in the contract list we have, I am prepared to show it to all the MPs, if you look together, both for EPS and NIS, and on the service processing of the mules, and on the trade in electricity, as well as the time in which the electricity trade was carried out, you will find that the damage to Serbia is more than 50m euros. I ask you -- is it possible to keep quiet about it, Mr. President of the National Assembly, and, if that report is so good, if it's extraordinary, why isn't that report on the agenda? I ask you from the DS -- did you forget the words of Mr. Mihajlovic, your MP, who once told these people that they were mobsters, that they run Serbia in the worst way? I see he's not here today and I see that he's been removed where he's been since Wolf Hamovic and the other mobsters who run Serbia today joined the DS. So, the fight against the mafia, the fight against crime and corruption, the fight against injustice, Mr. President, I expect you to answer these questions, because they are most important to our country. I expect you to explain to us why you are violating the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and everything seems to me, as Toma Nikolic said in today's "Justice" - Russia went and flourished the moment she replaced Boris, that it remains for us, or Serbia, and it is time for him to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5036	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5037	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, according to the calendar of Parliament President Oliver Dulic, today should be August 28th, as Mr Dulic said on one of the DS televisions that he guarantees his honour and his life that the National Assembly session will be held that day. Here, finally, a session was scheduled, with a agenda that could not have been like this, given the obligations that Mr. Alexander Vukic spoke of earlier, obligations under the Constitutional Law, which the National Assembly must not bypass. It is amazing that a group of MPs of the ruling coalition, who signed the motion to hold this session, also ignored the obligations of all MPs in respect of the Constitution and the implementation of the Constitutional Law. Mr Oliver Dulic, in moments of such short arrival between various schools in Serbia, on these TVs and in the media, gave various statements and I am now asking, Mr Dulic, that people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, as set out in Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, answer some of these questions. I suppose, of course, I'm not saying that you'll also answer Mr. Alexander Vukic's questions - who forced you to violate the Constitutional Law, who ordered you to do so, or you, despite your education, did not learn to read and interpret the provisions of the Constitutional Law. You said in one newspaper that on December 31st you'd call the presidential election. In the same team of newspapers, in two or three paragraphs you said -- presidential elections will be held by the end of the year. If you're gonna call them on December 31st, Mr. Dulic, is that 8:00 in the morning, and at 8:00 in the evening, we're gonna hold the election? You further said, when it comes to local elections, because it is probably now some DS calculations, that the problem is that existing electoral laws are in direct contrast with the new constitution and local elections will be called in accordance with the Constitutional Law. So, Mr. Dulic, you have to respect the Constitution and the Constitutional Law no matter what election it is. There are a lot of obligations in this House, and when it comes to presidential elections, that is, one set of laws must be passed so that we can go to these elections at all. Most importantly, Mr. Dulic, I remind you that you are Oliver Dulic only in his house, at his wife's and in the DS's rooms. In any other place, Mr. Dulic, you are the president of the National Assembly and you have no right, 81 SRS MPs do not allow you to do so, in the name of the Assembly, declare that Serbia should join NATO. That, therefore, you can tell your wife and your party friends, and as President of Parliament you must make sure that you can speak only what the National Assembly has decided. No one asked for Oliver Dulic's opinion, but for Parliament's president. So I ask you to answer these questions. And another, in the end, question -- you said almost, these days, that a session of Parliament could not be held, because MPs did not return from their annual vacation. Tell me what MPs didn't come back from their annual vacation, since the MPs of the SRS planned their time according to your promise, first that there would be no rest in the National Assembly, and then, eventually, it would be 15 days? Therefore, we do not allow you to place us in a group of MPs who allegedly could not hold a session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5038	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. President, the reasons for the violation of the constitutional law spoken of by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and my colleague Rade are more than obvious, but in addition to this drastic violation of the Constitutional Law, we, as the National Assembly, are first in the situation that we must violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which bind us, in fact, to the Committee on Defence and Security and the members of that Committee to consider a very important issue, and this is the only committee in the National Assembly that has that obligation, twice a year -- the issue of the work of the MUP and BIA. This way, I am not talking to my colleague Dacic, who, through a set of circumstances, is our agreement and consensus of all parties, has been elected as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, but to you and Minister Jocic and the Director of the Security and Information Agency. This is a very serious matter, if you want to understand, because for the first time the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in a situation that it has been a year and two months and that the Committee has not considered the state of overall security in the country. During the time Mr. Mircic was the chairman of the board, and even during his predecessors, and at the worst time, when the board worked without the participation of the Serbian Radical Party, twice a year we had to have a report on the work of the interior ministry. First, because of the fact that this report for us, for the members of the Committee, as well as for all the MPs, contains the information that is needed, especially now, in the situation in which Serbia is located -- ahead of the new U.S. and other Western forces in the kidnapping of Kosovo and Metohija. The priority is to discuss this, and in an open session, where we are discussing a report from the Ministry of the Interior, and a session of the Security and Information Agency, which we have fought to be public for all MPs and for all members of the media. I must inform you, your fellow MPs, that this report exists. The period until June of this year is covered. The report is very serious, we Serbian radicals have some objections and, of course, we will take them to the Committee's session, but we wonder when this session will be. Now, in passing to the pay phone, I asked Mr. Krasic, who stopped by the door for a moment - what is he waiting for, and he answers - waiting for Jocic to return that jeep to me. It's really serious in that part, too. So there are obligations of the interior ministry and according to the Supreme Court's ruling, when it comes to a jeep owned by the Serbian Radical Party. There are a number of violations of the law by the former interior minister and things we are interested in in the area of public security and in the area concerning the Ministry's analysis of the work on all of the current crime groups, mentioned by Mr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5040	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5041	Where we can ask questions like this, i.e. Mr. Vukic himself should be given the opportunity to ask the Minister of the Interior - if he has any knowledge that he is part of the mafia, or that the key people of the mafia, whom he has dealt with on the Committee of Auditors, are now co-financers of the Democratic Party, still at large, doing and doing what they want. Many other issues are important, but, first of all, those concerning overall security in the country. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, think that in this conference we should discuss the travel documents law, I don't mind, it's the responsibility of the board of directors. If the amendment and addition of the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports will need to be the most difficult thing for us, whether someone, exclaiming a parliament concerning the support of Hague prisoners, such as our president, or those pursued by The Hague tribunal, at sports games, will get five or ten years in prison, then we are an unseriously legislative body. The interior ministry, or the minister, would have to, as much as come tomorrow, because that committee, with the report that we have and which we have read, is on several occasions delayed. It is really very important that we maintain it as soon as possible, so that we can ask all these important questions for the state and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5042	Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Vukovic Jadranko, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5043	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I have reached out to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I received a reply from military minister Dragan Sutanovac and, unsatisfactory with the answer, I want to show you, as well as my predecessors, how the current minister and president of Serbia Boris Tadic violates the Constitution and the law. I asked for information from the defence minister on the introduction of a new designation of rank in the military, which was prescribed and in what procedure. In order not to read you a complete answer, since I will ask you an additional question, the point is that the decision on the sign of belonging to the Serbian Army and the markings of acts was made by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic, on 28 May. 12. 2006. It was published in Official Military List, number 41/06. I ask that I be told of the legal basis by which Boris Tadic is authorised to make this kind of decision, which does not belong to the leadership and command of the military, which he is the only one in charge of. On the other hand, it is noticeable that from Šutanovec and Tadic, compared to the military, many regulations, which fall under the Parliament's legislative activity, as shown in this response addressed to me, since Sutanovac obviously educated his advisory bodies, which he gave authority to which he did not have jurisdiction. That's what the Army Act has to do with the defense to settle. As an MP, I refer this as an additional issue to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which also has in its composition the Legislative Secretariat. I am looking for this because, in accordance with the constitution, it is necessary to regulate the area of defence and the military as soon as possible, so that Serbia's president and defence minister Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac would not usurp and rights that could not possibly belong to them under the law. It is noticeable from their behaviour so far that they, by automatedism, self-initiatedly took over, in relation to the military and the defence, all the powers that the Supreme Defence Council and the Ministry of Defence of the Federal State had, although they were not given the law in power. No wonder, ladies and gentlemen, one is a clinical psychologist, and one is a machine engineer, and you all understand that our army and the defense system began to collapse when gynecologists, psychologists, and so on began to come to our heads. On this occasion, I warn the Serbian government that Dragan Sutanovac, as defence minister, cannot be directly subordinated to Tadic, but to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5044	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5045	Here, I'm done, Mr. President. Tadic is only in charge of the military, and that is when it comes to handling and commanding, and he is not in charge of defending the country, nor of normatively settling those issues, including these issues that he has voluntarily arranged. So, ladies and gentlemen, to know that the organisation of the military, acts and so forth, does not belong to the management and command, so that Mr. Tadic had no right to determine what acts in the Serbian Army would look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5046	Thank you. I would like to put to the vote Hope Kolundzija's proposal for a united debate and ask the MPs to press the corresponding key on the parliamentary unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -96, against - no one, abstentioned - no one voted 97 of the 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal, I have been corrected by the secretary. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Laws on the State of the Republic of Serbia (Principles) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party - one hour, 37 minutes, 12 seconds, Democratic Party - one hour, 16 seconds, 48 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes, 24 seconds, G17 plus - 22 minutes, 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia - 19 minutes, 12 seconds, Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes, 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, List of Sandzak, Roma Serbia Union, Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes, 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does proposal representative Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5047	Dear President, honourable MPs, you have before you an amendment to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in fact the law on amendments to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The law sets out the alignment in the area of citizenship with changes that occurred following Montenegro's state union entry and with the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia. An important law was passed in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, under which a citizen of a Member State was also a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro. In fact, it was complicated citizenship, which no longer exists, after the referendum. The result of these changes is that the previous domestic citizens, Montenegrin citizens who remained to live in Serbia's territory, have become non-citizens. Passing this law would redecorate the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and allow Montenegrin citizens with their registered residence on the territory of Serbia on 3 June 2006 to gain Serbian citizenship without asking for dismissal from Montenegrin citizenship. This would allow Serbia, as a legal follower of the state community, to fulfil its international and legal obligation, which is also its interest, and allow a large number of citizens, around 250,000, to gain citizenship under extenuating conditions. This ensures the equality of all citizens living in Serbia. The concrete papers in the law are as follows: everywhere, it is proposed to delete certain provisions as inadequate, given the absence of the state union and that Montenegrin citizenship is now being treated with foreign citizenship. Provisions from 4 to 13 align with Serbia's international subjectivity, and everywhere it is said "Serbia and Montenegro", are replaced by the words "the Republic of Serbia". In this way, this law allows Montenegrin citizens who did not have a registered residence on Serbia's territory to be admitted to citizenship under the same conditions as the current law provides. So it's not conditioned by the termination of previous citizenship, because, in Article 23 of this law, it allows everyone else to gain citizenship. Finally, the proposed provision of Article 16 allows Montenegrin citizens with residence, with registered residence in Serbia on the day of Serbia's legal succession, means, on June 3, 2006, obtaining citizenship of the Republic of Serbia under reduced conditions, i.e. under the same conditions already laid down in the applicable law for nationals of other republics of the former SFRY. Of course, some amendments have also been proposed by certain political parties. I will certainly look at them, and in the course of the debate, we will decide in particular which amendments we will adopt. It is certain that this bill came a little early; we did not want to intervene on it; we left it to political parties, in fact, to make amendments, to make their proposals, and then, accordingly, to work through the law. So, in advance, I'm telling you that the law will be completed, and that's for sure in terms of Article 23. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5048	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Alexander Vukic. Excuse me, please, Mr. Battice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5049	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think that the amendment and addition of the Law on Citizenship has some positive effects, it is about a new state-law, or constitutional-law situation. That alignment is necessary. Of course, we should remind ourselves that Montenegro did not step forward, but Montenegro, by the will of its citizens, decided to become a sovereign and independent state. It is sad that Serbia's ruling political elite has not given Serbian citizens the opportunity to speak out in what state they want to live in, so, unfortunately, Serbia has become a collaterally sovereign and independent state. No one even mentioned some date for Serbia's new statehood, which is, in fact, the same day that Montenegro became a sovereign state, and by the will of the citizens of Montenegro, it became Serbia. The law has positive effects, because some Montenegrin citizens who have been at the top of state functions in Serbia will finally become citizens of Serbia and are entitled to perform certain public functions in this country. There's a problem with some other things. Of course, it's legal-technical all of this is possible, more or less, it's in line with some international standards, but, again, we need to take care of indirect effects. What is the official Montenegro's position on this issue, what about the principle of reciprocity, will it be respected in the future, is this only politically motivated, is a new electoral body being created for certain political options? Then, it is our turn to explain whether people who, in this way, so far Montenegrin citizens, acquire and citizenship of Serbia, will in the future have dual citizenship, since this statement will not deny Montenegro's citizenship, whether they will also be citizens of Serbia and Montenegro's citizens, whether they will vote according to the elections in both Serbia and Montenegro, or should give up Montenegro's citizenship because of their love for Serbia. We have something that's practical. You'll say -- that comes from some other provisions, some other laws, but here's a concrete question. Will future citizens of Serbia, who otherwise have the citizenship of Montenegro, report their assets and pay taxes in the state of Serbia? We have some of the leading tycoons in this country, the tycoon of the ruling coalition, which are, for example, registered in Kotor, like Vojin Lazarevic, there do not pay any taxes, they acquire capital and property. What will be their obligations tomorrow if they formally and formally acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia? So, let's not deal with political phraseology, let's see the practical effects of what is passed by the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship. I fear it will be again, as will the various events of every other day, the "toe-toe in the eye" of Montenegro and the people who rule Montenegro, whether we like them or not. We have this in place every day as a retribution for the decision of the citizens of Montenegro to live in their sovereign state. Some people in power, such as the current and former prime ministers, above all, the former government, had as a priority the preservation and strengthening of the state community. As we can see, it has fallen apart, and they have remained in their functions, with no sense of responsibility and what is the pandan of responsibility, which is either withdrawal or exchangeability. I think it's on the same background and the proposal for this law, which, in addition to some other remarks, can have certain positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5050	Thank you. There is a word for the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Shain.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5051	I will talk about Articles 225, 226, 100 and 101 and all those who speak about the relationship between the Government and Parliament. I need to make two examples out of practice. One's good, one's bad. The first is that a lot has been done a month and a half ago in the co-operation of members of the Roma National Community and the Ministry of Interior, so that security has increased in one part of the settlement. However, the obvious example of bad practice is this. I spoke of this first in the press, and I would like to warn the representatives of Parliament about this second. It is unacceptable that even after the parliamentary question -- why no elections for the Roma National Council have been called, this has not happened to date, and even though we have talked to the Minister for Local Self-Government. He remains deaf to law enforcement, still has some personal interest, continues to help his colleagues, individuals who are likely members of his political party and are at the helm of the Roma National Council, to abuse this significant institution of the Roma national minority. I remind you, there have been 30,000 signatures for the new elections in the Roma National Council and for 30,000 signatures here we are told not to know where they are. When we offered to help them find these 30,000 signatures, when we offered them documents, then they told us, you'd get a new law, so by this new law, you'd have elections, both us and everyone else. I don't know if we have to wait for local elections, if we have to wait for other elections, to change the leaders of the National Council, which and how they abuse the money they receive and other funds, which could be used for some other purpose. In that sense, I would like to inform Parliament. So, this ministry does not enforce laws, this ministry does not carry out the will of Serbian citizens, this ministry violates the rights that the Roma national minority received by law and this ministry does not, apparently, enforce the Constitution. My obligation, as an MP, is to inform Parliament, to warn that a large number of citizens of the Roma national minority, and there are 30,000 who have signed such a request, unsatisfactory, that if they are not seriously alerted after this intervention, Mr Minister, I hope that his party colleagues will pass it on to him, at the end of the month, and thus clearly say that the only thing they are asking - to implement what the Constitution and the law guarantee. We're not looking for anything else. We're not even asking to politicize the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5052	Mr. Shane, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5053	I've been trying for three months in Parliament, I hereby conclude, to warn you of that. I ask once again that this warning be taken seriously, that tomorrow the burden of responsibility is not transferred to someone else, that someone is unserious, that someone is a state enemy, that someone, in a situation where Kosovo is negotiated, is trying to make moves that can harm the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5054	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Alexander Vucic, from the SRS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is in part exactly what the interior minister was talking about here, bringing the law into the legal and technical order, to technical norms that suit the current situation in which Serbia is, after we were left without the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, formed by Kostunica, Djindjic, Djukanovic, Labus and Solana. I am not worried about the five people and their reputation in the Serbian people, but I am worried about the fact that we have lost 250 to 300,000 Serbs in Montenegro or, if you will, 200 to 250 thousand, but certainly without a huge part of our people who wanted not only the state union, but also the common state. Lawyers know the difference. Many of them wanted the single state of our people, as we wanted, the Serbian radicals. The bottom line is, it would be clear to the citizens of Serbia what this is about, next. So, Montenegro's citizens' decision is a falsified will, and I say it is undecided, because there were no equal conditions to declare Montenegro's citizens. Because of the six TVs, five are fully controlled by the regime in Montenegro, which is separatist, and only one television has opened its doors to each other and does not cover half of the territory of the Republic of Montenegro; only one television has been for everyone, while everyone else is working to support the separatist policy. It is clear then that this decision is not legitimate, it is not legal, but it has obtained its legal validity, therefore, because all key and political actors, apart from the Serbian list, have recognised the results of the referendum and our reality today is so. We in Serbia have done little of our job. We have not helped enough our people in Montenegro. And that money that was sent to our people, for that little campaign to stand up to a rich separatist regime, was sent to the hands of thieves and criminals, some of the parties that were so-called. The pro-Yugoslav orientations, which were listed for their own needs, had not occurred to them to invest in a campaign against Milo Djukanovic and the separatist Montenegrin authorities. So we've suffered another national defeat and we're facing it today and we're watching what we can do today. The adoption of such a law would be of crucial, vital national importance and national interest. This, Mr. Minister, can't be a technical question. This can't be a legal-technical editorial and harmonising with what we have today, for God's sake, as a situation, or we have, really, like a situation, which is two independent states. So here is the question of what is it that we can do for our people. Let's see who these people were against the community with Serbia. It was a Separatist regime, and if you take the census, you will see that, according to the latest census, 31% of the Serbian people, 43% of the people, as they say, are the Montenegrin people, and the rest are the Cypriots, Muslims and members of other national minorities. So, who do we want to help with this law? What is our intention? Article 23 of the current law on citizenship of the Republic of Serbia states that the bill does not change this, that it is possible that a member of a Serb or another nation or ethnic community from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which does not have residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is admitted to Serbian citizenship if he has turned 18 years of life, has not been deprived of his business capacity etc. Under the conditions laid down in Article 1, citizenship may also be admitted to a person born in another republic earlier to the SFRY, who had the nationality of the Republic or is a national of another country, located in the territory of former SFRY, who has escaped, exiled or displaced, or resided in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or has fled abroad. Mr. Minister, such an interpretation of the law is now possible two interpretations of this member of the law, which you have not changed. It is possible, first interpretation, that since we have no refugees, displaced and exiled faces, this is not applied to our citizens, or to Serbs in Montenegro or to any other citizen. On the second interpretation, Mr. Minister, which is also very bad and I will try to point out to you now, which is why I hope that your parliamentary group will accept the amendments of the SRS -- everyone has the right to have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I want to tell you that this is what we, Mr. Minister, are rewarding separatists and those who have done everything in their power and which is against Serbia. You know it's true and I'm telling the truth. You know that would punish the Serb list as a legitimate representative of the Serb people in Montenegro. You know we'd punish them politically. You know that we are politically punishing the entire Serbian people. The Serbs in Montenegro want to have their own. I know you were in Montenegro, we were in Montenegro, we spoke with representatives of our people. SRS representatives held several press conferences in Podgorica, met with Andrija Mandic, as the leader of the Serbian List, and with representatives from the Serbian People's Party, the SRS and all other parties in Montenegro. You, honourable MPs, must bear in mind the following thing, but also the citizens of Serbia, 250,000 Serbs in Montenegro would feel deceived and betrayed and abandoned by the state of Serbia, from our country, from their homeland, because for them Serbia is a country, just as they live in Montenegro today. If you think there is a Serb in Montenegro who makes the difference between Pljevlja and Prijepolje and between Belgrade and Podgorica, you have made a terrible mistake. In that, too, we differ from those who represent separatist politics here, in Serbia, because we advocate unity and the whole of the Serbian people. We can't do that right now. With the will of great forces, by falsifying the electoral will, there was support for separatist aspirations, with, of course, abundant assistance, as I said, a foreign factor. When I say foreign, I mean not only the West, but also the Albanian state and many others. I don't want to tell you that up to 12 hours in Ulcinj, 34% came out, and in the rest of Montenegro there was 51%; in the end, 92% came out in Ulcinj, etc. It is enough to say just what has happened, especially in Albanian centres, etc. and how much they wanted to harm Serbia, including the Serbian people in Montenegro. So the amendments to the SRS are very clear. I will read to you the next position, and I think it is essential, which we expect all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to support. In Article 16, paragraph 2 is amended and reads - the citizen of the Republic of Serbia in the sense of this law is also considered a national of another country, a member of the Serb people, if he submits a written statement that he is considered a member of the Serbian people and considers the Republic of Serbia as his country. It's the purest possible formulation. I can immediately tell you that, as Minister Jocic also knows, it is in agreement with our partners from the Serb list in Montenegro, with legitimate representatives of Serbia's, therefore, of our people in Montenegro. In order not to say that it is contrary to the views that exist in parallel law in the international community, since I know that there are separatists and on-call protectors of the character and the work of representatives of the Montenegrin government and of the Montenegrin regime, I must also point to the following fact. We would do nothing different than what Croatia has done and what Croats have in Montenegro and BiH. I'm sorry to have to say, but all we have to do is apply their model, the same thing they applied to Herceg-Bosnia and Montenegro. Remember, Croats in Montenegro are less than 2%. They have dual citizenship, they have dual citizenship in BiH, so Miodrag Vukovic had to apologize to those he said he could not, Serbs, because he forgot that he had already given the same right to Croats in Montenegro. Let's see how the Separatist regime will say, we give the Croats that right, and we don't give it to the Serbs. What's this about? I know some people are gonna talk about the election, like, some people want to change I don't know what. I guess we people are doing something here for our country and for our people, not for the elections, not for the votes. Is someone worried about how people are gonna vote tomorrow? Well, you worry about who the Serbs from Montenegro will vote for, so you worry about who Serbs from Republika Srpska will vote for one day, so you worry about who the Krajina Serbs will vote for. Is that what you're worried about? That's why you're going to undermine the interests of the Serbian people, because you know they won't vote for you. Is that what you promised us in the election campaign, dual citizenship with the Republika Srpska? You promised that to our people in Montenegro, so Milorad Dodik went, I'll remind you, he first appeared at the G17 Plus rally in Loznica, where he said he loved G17 Plus and Mladjan Dinkic, and most of all in the world hates SRS, because you needed to bring the radicals down to a minimum, or that they didn't have any MPs. It's hard for me to count here, and I'm not weak in math, how many radicals there are. I have to say that after that, Milorad Dodik also showed up at a DS rally, one of the finals, and then he supported Boris Tadic, and then he showed up at the final DSS meeting, all at the concert, and he supported them. Not to say that he supported others during the previous period. How did this support end and all the stories of a referendum in Republika Srpska, about dual citizenship for our people? It ended with a three-way villa for Milorad Dodik in Dedinj, with seven apartments, which you gave him the first day you came to power, worth several million euros. The first job you have done, instead of dual citizenship for our people, instead of our people from Republika Srpska benefiting from the benefit of our people in Montenegro, instead of doing something for our citizens, you have been dealing with crime, how to give a criminal an even bigger villa in the middle of Belgrade than there are so far, to thank him for all of the great idiotic support he has given you during the election campaign. Who do you work for, people? What kind of bill is this? A technical law on the most important national issue for our citizens, for our people?- I'm sorry. Do you know how many Serbs in Montenegro are watching us now? People today did not go to work in all of Montenegro, wherever they could not go, just to watch a meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from the north of Montenegro. It is funny for some who look more at Agim Ceku and are more interested in what Agim Ceku and Hashim Thaci will tell them, than the Serbs will tell them. It is sad for Serbia when it has you in Parliament. It is that you have barely crossed the censorship, but it is saddened that the sadder it cannot be. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that in progress... Mr. Minister, I have great respect for everything you've said, and I've listened from the scene, so please, I'd like, for the sake of my concentration, to finish meaningfully, as I hope so far have spoken. I know many who today, in the course of this campaign, hysterical campaign -- lived in the West and all the Western values, hold big letters about how we have to become one, globalisation is, and now you Serbs there want something, and in doing so publicly praise the newspapers that the books don't read, that they ended up with torture and over a fat relationship with bad schools and colleges and never in anything but petty crime and slicing, they didn't stand out. The whole world is the same, and now you'd like something special to yourself. Now you Serbs, your language in Montenegro, wish Serbs had their own, Serbian language, in Montenegro. These are all the great Western minds, the pro-Western minds of our country, and these are all the heirs of the worst communists. The first, to remind you, is the story of the Montenegrin language, which Mr. Micunovic well knows, released by a great villain of the former communist regime, Vladimir Bakaric, in the late 1970s in Podgorica, saying it is necessary to find it, for the sake of the story of the identity of the Montenegrin people, and we are listening to this story today. I see, exactly, who are, for money, supporters of anti-Serbian ideas here, in Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia know that. Tonight, look at the daily TV of Montenegro, the ones most quoted, you'll see exactly where the money comes from, and how much. What's this about? Is the American language spoken in America? Is the Australian language spoken in Australia? Does he speak Canadian in Canada, not counting Quebec? I haven't heard of it. I didn't hear you speak Belgian in Belgium. I know about the Valons and the Flames, so some speak French, others speak Flemish or Dutch. I didn't hear them speak that language. It only exists with us. I'm not worried about what Milo Djukanovic's doing. I understand what he's doing, but I don't understand those accidents from Serbia that support him. I don't understand the worst in Serbia, who know nothing but to be against the Serb people. And when it's for money, I don't know how much money, look at you in the mirror, look at your people, look at the Serbs, don't be ashamed of your generation. Don't tell us that these are European values. Here you go, Croatia will join the European Union. We're just looking for what the Croats have, nothing more. The rights that Croats have in Montenegro, in Herceg-Bosnia, as they call it, and anywhere in the former Yugoslavia, the same rights we seek for Serbs. No more than that. Let's see if you're ready to accept that, see who's in this country and why he's not ready to accept such suggestions. One more thing, we've suffered many defeats in the last 15 or 16 years, despite the fact that we haven't experienced the genocide it was during World War II. We had the most difficult and the biggest victims in the area of the former Yugoslavia. The most exiled people are of Serb gender. I respect every sacrifice, but it seems to me that some would forget about Serbian victims, that some would forget about what it is that Serbs lost and what we, in different ways, lost by the fault of all of us. To some, it doesn't matter, they'd give it without any reason, it's great for them, nice, fancy. I'm so glad to be sitting at Dorian Grey or some other bar and dying of laughter, as some of the MPs here are now. They don't care. They refuse to tell this LDP guy or I don't know which parties I'm explaining anything, she's dying of laughter and doesn't know what she's going to do with herself, laughing over the fate of the Serbian people. It's not worth it. We have different values, as someone says. To us, the survival of the Serbian people is worth more than anything, and you care about other values: what and how to carry it in your pocket on the 'Exit', the 'Bir Fest'. Maybe it's not always in your pocket, I don't know where you keep it or how you hold it. That's what we're different about. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the regime in Serbia, let's see now, since you knew you were rallying, since you knew you were collecting political points in Serbia, talking about how you support the Serbian people in Montenegro, especially you from the DSS, to see if you would support the SRS amendments, to see if you would be willing to help our people in Montenegro. Let me tell you something, imagine that Serbian citizenship is taken from you by those who have done everything against Serbia, in the worst possible way, and that you make it possible for them to do the same, as Serbs who would give anything for that citizenship, and that they do not have any privilege, just so they can say that they have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine if you gave Ranka Krivokapic or Veselin Barovic the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, so that it would be possible under this law! I'd think I was a citizen of Ukraine or I don't know which countries. I didn't know that Mr. Krinakapic also had Croatian citizenship, in the extreme line, is not particularly important, but I imagined this guy, like Ranko Krivokapic, Veselin Barovic, I don't know what they call them, those criminals, that Brana, etc. I was talking about him, Mr. Jocic, publicly, from a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5056	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5057	When I say it in public, from a pay phone, and on television shows, I'm talking about the most serious crimes and everything else, as you know. That is why I expect Minister Jocic and the other representatives of the parliamentary majority, the regime in Serbia, to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, because without accepting the amendments submitted by Serbian Radicals, this law is not bad, but disastrous by Serbian national interests, the protracted law. The law will lead to the destruction of Serbia's national being in Montenegro, unless you accept an amendment to Serbian radicals. Don't let me remind others, who have promised, in talks with legitimate Serb-born representatives in Montenegro, that they will vote for such an amendment proposed by Serbian radicals. It's our job to show it today. We don't touch anyone, we don't insult anyone, we don't mind members of any other people, we respect all the peoples, we love all the peoples, but somehow we love the Serbian people most, and we are obliged to do what every country does for its people. I am talking about those outside the borders of today's Serbia, and of course all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are fully equal. Thank you again for this. I am sure that if you accept the SRS amendment today, but tonight in Podgorica, Niksic, Herceg Novi, Budva, Beran, Pljevi, but also in Prijepolje, Priboj and in every other Serbian town near the administrative border with Montenegro, you will see and experience fireworks and joy, nothing less than what they organised when they gained independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5058	The word is made by the head of the LDP Parliament Club, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5059	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a much more serious topic behind the amendments and the addition of the Law that we are currently discussing, than in the very proposal for a law that we will plead. That's the first problem of this debate. By reading the reasons for the solutions adopted by amendments and additions to the proposed law, we cannot, if we are reasonable, have any rational objection. It is, more or less, by reading strictly the material that is ahead of us, a simple administrative procedure. We cannot ignore, as politicians and politicians, what preceded the amendments and additions of this law and what apparently stands before us, which at this point the government does not want to discuss, but announces the talks. Here I am referring to the observation of the government's competent representative, who has announced more serious changes to the Law on Citizenship. Does this mean that this amendment and supplementation of the law is unserious? If so, why? It is very important, among other things, a sentence in a material that says that the Republic of Serbia is bound by such a procedure, but that this obligation is at the same time its interest. What kind of interest in the Republic of Serbia was created by giving citizenship to nationals of another country who were on the territory of Serbia at the time of the acquisition of independence of the other state, i.e. the separation of the state community? Let's say what's of interest, formulate it. It may be good, but it's important for us to get into the essence that follows the status of a citizen of this country. The state has an obligation to its citizens, as well as to those who will gain the right of citizenship through changes and additions to this law that we are now discussing. How much does that commitment cost? How is the value the government speaks of when it mentions the interests that will be achieved in line with the needs of the Serbian state? What is what, in fact, is true? It is true that the government has not agreed with the Montenegrin state and that at the moment the Government of the Republic of Serbia is accessing the problem in a different way from the government of Montenegro. Why is that? There's a need for an explanation. We also heard a debate behind which one great truth stands, which we point to all the time. It is true that Serbs outside Serbia always pay the price of the wrong Serbian policy, regardless of whether it is Serbs from Croatia, Serbs from Bosnia, Serbs from Montenegro or Serbs from Kosovo. They always end up paying the price of the wrong policy and they become victims, and the policy and government that put them in that position expects us to go over it like nothing happened. Serbia-Montenegro spent a century in the common state. With the will of the citizens of Montenegro, Montenegro has stepped out of the common state, created its own, restored its independence. If in this way we change the Law on Citizenship, avoiding the essence, which is the agreement with Montenegro on regulating this issue, we are, in fact, sending a message saying that we believe that the situation that characterizes our mutual relations at the moment is only temporary and that this error, which has occurred by fraud, manipulation, deception, which has led to the creation of an independent Montenegro, will be corrected very quickly. Who are we cheating on? Montenegro? No, I don't. She doesn't even care about that. That's the problem for us here, in Serbia. Some examples, an example of Croatia, have been mentioned. Let's also talk about a second case, the case of Hungary, to talk about Hungary's relationship to its people outside the borders of the country of origin, about Hungary's relationship with the Hungarians in Romania, Serbia, Slovakia. Hungary treats the problem more carefully. Imagine if the Hungarian authorities were to address the issue as the government in Serbia is today, if they would take care of their daily political interests. We can't vote on this. We need to agree on this, and we can't agree because there's no elemental preconditions for the deal. Why are we discussing amendments to the law along with remarks from the government's representatives that this is just a temporary solution? It is little for a year and a half to write a valid law and thus remove any adverse consequences that we cannot dispute, preventing the formation of apatride, i.e. that no one loses their citizenship. Why would someone lose their citizenship? We agree you shouldn't. It is even worse to allow someone today in Serbia to do what he thought he was doing in Montenegro until yesterday, so it didn't work out for him. When a citizen of Serbia, with citizenship, assumes obligations towards that state, is a commitment to loyalty. Mr Batic spoke of some elements of this loyalty, how these problems will be regulated. We know that most of those who will gain citizenship based on changes and additions to this law, most of the business people, registered in Belgrade, with property in Montenegro, property in Serbia, avoiding tax payments in both Serbia and Montenegro. When you ask - where do you pay taxes, he says - I pay in Montenegro; when asked in Montenegro - where do you pay taxes, he says - I pay in Serbia. And this state needs to serve them, protect them, allow them to school, heal, acquire capital, develop, as it develops. The question of loyalty is very important. As for the measure of our patriotism, it is directly contrary to the measure that is now hidden behind those great but empty words. I am sorry for the Serbian people in Montenegro, he has been deceived, such as the cheated Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Does that people understand? He understands and sees that he has been left behind, because there is no other explanation for the fact, that, say, Serbia has not reached Montenegro to confess before Iceland, or has not sent its ambassador to Montenegro for a year and a half, while Montenegro has sent its ambassador to Serbia after a month or two. The Serbian people in Montenegro were left behind, not at the mercy and mercy of the Montenegrin state, but left with me and the problem it is in. He'll be able to get out of it, first of all, if he asks for an answer from the state he belongs to, and that's Montenegro. If he asks Serbia for an answer and a solution, the agony in which he lives will last, and here he will never find that support, as many before, before the Serb people from Montenegro, they did not find. Whether they lived in one province or another, whether they lived in Knin or Sarajevo, whether they lived in Prizren or Peća, they found no support in the Serbian parliament, because in the Serbian parliament, it dominates a policy that destroys its society and its people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5060	Replica, Alexander Wolf, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad the representative of the LDP couldn't look back on their favourite Croatian models, because we called on this one, in this case, Croatian model, so it doesn't seem to fit them this time. I'll refer to the Hungarian model here. It's good to explain to the citizens of Serbia what this is all about. In fact, it would be good if the state of Serbia could do for its people everything Hungary does for its citizens, and for its nuance it less jeopardises the territorial integrity of other countries than Hungary does. When you talk about the relationship between Hungary and Slovakia, I think I know the relations between Hungary and Slovakia well, I don't know if you know that there are major debates and major conflicts between the Hungarian and Slovak states, above all, because Slovakia does not want to apologize to the Hungarians for the Benesch principles. Benesch's principles were, for those who do not know, established when Slovakia, after the end of World War II, declared members of the Hungarian national minority in its territory, those who co-operated with the German occupier, to be the same occupiers. They don't want the three wars, or war crimes they've been committing to each other, to apologize to each other. In doing so, in Lucnica, the Vienna Centre and Komarno, I suppose those places mean nothing to you, and we who are seriously concerned with the rights of national minorities know well enough about it, these are places in Slovakia, in southern Slovakia, in which Hungarians represent the majority. In Komarno, Hungarians have absolutely all rights, with Hungarian ID cards entering, first of all, the Jer, which is closest to them, but also to other Hungarian places, without passport documents. From Sudotica and other places in Vojvodina, Hungarians are also able to access the territory of the Republic of Hungary without a passport, because there is no agreement on dual citizenship with Serbia. So maybe it'll just stay as a backup. It's always necessary and it would be good if he could make a deal with someone. If we can't make a deal, then there's something we can do for our people, but we don't threaten anyone. Who are we threatening if we give dual citizenship to citizens of Montenegro who are Serbian nationalities? How do the Serbs threaten them if they plead so and not threatened by the Croats?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5062	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5063	What's the difference? What's the problem? The problem is that we Serbs are enough for ourselves to destroy our own interests, because there will always be someone who will not work for Serbs, but will work for someone else, because it is important how much money will be, how many other things will be, just so that Serbia will be as little, or Serbs, even beyond its borders. This is a request from Serbs in Montenegro, this is not our request, this is a request from Serbs from Pljevljalj, Bar, Herceg Novi, Danilovgrad, Niksic, Podgorica, every other place, Beran, Andrijevica, Vasojevic. So that's their wish. Who are we to change their wishes? Who are we to oppose them in this matter and to tell them - we will not reject you, we reject you. We have no right to do that. It's our job to do what we can for them. Unfortunately, because of our incompetence, because of the irresponsibility and indemnity of the state we live in, we haven't done everything necessary, we haven't done what would be enough to stay together, but today this is a minimum that Serbia cannot and cannot go under. It would be a shame to get out of here without doing it. I know there are those who don't understand it and who don't care about it, I don't even look back at them. I urge you once again, representatives of the regime in Serbia, to accept the SRS amendment. This will not be much, but something small for the Serbian people in Montenegro, something small for Serbs in general, not only in Montenegro, but also in Republika Srpska, Serbia's Krajina, everywhere in the world. Do not give up Serbs in Germany or Austria or America or Australia. There are few of us in order to give up each other, and we will have to build a different and better future for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5064	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5065	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting by article 100 and article 101. I really expect you, Mr. Dulic, as President of Parliament who is in charge of the debate, to apply the rules that we all need to respect. Whether or not those rules suit someone, that's another question, but as long as there are rules they must be respected. I was misread. I've made it very clear, and I'm going to do it again. When our fellow MPs, who sit with us in the benches, in Subotica ask for double citizenship for themselves, our country gives them a beautiful label of traitors. When our Albanian citizens in southern Serbia raise an Albanian flag, they are attracted to the label of traitors, and you expect, on the other hand, from another country, that it, without agreement, has the kind of relationship you want it to be to its citizens. He can't. If it is about relations with Serbs in Montenegro, it is not a problem in the LDP. We have 10 MPs, and we will not support this law, because of the very clear facts that I have talked about before. We don't have more than 200 other MPs. Come on, once, you radicals, look how many of you are. Fight for the Serbs of Montenegro more than you fought for Seselj's jeep, no less. They took you out of here, you broke the furniture by defending one car, and five years later you talk about it. Fight for the Serbs of Montenegro. Why are you leaving them to smugglers, drug dealers, junkies, pouritics, what do I know to whom? No more games. We paid dearly for all those mistakes. A deal with the government of Montenegro, and we will support every agreement with the government of Montenegro. Double citizenship -- dual citizenship, special concern for the Serbs in Montenegro -- special concern for the Serbs in Montenegro, but not with the intention of happening tomorrow what didn't happen yesterday, but with the intention that tomorrow and the day after that, never again what happened yesterday or the day before. A deal with those who took responsibility for managing the states, that's what we want. At the moment, whether it is Minister Jocic, whether it is Minister Kalomperovic, whether it is Prime Minister Kostunica, it is second-rate data. A deal between the authorities, not ignoring sovereignty, integrity, the character of a state, in a situation where we ourselves pre-namedly apostrophe of these facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5066	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5067	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my words have been misread. We need an amended Law on Citizenship, and this is not disputed, but not as a political pamphlet, but a law that will fully settle this issue, which must not be used by a system of double arches. Why did I say that? Because I read the proposal for a law on Montenegro's citizenship, which is very restrictive, which provides for an accusation, it doesn't matter whether it's Serbian citizenship or another state, between citizenship. Will you bring people who will accept Serbia's citizenship and lose Montenegro's citizenship? The matter must be done bilaterally, through a convention between the two sovereign states, whether we like Montenegro or not, its leadership and the political elite. This has nothing to do with it, and apparently the ruling oligarchy and the ruling political elite don't like it. Every day, there are regrets, insults, continued Serbia acts as if Montenegro were its province or province, and worse than that. Yesterday, a cheerful minister was digging up the foundations of a church, in connection with a bishop who was an idolater of Slobodan Milosevic, who, besides the icon of the 'White Angel', was making a rally of young Socialists, bishops who continue to celebrate Milosevic, and said the following - Montenegro needs to be squeezed, squeezed and squeezed, they react only to pressures. It's not a patriotic contest. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this contest in patriotism over the last 15 or 20 years has cost us dearly. The most expensive cost the Serbian people and no lesson was drawn. So the world doesn't work that way. To turn one more position, will Serbian citizens who lived in Montenegro on 3 June last year be able to gain Montenegro's citizenship? It won't work. What do we do now? Is that reciprocity? It's not reciprocity. Then why do you do it? Because they are much smaller than the former citizens of Montenegro who had a residence in Serbia. What's that? Politics. Modern Europe, the modern world does not work that way, and that is why we need one such law, but comprehensive and orderly. It will be difficult to arrange, because, as has already been said, 15 months since Montenegro became Serbia's sovereign state has not had its ambassador to Montenegro. It is everywhere in the white world, where no Serb or Serbian citizen is present, but it is not in Montenegro, because it is a message to the ruling elite in Montenegro that does not like this authority. It doesn't matter if you like or don't like it, the government in Montenegro, the government in Croatia or anywhere else. You must live in a real world and obey some of the rules of the world. Just another observation at the end, Mr. President. Because we still don't have the Constitutional Court, and neither does this law, when it is passed, will it be unable to be subject to the assessment of constitutionality, because unfortunately, you are going beyond that when you get distracted. It has been seven months since Parliament was established, and Serbia has no Constitutional Court. Then it is possible to pass laws that violate the Constitution in various ways, and you have no one to complain to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5068	According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukic called. Before I read the notice just arrived to the Serbian General Secretary of the Assembly, Tamara Stojcevic. "I inform you that, given our previously agreed, as well as marketing obligations, today, 11.9.2007, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament directly on the second RTS programme after 15.20 hours. Namely, at 15.20 p.m., the European Championship volleyball match in Moscow, Serbia-France, begins, and then we have a contractual obligation to broadcast matches from the European basketball championship in Spain. We'll give you a notice, as well as to the citizens, when the delayed recording of the Assembly will be broadcast. 'So, after 15.20 hours, there will be no direct transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5069	I'm surprised, first of all, Mr. Dulic, by what you said. It would be fine if you had consulted with representatives of parliamentary groups, representatives of parties, because I think someone can understand that the match Serbia - France is very important and that we would all like to win ours in this quarterfinal group, but I don't understand that any match of the Croatian team, by any contract, since ours fell out at the basketball championship, is more important than the issue of dual citizenship for Serbs anywhere in the world. If you have a Croatian team or any other team, I think that today is the very Croatian team under that contract, more important than the debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on dual citizenship for Serbs around the world, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5070	Mr. Wolfie, just to be clear, I'm just as surprised by this telegram as you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5071	This remark of mine wasn't addressed to you personally. I'd like to point out a few facts. Every time it comes to anti-Serb attitudes, I know who's going to go out for the assembly pay phone. Serbian citizens know that and are always the same words. Here's the matrix: we've had enough, 15, 20 years, the story of patriotism, we've had enough of the stories of traitors, until these stories have brought us, we should do everything differently. What are we supposed to do? Let's get a hooch, and we'll bang on our own head and yell at how nice we are?- I'm sorry. It's a little bit that these people of yours are banging us on the head, but we're supposed to take the hoof, so we can yell how much nicer we are than when they hit us on the head. Why are you yelling, Mr. Jovanovic, when you come out here? As soon as you lose your nerve, you start yelling. Why do you care so much? You mention Seselj's jeep. Is that the one you stole? Is that the one that you, with all the force, attacked to steal it and kidnap it? You stole and kidnapped Mr. Jovanovic. Here, Jocic's still got him. It wasn't a question of one car. As you know, it's not today in that sense, I don't get into other people's jeeps, private ones, and in everything else, it's your stuff. I'm interested in something else. How can that principle of kidnapping and robbery be good? When someone metaphorically, showing everyone how to stand up to such a regime, fights it, turns out to be his fault. What are we supposed to do here? Did Mr. Dulic throw us out, just like your government threw us out? Not yet. I'm not saying that now that the Rules of Procedure are changed, I'm not saying that they won't do anything, I'm not saying that their opinion is essentially different from yours, but they haven't yet. As long as we have the opportunity not to shout, without saying everything that is the ideas of Serbian radicals, everything that is our political programme, we will speak freely from this pay phone and fear no one. I want to inform you, Mr. Jovanovic, but, first of all, you from the regime, Mr. Jocic. In ten, 15 minutes, representatives of the Serb list from Montenegro arrive at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I say - bring, accept this amendment, not only because of them, but because of Serbs from Berlin, London, New York, every other place. Why should Croats be better than us in their relationship with the citizens? We don't insult anyone. We do nothing wrong with these, if you will, not to the Montenegrin authorities. If you ask me if I am better than Milo Djukanovic, not at all, only those who represent the interests of the Serb people are better. Separatists both, there's no difference. We have no division of power and opposition, but we have a division of those who protect Serbian national interests and those who are against them. Soon, when Mr. Mandic comes, I'm sure you will, Mr. Jocic, also have an obligation to the representatives of our people in Montenegro, to explain whether or not you accept the amendments of the SRS. I urge you once again, Mr. President of the National Assembly, to speak with RTS representatives during your break. I love basketball very much, I used to play it, not successfully, and I can't tell anyone about it, but much more, I'm sure our people around the world are interested in what is a key Serbian national issue, not how Davor Kus or I don't know who from the Croatian team is going to miss or achieve the basket. I don't think the citizens of Serbia are particularly interested, I think it irritates them more. In the end, this law today determines our relationship only to our people, by not taking anyone away from them, by not taking any rights, by abolishing no one's countries, which they have acquired in one way or another. This is all we want and we want to have what everyone else has on the globe of the Earth, that Serbs living outside the borders of the Serbian state today can boast, only to boast that they have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. For them it means a lot more, it's a piece of paper than millions of dinars and euros and everything else, because wherever they live, wherever they live, they can't live, it's more important than anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5072	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5073	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I must say, in short, that the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians advocates dual citizenship, but the Vojvodina Hungarians do not receive automatic dual citizenship. So let's not talk about the Hungarian model. It is simply not true that citizens of Hungarian origin from Subotica or from any city of Vojvodina travel and cross the state border of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary with any legislation. I must say, for the sake of the public and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the duchy Hungarians are crossing the state border with a passport and a visa. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: only in Serbia, and in Hungary with documents. That's not true. The Vojvodian Hungarians do not receive automatic Hungarian citizenship. It is true that the Hungarians from Komarna come to Hungary with a ID, but it is because of the European Union. If we were in the EU, we'd go to Hungary with IDs, but we're taking a passport. Both Hungarians, as well as Serbs, Romanians, Slovaks, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stand for hours in front of consulates and at the Consulate of the Republic of Hungary in Subotica, but it is not the world's fault, it is not Hungary, the EU, but it is the government of the Republic of Serbia's fault and the devastating regime of the 1990s. That is why Serbia is still on the black Schengen list. We, of course, advocate, as a party, as well as all the duchy Hungarians, for the white Schengen list, for the EU. We believe that if the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants us to get closer to the European Union, then we need European laws a little faster to propose to the National Assembly, so that the travel documents law is not the sixth item on the agenda, and that of the 64 European laws in the assembly procedure there is only one. Then all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will go to the Republic of Hungary and to all other EU countries with legislation, as all citizens of the Republic of Slovakia do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5074	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Despotovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in connection with the ban on Montenegro's entry and the service of Prime Minister Filaret, the bishop of Mileshevski, in the work of his diocese, we Serbian radicals and all of the people of the Raška area are fiercely protesting. At a time when our mouths and ears are filled with Western democracies...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5076	Mr. Despotovic, I apologize, for the record, which member of the Rules of Procedure you called upon.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5077	A member of the 221th People’s MP may be required to participate in the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5078	I don't know how we break it. Okay, 225 or 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5079	That's good. We are witnessing that in the most harsh way, basic human and religious rights and freedoms are violated and does not allow the bishop of Milesevski to perform uninterrupted worship in his diocese. You can imagine, in the most democratic state of Montenegro. The listeners of Carla del Ponte, who swear to Western democracy, invent the reasons for the ban on Mr. Filaret's entry into Montenegro, under the pretext that he was helping and hiding UN war crimes indictees, and that there is no written document on the ban, except the oral ban on police. Hide and assist indictees DOS examined in detail three or four years ago, by breaking into the magnificent court of Eparhya Milesevski. You won't believe it, gentlemen, even under arms they entered the Manastir Milesheva, that, by any chance, the White Angel, so one MP mentioned him earlier, did not hide any fugitives. The displaced Montenegro would make it possible for Miras Dedejic to uninterrupted kidnap Serbian blasphemies, because, according to Bishop Filaret -- where I don't come, Dedejic will come. We are not surprised, Serbian radicals, by the behaviour of the government in Montenegro, but we are wondering why the authorities in Serbia have not done anything, but have come forward when Bishop Filaret's life has already been threatened. Is it possible to wonder that no human rights organization has found it appropriate for this case to be published? We, Serbian radicals, condemn such behaviour, both Montenegrin authorities and Serbians, and fully support Mr Filaret in his intention to persist in the fight to protect his diocese and his trusted people. May those in Serbia, who wrote the indictment of Dr Vojislav Seselj, say loud and clear, not hiding that they did not blacklist and bishop Filaretta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5080	Thank you. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic appeared, but MP Predrag Stosic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5081	The honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the emphasis on Albanian flags in southern Serbia, those, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, are being followed by greatness.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5082	Please, Mr. Stosic, again for the record, which is a member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5083	226. With Albanian flags outlining Albanian terrorists who killed Serb police officers. With these flags, Orthodox temples are being broken and all this does not work to move Serbs out of these areas, not to mention that at the opening of the school in Bujanovac, with the emphasis of the Albanian flag, the intonated and Albanian anthem with the American flag, without emphasis on the Serbian flag. I also have a question, not a question, but to inform the Minister of Police, since I received an answer from him to the parliamentary question concerning gatherings in the organization of so-called "the so-called" Veteran UCPMB, a terrorist organization recently held in Presevo, which he reported to me that he had given permission. The gathering included requests for NATO forces to come to those premises and the separation of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac municipalities from Serbia in the event of Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence. I warn you, Minister, that you have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 8 and Article 54, so I will read it to you. Article 54 says: "Freedom of assembly can only be restricted by law if necessary in order to protect public health, morals, the rights of other or security of the Republic of Serbia. ''Requests carried out directly endanger the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and encourage the eviction of Serbs from these areas and throughout the south of central Serbia and disrupt international relations. This is a direct violation of Article 8, which says: "The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. The border of the Republic of Serbia is non-injurious, and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. '"This permit of yours, to make such views, you directly participated in the violation of these members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5084	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gojko Radic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5085	Gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 226. A fellow pastor tried to deceive the public from this pay phone. The first inaccuracy he has said is that Poland and the surrounding countries are entering because they are members of the European Union. Well, Mr. Pastor, you should know that during these armed conflicts from Croatia, they entered with ID cards, although she was not a member of the European Union; we know that armed groups from Hungary entered the territory of Republika Srpska and committed a crime in Baranja, so there was no condition for Hungary to be a member of the European Union in order to enter Hungary. As for Hungarian ID cards from Vojvodina, Hungarian, they exist in the Hungarians in Vojvodina, and all those who wanted to take the Hungarian State ID cards. The condition for mixed marriages was only to speak Hungarian; a statement was signed at the Hungarian consulate in Subotica and there they were divided and received ID cards. You only need a passport to cross the Serbian border, and yet, through Hungary and Hungary, it enters with Hungarian ID cards, and that's logical.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5086	On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Riza Halimi called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5087	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, I had to report for article 226, and also 104. For the sake of dignity and misinformation around national symbols, let me say that this issue is not sufficiently solved by the existing law. With us, the national flag was used for 15 years, from 1968 to 1989, and then, in fact, the party's decision was approved, the party's decision abolished the Albanian right. Here, for several years, we have been unable to resolve this properly, as both Macedonia and Montenegro have dealt with. If a national symbol can be used there, the national flag of Albanians, why not in Serbia, when there was such a practice, about 15-16 years? I think it is necessary to find the strength and courage to address this problem and not have to move it here to the field of terrorism and any charges, because it is the legitimate right of Albanians to use their national symbol, which, in fact, is the state of Albania since 1912 used as a flag. Since the 15th century, it has been a national symbol of all Albanians, wherever they are. There's this practice and there's tension every year over this problem. Since you've already started this story, I'm calling from here a little faster and the more vigorously we solve this problem, the more I repeat, that it was solved both by Montenegro and Macedonia. There's probably more democratic potential here for these problems to be solved and we don't have to charge ourselves like this. I don't know where the problem is, that someone freely expresses their political definitions, because no one can limit the political fact and the political expression of anyone's opinion anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5088	Replica, MP Balint Pastor and then, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5089	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Radic, for the sake of the public, I really need to give an explanation. The truth is that there are so-called. Hungarian IDs. These legislations demonstrate the belonging of the holder and the legitimacy of the Hungarian nation, but these legislations are not by any chance the personal cards of the Republic of Hungary, not by any chance any public documents of the Republic of Hungary which may cross the border and enter either the Republic of Hungary or any country. For the sake of the public, I must once again underline that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including the duchy Hungarians, can enter the Republic of Hungary exclusively with the passport of the Republic of Serbia or, unfortunately, the SRJ, still, and the visa, which is not the fault of the duchy Hungarians, is not the EU, but is primarily the fault of the 1990s regime and the fact that we, unfortunately, are still on the black Schengen list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5090	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zvonko Mihajlovic called, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are aware that the special envoy of the UN Secretary General for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Joachim Riker, has called the regional elections. Kosovo and Metohija's assembly, as well as local elections, for the 17th of November of the current year. The deadline for the application of the list of candidates expires on 12 September, i.e. tomorrow. Serbian political parties operating in Kosovo and Metohija, whose national interest is the main purpose of policy-making, are waiting for the official position of the Serbian state, which remains absent. Both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister are silent. What is safe for now is that the Serbian Radical Party will not take part in these elections, because we are 100% sure that we would participate in the construction of the Shiparian institutions. That we are right, it is best to confirm Joachim Riker's own regulation, which says elections can be moved if there is a disunity between Albanian political parties in the pre-election campaign, and that their disunity raises the question of starting the negotiating process of resolving Kosovo's final status and Metohija. This means that Joachim Riker is taking care of the interests of Shipara, and the state of Serbia is silent when it comes to the cosmetic Serbs. I am taking the opportunity to appeal to the authorities in the Republic to raise such an important issue as soon as possible with their public opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5092	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported. Mr. Todorovic? The word has a People's MP, Ivica Dacic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the proposal to amend and supplement the law that is on the agenda today, for the state of Serbia and, above all, for the members of the Serbian people, is very important. That is why I must say that I am surprised by the indifference of the ruling coalition's MPs on this subject, because with a simple view of the assembly hall you can see how many MPs from the ruling coalition are present. Mr. Minister, it's not only evidence of disrespect for the subject we're talking about, but also of you personally. Do some of the MPs have more important obligations at this time than the Law on Citizenship that we are talking about, that is, whether members of the Serb people, or members of other peoples, or, in general, the citizens of Montenegro who have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have the right to remain here and gain Serbian citizenship. Members who have more important topics today really have some problem with the lack of understanding of national and state interest. That you have a problem with the ruling coalition is nothing new. I would ask that your ministers in the government, Mr. Minister, take care when they criticise this parliament, because it is not this parliament that is obstructing the government and it is not the Parliament's fault that it did not work, it is your fault in the government because you do not have a parliamentary majority. This is unrecorded, everywhere in the opposition world is obstructing the ruling majority, only in Serbia the ruling majority is obstructing themselves. You can't schedule a session of the National Assembly because between parties you're persecuting yourself about who's going to be on the State Audit Committee. You cannot agree on Kosovo and Metohija, on a relationship with NATO, you cannot agree on a relationship with the issue of elections, changes to the constitutional law, etc. You couldn't collect most today, although you were helped by representatives of some opposition parties, not the SPS, and given you a quorum. You didn't have the majority to vote to merge the debate. Well, when you don't have the majority to join the debate, what do you have the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for? In any case, you today have one situation where Serbs who have remained to live outside the Republic of Serbia have a problem, because they have become a national minority, unlike the state of the country when they were members of the constituent people. Indeed, there are questions that have been raised here - the question of reciprocity in relations with Montenegro. I must say immediately that the SPS for Serbia-Montenegro's life together, for the brotherly relations between the Serb and Montenegrin people, but since Montenegro voted for independence, we are primarily concerned about the situation of Serbs living in Montenegro. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a third of Montenegro's citizens, at least a third of Montenegro's citizens. In the European Union, hips and distractions arise when any member of the national minority in Serbia complains about their status, and the Council of Europe discusses the situation of the Hungarians, so the Romanian issue is raised, and the issue of Albanians in southern Serbia is raised. And what about a third of Montenegrin citizens who are Serbs on the list, and how many will they be if this law changes? Are you aware that on the next list, it is possible that the people who have the largest number of members in Montenegro will be Serbian people, if we bring this amendment, or if we vote on the amendment that you have proposed? That's why I'm asking you to stay away from this issue. This is where we all come out of political parties and talk about it as if it were our party political programme. No, this is a national and state issue. What does that mean? And we have submitted the amendment proposed to us by the Serbian List, I signed it as the president of the SPS and we will only vote in favour of this law if those views are accepted. It doesn't have to be that formulation, it doesn't have to be that amendment, let what the Serbs from Montenegro are looking for be accepted. I think that's the obligation of this government of the Republic of Serbia, too. Otherwise, we won't vote for this bill on citizenship. Otherwise, we advocate that there is a principle of reciprocity in relations with Montenegro. Montenegro is an independent state in this case. If it has a relationship with Serbia that is not friendly, Serbia cannot consider it its friend. Whether or not Montenegro will be a friend to us, it must not depend on whether officials and members of Serbia's state leadership from Montenegro, but on what is Montenegro's attitude towards Serbia and the Serbian people, as well as on resolving the most important Serbian state issue, which is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. If Montenegrin officials say they are looking forward to having a chance to talk to the neighbouring country's prime minister, Ceku, if they say Montenegro will be neutral about Kosovo and Metohija, should that attitude come to Serbia and Serbia's enthusiasm should be happy that Montenegro is not foreign to Albanians?- I'm sorry. I will repeat again here, in this assembly -- is there any Serbian and Montenegrin history in which other enemies are, other than those who are friends of Montenegro today? All of the epics, the odysseys were made on the subject of the heroism of the Montenegrins in relation to the Turks, Albanians, Croats, Muslims and everyone else there. Suddenly, they all became bigger friends with Montenegrin leadership than Serbs. Maybe they have more money, maybe they're drug routes, maybe they're the roads of illegal arms smuggling, cigarette smuggling and all. However, there is something deeper, which is that in Montenegro, for this occasion, perhaps for who knows which time, there will be a major conflict between the citizens of Montenegro, between those who are close to Serbia and those who are for enemy relations with Serbia. In one I agree with Mr Batic, there should be reciprocity in relations with Montenegro. This means that it is necessary to ask the government of Montenegro for citizens of Serbia who have their residence on Montenegro's territory to obtain, if they wish, Montenegrin citizenship, as the citizens of Montenegro who had their residence, a year or two ago, in Serbia have the right to obtain Serbian citizenship. On the other hand, I think it is very important that Serbia has the relationship it is under the Constitution, which is to take care of Serbs outside Serbia. Our amendment concerns not only the Serbs in Montenegro. This is an opportunity to change the law and if the Government of the Republic of Serbia has indeed proposed this amendment, which among other things was one of the subjects of an all-national declaration and a list of people living here and originating in Montenegro, we will support it. The essence of this idea is that all Serbs, therefore, do not give up the citizenship they currently have, have the right, and without residence, to gain Serbian citizenship. Why not have that right, when it is well known that in the world citizenship is obtained by two principles - in principle blood and soil, or territory. Of course there are more modern expressions, but the question of citizenship isn't you who invented it yesterday, it's a question that has existed for centuries. So, Serbs, who are few, who are divided and who, perhaps, there are more in the world today than there are here, Serbs and Serbia who today, perhaps, prefer Serbs in the world in this world than Serbs here, and even in this parliament, must not allow so much luxury not to be given the right to Serbian citizenship. Now somebody's gonna meet here and say -- they're gonna vote for this or that political party. So what? Well, wait, that's how you came to power. How are you not ashamed to talk about it now? Have you been rallying? You're not under the White Angel, Mr. Batic, but you had other saints and other bishops who helped you, and then you didn't mind hiding under their mantles. You now have a problem with the bishops who advocate brotherly relations between Serbia and Montenegro. You didn't mind calling the patriarch to take you to the demonstrations here, on the streets of Belgrade, and now you're talking about it, some kind of mythinses. It is better for young socialists to gather beneath the White Angel than for young demochrists, for some would turn in their graves. In any case, the SPS will support this draft law on citizenship, if this amendment is found as its component, which we haven't received here yet, in the assembly procedure, but which will protect the rights of members of the Serb people wherever they live. So, not giving up the citizenship they currently have to gain the right to Serbian citizenship. I think, in any case, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should react more sharply to all statements coming from Montenegro. But Montenegro is not the subject of today's debate. Montenegro and Serbia-Montenegro's relations should be discussed much more seriously. Why does someone here think this is an abuse of Serbs outside Serbia? Wait, is it not an example of the abuse of Albanians in southern Serbia when Riza Halimi comes out here and says she supports Ahtisaari's plan?- I'm sorry. No, it's not abuse. It is his democratic right to support Serbia's secession. That's right. Then how come you don't mind? Why didn't you come out to criticise Riza Halimi, but you are criticising those who suggest that Serbs in Montenegro have Serbian citizenship, or not Serbs in Montenegro, to have Serbian Serbian citizenship from Chicago that brought you to power in 2000. You're talking about tycoons. What kind of tycoons are you talking about? Is there a tycoon you didn't take money from to come to power in 2000, that gave money to protect yourself, so he crossed, miserable, gave you money and didn't protect himself? Now, for those tycoons of yours who funded you, it's not worth looking for citizenship, they should be looking for asylum somewhere. Anyway, we'll talk about it when this tobacco bill comes up, because there's a lot of it. We asked for a survey board on tobacco years ago, along with the Democratic Party of Serbia. That's what you didn't want to talk about back then, and now you will, maybe. So relations with Montenegro are absolutely irrelevant to this agenda point. It's about the right of the Serbs to have citizenship. Someone's gonna say they have to have all the other rights. Of course, it must be arranged, and all rights and obligations arising from citizenship must be settled. This does not mean that at the same time, because some are now afraid that someone will vote and will vote, etc., or I cannot believe that someone is afraid that the Serbs from the diaspora or Europe will vote. Well, they're in Europe. You want to get into that Europe, and you're afraid of the voices of Serbs from Europe. Well, who are they going to vote for? (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: For SRS. He won't vote for the SRS, he'll vote for the SPS, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5094	Ambassador Vladan Batic came to the floor, please, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5095	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't deal with the character and part of the Bishop of Mileshevsky, Mr. Filaret, I just mentioned that yesterday, and the propo discussion about amendments to the Law on Citizenship, one cheered minister, said on many occasions, all calling for holiness, Christianity, for forgiveness, for reconciliation, that Montenegro should only be squeezed and squeezed, and it will give way to pressure. It's one of the nadal policies. Of course, I did not deal with the figure and the work of the bishop, as Mr Dacic mentioned it, who, in his time, made it possible for idolaters, ungodlys, to hold a rally, under the auspices of Goran Perčević, under the icon "The White Angel". I did not deal with an RTS TV, then Bastille TV, under the auspices of the recent SPS vice president, holding the skull in one hand, and in the other machine, as a crown proof of the world's conspiracy against Serbia and the Serb people. I didn't deal with a bishop who had anything to do with today's trucks, especially William Walker's jeeps. I did not deal with a bishop who, at the time of election silence on the TV "Politics" left trees and stones at the time of the opposition, praised Milosevic, an idolater, which must not make one bishop. I did not dive crocodile tears, nor did I deal with whether it was correct or incorrect from the government in Montenegro that could not maintain the service in that part of my parish belonging to Montenegro. If we start doing this, then we need a full meeting of this congregation. The problem with us is that everything is quickly forgotten, which is forgotten overnight, like -- we're all ours and it doesn't matter, it's the bishop, in the name of the Holy Sava and the Lord, can do whatever he wants. Well, it's not like that. It's antichristian. It's anti-sacrifice. It's against Orthodoxism. I repeat, since everything is amnesty and abolized here, then they, like him, are excluded from all responsibility and we have a lot of evidence for that. I am proud, of course, to be a democracy and president of the DHSS, and I have no illusions about advocating what is meant to be a modern citizen of Serbia or, if you will, a Serb. They mentioned IDs here, etc. Twenty days ago, with a man who is a Serbian citizen, a Serbian citizen, registered with a residence in Herceg Novi, I traveled to Croatia with a car of podgorje plates. He showed a ID card at the border, which is the rule of all EU countries. He didn't have to show his passport, as I had to show the passport of the previous state, SRJ, but the ID card that was issued in Herceg Novi. We all have some traumas and problems in the past. There they insulted, not knowing who was in the car, in Croatia; they saw podgorje tables, which bother them, because Montenegro and the citizens of Montenegro, regardless of what nationalities, at some point participated, under the auspices of the JNA, or whatever they were called, in those operations for which they were accused and condemned by Croatia. Let's think ahead a little bit and don't go back and forth all the time, because that back-up for many can be very embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5096	Thank you, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5097	As far as the tycoon is concerned, I conclude, it is true that certain tycoons, favorites of the ruling coalition, have been reported in Montenegro. There, for God's sake, they pay, or they don't pay taxes, and this is where they crush millions. It's good to see what their status will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5098	Thank you, Mr. Batic. On the occasion of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic first appeared, and Natasa Jovanovic, a national envoy. Dacic, sit down for a moment, just sit in the front row here, sit next to Minister Jocic, please, it'll be nice here. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5099	I refer to Articles 101 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have no objection to Mr Batic's warmly representing the DPS' views in Serbia. It's your legitimate right. You can also represent Javier Solana's views. We've been used to that for a long time. We have the right to criticise you, too, because you have no automatic right to the truth or to accuracy. Now, for the audience, I have to show something that is absolutely not true, and what Mr Batic said. What isn't true? That he attacked Bishop Filaret for some interview on TV "Politics", in September 2000, for the simple reason that the bishop was right. He knew you were a pig. Serbia is the only country in which turkeys have the right to call themselves Democrats. What kind of whore are you? Ask Tim Marshall, ask Dragan Bujosevic, I use these books of theirs, their reading, all the newspaper articles in which you boasted that you were from five directions, with weapons, buses, with a mass of people, with money, with a cheated people coming, and you didn't come for election results, you came to take power. Of course, that's what we use in court proceedings as crown evidence against DOS. I'll keep telling you, you're a pig. You, in essence, do not meet the conditions to participate in the democratic bloc, because you do not recognise democratic standards, you do not know what democratic assets are. Your dad taught you wrong. Democracy and three lit futters do not go together, as Mr Batic said. He can't. Your conquest of power was not the result of choice, but of force, violence, by order from abroad. Mr. Batic, in those states where it is said that the dominant part of the population is made up of Orthodox population, there is no name for the Christian Party. It is characteristic of those countries that gravitate the Roman Catholic Church by their population, and they are heirs to something that used to be called Catholic action. I don't mind that you chose that name, I'm not contesting it, but, since you're pretending to be very religious, this is a purely political issue, you should probably know what's going on. If you want to know who is representing the Vatican in Europe, then know that the name of the party is "demochrist", and now they appear more and more often under the name "national parties". Therefore, you, left-wings, right-wings, nationalists, who, in the Council of Europe and other institutions, belong to the bloc of the peoples, take little care of whose common interests you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5100	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and the Messenger of the people is Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Mr. Mrkonjic, I am reporting under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is the highest legal act in our country, especially because of those who, while performing during the state-level government, led by the ministries, had to know what it contained earlier and the constitution that we declared last year at Mitrovica, and in particular as regards Article 43. A constitution that speaks of freedom of expression of thought, conscience and religion. I'm advertising article 100. The Rules of Procedure, due to Mr Batic's statement and the fact that he, saying earlier, violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 43, would have to know that, because freedom of mind, conscience, beliefs and credentials is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The 2nd position of that same member speaks, Mr Batic, that no one is obliged to declare his religious and other beliefs. With everything you said earlier, mentioning the high priestly faces of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Serbia, you, Mr Batic, have offended not only my religious feelings, but also the feelings of all Serbian citizens who freely declare their Orthodox religion. So, I'm free to tell you that I am an Orthodox Serbian, but also to warn you, you should know that if you are a Serbian Orthodox, and so you plead, or at least several times you have said that from the assembly booth, that it is not our right to Orthodox Serbs and today's religion, which is one of the noblest, does not preach that in any way we are talking about religious persons, whether it is a priestly face that comes to you, or it is a homaged bishop, such as Bishop Fillaret, who has gone through the worst possible troubles to win the victory for the Serbian people. Because it was not an attack on the administrative border or an administrative ban, but on the SPC, and thus the Montenegrin separatist government has tattooed on the entire Serbian people, you will agree. Therefore, it is my advice that you never, in any place, say that we are dealing with one or this ruler again. Serbs, Orthodox, don't do that. They respect their faith. It is not our job to deal with priestly persons, but to believe in the Lord God and confess our faith in our own way, as the Constitution allows.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5102	People's MP, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5103	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. It's good to see the socialist chairing the assembly. There has been an immediate growth in the democratic atmosphere since you took over Parliament's leadership. That doesn't mean I can't criticise you now, even though you're the chairman. I answered because of what Mr. Batic said. You know what, we can be politically different, but we shouldn't be offended. First, I don't know if it's an insult to you, but even if there is someone in Serbia who doesn't believe in God, and probably there is, here comes Professor Micunovic, meaning, from a sociological point of view, in any case, the right to religion is guaranteed by the Constitution. Mr. Batiq, you just said that under the iconaeste of the wicked, thinking of young socialists. I want to tell you that I, as president of the SPS, was baptized when it was time, and not, as some of yours, after October 5, 2000, for which even the bishops and the Metropolitans who baptized them say they regret being baptized. This does not seem to prove how modern you are, but because it is a belonging to your own people, our people and our church – the Serbian Orthodox Church. I really think you're misinformed. I don't know if we believe in the same God. That might be a question mark. In this way, don't share the MPs. Even if one does not pray to God, but worships or does anything else in harmony with his religious customs and in harmony with his religion, that is no reason for us to criticize one another in this way. I'm sure Mr Batic didn't say that on purpose, because I assume he said that in the heat of political struggle. I'd just remind him if we weren't in power anymore. Mr. Batić, you are now struggling with those with whom you came to power together in 2000, using many bishops, Metropolitans, and even a patriarch, who did not bother you at the time. At the time, you didn't mind the smell of incense, and now it bothers you. That's what Mr. Canak was talking about in some newspaper. It seems to me that he said, I will quote him, "At the time of Milosevic, tears came upon the people because of the tearful, and now because of the smell of incense." I don't think you had a problem with that at the time. You asked him to ambush Sinod, to lead the demonstrations. Whenever it was thick on the streets of Belgrade, there should have been a priestly face, so there would be a cover, etc. Why didn't you say you couldn't have those bishops come? Besides, I'm just waiting for you to bring it in, I'm surprised you didn't do it after October 5, 2000, one government law, and one Sinodo SPC. I think it would be best if the DOS personnel committee determined who would be in the post at the SPC. Perhaps many of you would be candidates for the bishops, some for the patriarch himself, and some for the Vasseleen Patriarchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5104	Time, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5105	In any case, don't deal with these issues and argue interfaith and intrafaith conflicts, because I still think, whether we pray to the same God or not, I'm not even sure if we love that same God equally, that God loves us all equally. In any case, we have to live this life, which we live here in Serbia, next to each other, and you're talking about being some godless.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5106	Time, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5107	If you're referring to some who banned the Church, if you're referring to some who burned down churches, who were harassing priests, they're not among the SPS. Where are they? See for yourself, among your ranks and among the DOS are the largest communists since 1945. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5108	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of insulting anyone's religious or religious feelings, or of insulting those rights that all Serbian citizens have according to such a dear constitution, which voted for a few days, and somewhere still voted for his confirmation. If you are already engaged in the Serbian Orthodox Church, you will remember that wings -- that we are all the Serbian Orthodox Church, that the Serbian people are the Serbian Orthodox Church. Therefore, the fact that someone can say about a priestly person, a bishop, an episcopal, a Metropolitan, certain things, it is neither heresy nor sin, nor is it an insult to anyone's religious feelings. I mentioned something about the bishop, or the Bishop of Mileshevski, Mr. Fillarret. I could have done much more, much more, but for reasons of decency, I have no intention of dealing with his character and work. People hiding behind the mantle cannot be freed from responsibility, from responsibility for pedophilia, from being photographed for Gloria magazine on six sides and showing their golden throne, from having a business escort agency, from trading stolen jeeps, from doing a number of crimes. So it has nothing to do with religious feelings. Such people are also a problem for Orthodoxism, for sanctifiers, and for the Serbian Orthodox Church. I wrote about this rally to Patriarch Paul long ago, he published the whole letter "The Voice of the Public", the title was "Suze in the Eye of the White Angel". There are people who are wicked, not only in the religious meaning of that word, but those who respect no one and nothing, believe in no value and break all the rules. That's what I was talking about. It is mentioned that I performed by order, it seems to me that Mr Krasic, Javier Solana, said so. Gentlemen, at the time of NATO intervention, I, the president of the DHSS, Vladan Batic, filed a criminal report against the then chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal, Luiz Arbur, when that train at the Grdeliska Klisur, against Javier Solana, and against Wesley Clark, was burned. Even the regime's "Politics" published it because it was right for them at the time. I never spoke on behalf of the DPS, nor do I even know the structure of the DPS. On the contrary, DHSS and I as its president have struggled for years to hold a referendum in Serbia and to have Serbian citizens decide whether they have the ball first, not to constantly laminate over a past. It didn't happen, and that's why this is happening to us today. I'm just calling for caution, lessons from these unpleasant experiences from the past, not to make the same mistakes again, because I'm afraid this discussion and this bill lead us in the wrong direction. Thank you. Just one more second. Since RTS has been mentioned, I ask the President of the Assembly to put an initiative of around 20,000 citizens on the agenda, I was the first signator of the initiative, to abolish the TV subscription. That's unconstitutional. We've filed an initiative with the Constitutional Court, but there's no Constitutional Court. And RTS threatens citizens every day - pay, if you don't pay, etc. Eighty percent of people don't want to watch RTS. It is not an idyllic thing in Serbia, so that the main show is "48 Hours of Wedding". People are in trouble, they're in existential trouble, and they need to pay a TV subscription for what they don't use and just because they have an electrician. It's something that's embarrassing and needs to change quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5110	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5111	I will take the opportunity to remind Mr Batic of some facts, these are the harsh facts I will talk about, but also to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of some of the rose things that were happening by the European Community at the time, now, by some continuity, of the European Union. I am fully aware of Mr Batic's admiration for the politics of Javier Solana. It doesn't surprise me. But Javier Solana is the person who led NATO, who signed the decision and gave the order to bomb the Republic of Serbia and reportedly kill civilians as collateral damage without any Security Council resolution. Of course, at that time, the state of Serbia had to initiate proceedings against those who ordered the killing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When the turkeys came to power, why would the pig apply regulations or laws, Batic, Djindjic and the company ordered the prosecutor to give up prosecution, because they would receive at Javier Solana's airport as, at the time, a convicted person, after a first-degree verdict was reached. It has given up prosecution and so criminals remain eligible guests from abroad. That's the whole story. Mr. Batic forgot to say one more thing. A large number of organisations in the world during the bombing of the Republic of Serbia asked the prosecutor, Mrs. Louise Arbur, to investigate the bombing campaign and to determine whether there was a criminal responsibility of some of NATO, in terms of responsibility to The Hague tribunal. On page 29, a final report by the UN Prosecutor's Office's Commission of Prosecutors has been made. They analyzed 42 cases, among other things, I'm going to take two very characteristic -- the bombing of the RTS building and, say, the bridge in Varvarin. With the finding that NATO did not want to co-operate in the process of ice and investigation, that they did not want to deliver documentation, to make statements, that some public statements by NATO during the bombing could have led to some facts, those large experts from the UN tribunal's Prosecutor's Office have concluded that, possibly, a crime against peace has been committed, but it is not in The Hague tribunal's jurisdiction, and there is no criminal prosecution left. So, the report by the UN Prosecutor's Office of the UN tribunal unequivocally shows that the most serious crimes have been committed. A crime against peace, Mr. Batic, there is no greater crime than that. You have received these criminals and their prosecution before the UN tribunal has failed because there is no member - a crime against peace. It's a cruel truth. In the end, since you've finished something to relax the audience a little, I'll end up like that. We had a foreign minister who spoke some nonsense, he says, more than autonomy and less than independence. Neither women, nor girls, nor fish, nor women, and recently we are impressed by Mr Tadic, who says -- we want to go to Europe, but also Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. So, we want those who deliberately advocate to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija at all costs, regardless of what variant, whether with transition or without transitional variations, which means in translation, we are looking for something from our enemy, which is what our masochist spirit wants to transfer to the entire population to, to one whole nation. If he is a masochist, let him close himself in the house, let him call for someone to beat him, let him enjoy it, but why enjoy it all the people. You see the kind of qualities we have on the political scene, and that's only because they are in charge of the people, not the people who came at the will of the people, who respected the democratic procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5112	Thank you, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5113	Just to remind you, Mr. Mrkonjic, in 2003, a large group was so powerful that it denied all postulate democracy in this building. When democracy is destroyed in the National Assembly, there is neither law nor justice in the entire state. The turkeys are deeply contrary to the law, the Constitution and democracy, and that's why we've been limping and these seven years we've had problems, because we're being led by turkeys, not by people who are willing to exercise power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5114	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Jovan Damjanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5115	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to the presentations of many colleagues here, I just wanted to say something about Filaretta Mileshevski. We've listened so inappropriately here and heard it. I believe that a church dignitary, such as Filaret, is in charge of, exactly, visiting his Serbian people, visiting his Serbian Orthodox churches, gathering his people, propagating, right, Orthodoxy. We resent Fillaretta from earlier years, time, what he did. There's a lot that's been done, when we look back, what many have done against this country's interest, and we don't mention it, and it's about our country's global interests. Filaret went there because his duty, all the great church dignitaries, was to visit his people, his church, and to propagate Orthodoxism. I don't see what the noise is about a man who laid down his life to visit the Orthodox Church, his Orthodoxism and his people. I don't think Mr. Fillarret deserves it. He laid down his own life to see what I said, which is the church and the Orthodox people. If we continue to resent such people for propagating Orthodoxism where the Serbian people are, it is terrible for both us and for Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5116	The messenger of the people is Nenad Canak; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Dr. George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a word to be said that we are gathered together, and that is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, because all that we have heard so far has turned into a re-provement of the degree of patriotism and who is a greater Serb and Orthodox. In the law I'm trying to say something about right now, in Article 16. The bill, said: "The citizen of the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of this law, is also considered a Montenegrin citizen who had a registered residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia on 3 June 2006, if he submits a written statement saying he is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a request for registration of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. "In a written statement that someone is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, he will, this way, become one. What is contrary to the elemental logic, with the elemental democratic way of thinking, is that it opens up the possibility that without bilateral agreements with the Republic of Montenegro, for example, and not only with Montenegro, a number of people become citizens of Serbia, while people whose home state is it cannot become citizens of that other country. It was said here, to my surprise, that citizenship is a paper that people who feel like Serbs will prove their heart and feel good about themselves. I wouldn't call it that, for the simple reason that citizenship means a set of rights. In that set of rights, certainly, stands the right to vote. Is it democratic, ladies and gentlemen, that someone decides on someone else's fate in a way that they will not suffer the consequences of their decision? So that would mean that people who live, whether in Montenegro, whether in New Zealand, have the opportunity to vote on how they will live in Serbia. It is absolutely contrary to common sense, because it is a question of who will manage the money collected from the citizens of this country. So someone else, by his ethnicity, should manage the money of citizens and citizens, people who live here and pay taxes here. Thus, because of some quasipatriotism, someone who has not contributed to the Republic of Serbia's budget is given to decide who will participate in it. That's why it's anti-democratic, and that's why such a law can't be passed. On many occasions, the Republic of Montenegro is mentioned here. I'll say it's really weird when people here are talking about some hostile state or some enmity with Montenegro. I remind you, Montenegro is the only, I guess, internationally recognised country in which we, as citizens of this and this kind of Serbia, can enter with a personal card. Republika Srpska is not a state, it is a quasi-state creation. Try to land a plane in Sarajevo, so you won't be able to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina only with a ID card. That is why, you must keep in mind when considering the position of Montenegro, because in Montenegro, thanks to the very leadership of Montenegro, which many insults are being brought from this pay phone, we are in a position to enter only with a ID card. It's true what Mr. Vukic said, I'm sorry he's not here, that he's from Slovakia to Hungary, ie. From Hungary to Slovakia, he enters with his ID card. Yes, but not because of what they have achieved, I do not know what relations between Hungary in Slovakia and Hungary in Hungary, but because Slovakia and Hungary both entered the European Union at the same time and thus abolished visas and passports. It is a path that, if we really want to go with it, we should honestly define ourselves, not that, on the one hand, talk about some accession to the European Union, and, on the other hand, no step in this direction is taken by the Government of Vojislav Kostunica. I just have to correct my colleague Dacic when he quoted me. I literally said this -- we were crying at Milosevic's time from his tear gas, and now we're going to cry from Kostunica's incense. Because of some of us, we're going to vote out, but I don't want to talk about it right now. So it's notorious things we have to consider. For example, the issue comes from the cabinet of Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Do we have anyone from the Cabinette? Let him answer the reward question. We don't, thank you. (Alexander Wolf, from the place: Here, I'm here.) We do? You're from the cabinet, Professor. Vojislav Seselj. Let's at least get someone out of some cabinet to have. So, this is the question, Dr Vojislav Kostunica's Cabin said he was a real problem, referring to the inability to enter Bishop Filaret into the territory of Montenegro, the will of a quasi-state, created in an attack of separatism in the former SFRY, which thinks that it can correct its quasistateness by training strictness. That's what this Alexander Simic says. "The state does not just want to invent a nation and language, to change the letter or create a new church, but wants the existing borders of the Serbian Orthodox Church to be within the borders of the quasi state," Simic told Belgrade media. I have to remind those who didn't remember that the SPC has an eparchy in Australia and New Zealand, that it still doesn't go there without passports and that it continues to go through normal visa procedures. Thanks to Montenegrin leadership, we can and have the right to go to Montenegro only with ID cards, unlike all other countries in the environment, thanks to, I repeat, to the pest policy of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and his accomplices. Furthermore, I will remind you that we still do not have an ambassador in Montenegro, which is a mark, precisely, of Serbia's position, which, according to its environment, behaves in an arrogant and inadmissible manner. When I say Serbia, I mean, first of all, leadership, the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and his accomplices. We don't have an ambassador, remember, on Cetinje, at the embassy where, I remind you, Alexander First Karadjordjevic was born. These are very important things to know, in order to know to what extent, because of daily politics, are thrown under the feet of a historic, more than good, relationship between Serbia and Montenegro, not to mention the rest of the environment. On the other hand, from the cabinet of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, his adviser says Montenegro is quasi-squaring because it as a state has not qualified for civilization levels. A state that does not respect the fundamental human rights contained in UN and Council of Europe's international documents cannot be a state that has a civilized cultural level like other states, said Aleksandar Simic. I ask one question - who has the right to nail Serbia, which has already been isolated, in its more than narrow frameworks, which does not adhere to its own constitution, because I will remind you that Article 11. Serbia's constitution, which is the largest number of parties that make up the vast majority in this assembly, says Serbia is a world state, leading to further isolation? Because of religious problems, bilateral state relations cannot be interrupted, as did Minister Ilic, canceling a voluntary visit to the Montenegrin government over what happened with Prime Minister Filaret. On the other hand, we are in a position to accuse this and such Montenegro and such an environment of being undemocratic. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, do you really think that if this isolation policy that Serbia is leading continues, if this boyic and heroic overplay in patriotism continues at the cost of other people's sons and other people's bones, and this is how it ends, we've seen these games in the past, does anyone really think they'll be able to live in a country where no one else will live? Where do so many people from outside Serbia and from Serbian background? Among other things, because hundreds of thousands fled from the same Serbia and "thank you" that brought her this national awareness of the 1990s and its continuation in the image of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and his associates. There's just one more thing I'd like to say, which caught on to me, got my attention. A story about flags is mentioned whether an Albanian flag has been developed in Kosovo or not. It is not a question of Albanian flags or anything like that, but it is another excuse to make a little more patriot at the moment when it is clear that the current regime in Serbia has already signed Kosovo's independence, and it expects us all not to notice it. Those who already notice it are expected to say - and what we will do when it is realized. What are we going to do, ladies and gentlemen, except claim it's an international conspiracy? Shall we engage the army, will we raise Serb troops to go to Kosovo to defend the sacred Serbian country? Could anyone have answered me when I asked the question before, how was it that when I adopted the Constitution of Serbia, which was brought to me by all votes of the MPs of the then Serbian Parliament, who were present at that session, and there were 242, if I remember correctly, how could it not say in the Law on Application of the Constitution when elections would be held in Kosovo? Not even that authorized note was inserted - when circumstances arise. No one has a programme to do with Kosovo, if Serbia would return to Kosovo and take over power, which means that everyone has come to terms with it, and this is even more of a celebration, which serves only to bring citizens of Serbia, Serbs and all others into a position not to think about key problems. The key problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the secret of government work. We have a government that, first of all, is not worthy of being in the National Assembly of its representatives when we talk about bill proposals. We have a government that hides the contracts it signed on our behalf, on behalf of all of us and all of our children, which they will pay, whether it's League, Radical, Socialist, Democratic or any other children. These are all children who will pay the price of what the government of Vojislav Kostunica is doing today with its accomplices. We have come to the position that we cannot, as MPs, see the contract of CEFTA before this session. To see, say, who are the signatories, we need to inform ourselves from some private or semi-private channels. It's a relationship to the National Assembly. The attitude towards the National Assembly is the attitude towards parliamentaryism. The attitude towards parliamentaryism is the attitude towards a good intention of democratisation in a country. Don't forget that we have no other parliament besides this. What we make of him, that's how he's gonna be. How this Parliament works and how much it stands for true democratic values, first of all, for the public of work, responsibility for the word spoken, for argument, and not the noise, then we will have so many fruits that we will pick up tomorrow in the democratic sense of that word. We don't have those fruits, because we have double standards. In this same assembly, ladies and gentlemen, we had the opportunity to see Mr Tomislav Nikolic elected president of the National Assembly. Suddenly, a harangus was raised against Tomislav Nikolic from the SRS, that it was a disaster for Serbia. That's just a lie. I've always stood up for the SRS to be banned, and her leadership to lustrate. That's when they said -- Nenade Canka, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, and you're a non-democratic group, because you're in favour of banning the party's work. Are we non-democrats? All right. Is the SRS forbidden? No. Then how can he, if not forbidden, be a party to the second order so that he can't act on all functions in society? Then how is that possible? I gave my opinion. My opinion was minority. All of a sudden, it turns out that everyone agrees that we should do it, and no one can say it. It is Serbia's problem with this law, which I am saying, that the problem is that this law clearly shows its evil intention of another manipulation with Serbs outside Serbia, another manipulation that will lead to wherever they are defended, in this and this way, when the country in which they lived was called such or such names, hostile and what I know, at the end of the day, they were no longer in that country. The basic way to take care of good Serbs outside Serbia is to develop good relations with countries where they live and accelerated European integration on an honest basis. It is the only way these people will be able to come to Serbia and Serbia's people to go to their countries, without visa procedures, without passports and without any restrictions. It's the only time this historic moment sees. Every other time leads to new confrontations. Let's see who these confrontations have done well. For Serbian citizens, only three times lower gross national incomes than it was almost 20 years ago. They brought them divisions, the reduction of living standards, the fact that barely 11 percent of the people in this country have passports, and out of 11 half of them don't travel anywhere outside of this country. Now I'm asking you -- does anyone think that at times when the entire planet is going towards the collapse of barriers, the destruction of borders, whatever it is you call it, and whatever anyone has against it, we need to go in the opposite direction, whether or not we need to preserve our identity; of course we should, that's the whole story, but that identity should be part of the general identity of humanity, not being a framework that we're going to close ourselves again in less and less frames. We're left with a group of penguins on ice, which melts faster and faster under global warming. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen. I hope this law doesn't pass, that we will have a chance to get a good, solid and serious law, which will take care of true state and national interests. For the end, I'd just like to mention something, since I mentioned the flags. We don't have a Constitutional Court and we don't have a way to discuss things, whether they're constitutional or not. I was going to bring the flag of the Vojvodina and make sure it was put here. The reason is next. The Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, voted less than a year ago for the new constitution, this one here, which said in article 183, "Autonomic provinces determine the symbols of the province and the way they are used." The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina has its own flag, and that flag is everywhere where the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, and I don't know about the Serbian Radical Party, because there is no such data, but I know that, since the introduction of the emergency situation in Zrenjanin was, if I remember correctly, temporary measures, as you already call the emergency state, forced administrations, bankruptcy proceedings, and you've already done something, however, the first thing that was done was to present the flag of the Vojvodina and to remove the coat of arms of the Vojvodina building of the Zrenjanian magistrate. It's against the Constitution and we have no one to complain to. We have come in a position that even what it says in this constitution means nothing to anyone, and even ministers from the government say, to be precise, Minister Ilic says – for me is a concession contract above the Constitution. Think about it, because if that's the case, don't be surprised when tomorrow some other government, run by some other ministers of this kind, is going to hunt people down the street and sell our kidneys on the free market of human organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5118	Thank you. Replica, MP Alexander Vukic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5119	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to Mr. Chank upstairs, in the cabinet where we receive parties, citizens, in the moments when we leave this room, and I have come down sooner or later to answer your remarks. So, I'm going to try several entries of Mr. Chank to comment in a serious way, which I think are very irresponsible, even though he's making them say in a rather squeamish, funny and convincing way. Namely, what is it that hurt Mr. Chank about the possibility of someone voting for the lists in Serbia or for candidates in our country? So why does someone who lives in Berlin live in Podgorica, Pljeljima or Bijeljina or Banjaluca not be able to vote, does he not care what kind of government that will be? Do you not think that what is in Bijeljina, or Banjaluca, or Trebinj and Pljevih, is equally of interest to each of us, that neither Canak nor Jovanovic nor Tadic nor anyone like them should be in power? They are interested, and how, because they would like to live differently and they would like to live incomparably closer to Serbia in every sense, to know that their queen is led by responsible and serious people. Their relationship with our country is far more responsible than the relationship of many of us, showing their help and support to the Serbian people and the Serbian state through various funds. The Serbian government today does not pay more than 5m euros back to them, and their money has been restored to many bridges on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and to Jasica, and via Morava, and partly on the territory of northern Serbia, or Vojvodina, however you wish, it is the Varadin Bridge. So, the Serbian government is telling these people today -- sorry that you gave money and that you love this country, we will no longer give you that money. That is why they need to ask themselves and decide what kind of authority will be in Serbia. Because someone's afraid of who your voices are going to go to, why someone's worried about who your citizens are going to vote for. I'm sure those people will always be able to choose the best. I think they'll vote for the Serbian Radical Party, if you don't lute us, ban us, kill us, whatever you want, in the meantime. You -- this lustration, the ban, some others mentioned the third. You used to be in charge of hanging, and now it's gone to these from the Democratic Party. Okay, I'm sorry. So, as far as lustration and ban are concerned, I have to tell you that I understand that Mr. Canak says it like that, he's partying, he's doing well, but it's irresponsible, and it's to the citizens of Serbia. First, for those of you who don't know what that lustration means to them -- that means when they can't find out that you broke the law, when they can't find you in the Criminal Law that you're guilty, that you're responsible for anything, and they can't send you to jail, all through a set of prosecutors and courts. When they can't find any of that, they say -- now we're going to form a CK committee and some CK committee of them ten, and some of them ten, by the way, that you know, even Comrade Tito, in his own time, wouldn't put such villains in to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5120	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5121	Please, since I had it myself, please have a little patience, I won't be long.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5122	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5123	They will decide who, according to them, has violated human rights and freedoms and in such a way tends to keep the people who disturb them out of public life. That's what they call lustration. And whoever's telling you this is telling you the biggest thieves, criminals and people who robbed this country, those who took part in the privatisations, read the robberies, all the cementists in Serbia, Sartida and all the gigants in this country. None of those ministers remained with less than twom euros in their pocket. Canak used to talk about it, so now he forgets. He said that some of the bucagies would wear, so they're not wearing anything anymore, and it's no longer a problem, so they're going to steal 10m euros, which they've always worked against the Serbian people, decide against those who have nothing and who can't say anything, and say, "You've violated human rights." As for the ban on labour, you want to ban the entire people and you want to ban people who want to stand up to this regime. People today see that regardless, there was a Democratic Party, there was a Democratic Party of Serbia, it always comes to the same. You always run the same policy. People want change in this country, people want a different government, different from the one we've had for more than seven years, or almost seven years. When you say, in the past 15 years, we've heard that four times today, in the past 15 years, seven years, you're the only one directly in charge. To get that computer, it doesn't take a digitron to add that stuff up. It's a good idea to ban the people, but it never went through. You can ban those who think differently. I see you sent us a bill today on cheerleaders. We don't mind the strictest punishment for those who fall into the field and cause riots...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5124	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5125	Here, I'm finishing up, but I'm against it -- if someone yells, "I hate Cibon," they get five years in prison. We'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda. You put it in the bill of law without saying that it's a secondary criminal law against which we fight all the time, because we don't know what law the judge is going to look at, whether it's a criminal law or a law on fans that you've made. I come to the stadium and yell - I hate Cibona, and they say five years is a little bit, but you get eight years, because you're a ringleader. You're the first one to yell - I hate Cibona, you'll get eight years. That's the kind of law you make. We have, people, a minister who sued two MPs; I have the honor and I didn't even want to answer him. I'm waiting to see this judge, the mother's son, that he's about to pass the verdict. I've been sued by Dinkic, and that's why he wants 10 million, what he needs in one day, to take what I've never seen in my life. He wants $10 million because I said he's illiterate, a criminal, a thief, or I don't know what else. I confirm it again, so let me repeat the lawsuit once again, confirm everything I've said.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5126	Mr. Wolfie, let me, please, just watch your language. I don't think it's correct from a pay phone to talk like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5127	I understand the position you're in, and I'm going on and on and on. I know everyone thinks the same thing, it's not some topic that has serious discussions and conflicts in Serbia. Mr. Canak, we've heard again what we hear every day. When you start RTS, B 92, Pink, when I get to look, from Fox to Enter, there's no difference. On all televisions, I hear your line -- racing in patriotism again, who's going to be more successful in this or what's going to be called, and that's why we're paying huge prices, we're just losing, and I don't know what it's all about. What are you talking about? You're talking about 90s and people leaving. Why don't you tell the citizens of Serbia the exact information, here, let Mr. Jocic say. Three times as many people have left this country since 2000 than it did from 1990 to 2000. In seven years, three times as many people have gone away as for the past 10 years, and then we haven't had wars and sanctions than we've had your well-being. Here are your lines in front of the embassy. We don't wait in ranks, we all have, and we don't like, we have visas, but they don't give visas to ordinary people and ordinary citizens, they don't give them because they want to punish the whole country. You don't think to give up. That won't allow friends of Vojislav Seselj to visit him, as Olivera Miletovic does, so they think they can manipulate him in the way they want. Well, is that the reason, Mr. Canak, that we give up states, is your policy, as well as DS policy, buttocks policy, as we call it, the only policy -- to abolish the state? You say we have the general identity of humanity. Maybe I didn't understand. I wrote this down. I don't know what that means. He has every name and name of us. Okay, I wrote it down, I accept that maybe I wrote it wrong. And secondly, does this mean that after the First World War, not only should we not have the street of Nikola Pasic, but we should take it out of the grave, so that part that's left in the bag, so we can hang it because we lost a third of the male population? Does this mean that all those who lost members of their families in World War II, all those whom the Ustasha killed their relatives, and killed 700,000 people, we should hang because we lost everything in wars? Well, attack our country, wanted a new Ustasha state created in the territory that Serbs held in Republika Srpska. Enough of this talk that Serbs are guilty and Serbs have to answer, and you Serbs back off and you don't care much more about your country! Well, we want to have our own country and be like everyone else in the world and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5128	Thank you very much. Nenad Canak, please. Until Mr. Canak arrives, I only have one dilemma to share with the MPs. Since RTS gave the notice he gave, I've informed you about it, the Secretary of the Assembly has heard from the people of RTS. They are able to postpone the session from 18.30 to 21.00 when they have commitments again. I think it's unacceptable, and I suggest we work until 3:30, until that transmission starts, so let's move on tomorrow. We need to get used to RTS that when the National Assembly works, it is required to directly transfer the session of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5129	In accordance with Article 167. Before I start with this, let me just say that it's really amazing that the public service of this country doesn't have the space to monitor the work of the National Assembly, and that, on the other hand, the National Assembly is comparing the schedule of sports competitions. This, maybe, sometimes looks like a wrestling match, but it's not. All in all, Mr. Wolfie, I have written down several of your thesis, so I will be free to introduce you, according to my Rules of Procedure, to my true intentions. Indeed, my question is not for anyone who would get citizenship in this way, but it is a matter of fundamental right that when someone sets out in the country's budget, he decides who will manage that budget, which is the basis of politics. So, who doesn't pay taxes and who doesn't contribute to the budget, one way or another, he can't have the right to have it. I was only talking about it, and in that sense, I don't think I was wrong. As far as Mr. Vlahovic is concerned, and I was telling him that he's going to drag the bucagies into prison for privatising the Beocinski cement factory, it's probably not the end of that engagement list, I don't know that, but I know about the Beocina cement factory, it's not over. Don't mind me, however, trying to open up issues that are current today, and where perhaps more can be prevented, such as the issue of this concession for the Subotica-Belgrade-Požega highway, that Serbian citizens know what it really is and what all the commitments, financial and other ones are under control by the current government. You used a syntagma that you use quite often - you'd ban the people. No, no one can ban the people, nor can I think of it, because I am part of that people. But banning the party, even if it has the greatest support, that's another. I said it a few times, it's like saying -- you can't ban Dafiment Bank because it has the most savings in Serbia, so, well, it's the most popular bank in Serbia. I'm not talking about savings, I'm not talking about voters, I'm talking about something else. But I repeat, I've defined these thesiss a long time ago and I don't want to repeat them. I only used them as a reminder that when I talked about it, there was no place for it, and now, when the SRS suddenly wants to take over certain functions in society, which are above what someone estimated to be good for Serbia, suddenly, there, the SRS is a party to the second order. That's how people are made in the second order, that's how you pretend who can and who can't be something, and that's against the constitution. That's what I'm talking about. What you mentioned was whether or not to give visas to ordinary citizens standing in line with the embassies, well, on the same phone, I said on several occasions that Serbia, unfortunately, is today the country whose Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, whom the country was made by Milo Djukanovic, the independence of Montenegro, and Olli Rehn, is because it will not soften the visa regime, so it will not escape its population. Unfortunately, that's the situation we're in. It is my deepest intention to make as much contribution as possible to overcome this situation and to make Serbia, as normal as possible, a normal state, with normal rules of democratic, developed society. That's all I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5130	Thank you very much. Replica, Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me say something that I didn't arrive at in my first presentation, and something about this second one, which Mr. Canak was talking about. First of all, Mr. Canak, Montenegro is not the only country we can go to with a personal ticket. The same interstate agreement exists with BiH, and your case with Sarajevo was bad. So, land on a plane to Butmir, take out your I.D. and you have no other problem. Not that, but we're going to Serbian Sarajevo, but I was going to the car, so I was crossing. And you get off the plane, so show us your ID, absolutely safe. But, I reckon, I'm a little bit of Bijeljina, Banja Luka and Trebinje closer than Sarajevo, so don't be angry, and also that east of Sarajevo, because they've been banned from calling it Serbian, although there's no plane there, but I'm passing the car. Unbound for this, on the question of voters, do the taxes pay, do the citizens of Herceg-Bosnia who vote in the elections in Croatia, both for parliament and for the president of the Republic participate in the budget? I didn't notice anyone in Croatia minding that. I have not noticed that they mind when they vote from Argentina, Pavelic's successors and followers, neither Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Austria, or anywhere else, because they want to preserve their national unity and the essence of their national being, that we are now not entering Ustasha ideology and everything else. Why are you defending Serbs from being unique and having the right to vote, to decide Serbia's future? Because every one of these people dreams of having his child in Serbia, and that's why they invest in Serbia, that's why they're returning so much money to this country, and the state is looking at all the ways that they can be robbed. Second, you were talking about the ban. You say it's like saving the Dafiment Bank. I just have to tell you this -- I don't know who you're going to ban and who you once thought or what you thought, but it's not a matter of savings, it's a question of the Constitution and the law. You don't stick to the Constitution or the law. The party with which you joined the Assembly is openly pushing for an independent Kosovo, to secede part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The most open advocates the disseminating of the state unity of the Republic of Serbia and fully behaves contrary to the country's highest legal act. Besides, we don't advocate banning your party or any other party, because unlike you, we are true Democrats. We'll keep you like a little bit of water on your palm, Mr. Canak. You'll have every right. Sports transfers will not take place when Serbian radicals are in power, but the assembly will be a priority. If you enter the congregation, you will be able to express your opinion at any time, and this small part of those representing the congregation majority. So we'll keep an eye on all of you. You will have all our support to expose critical attitudes and we will not lustrate you at any time, nor ban you. Now, this is Serbia's future, Serbia in which political opponents will not be persecuted, Serbia in which everyone will be able to compete with their programme, their ideas, and to win the market. Don't be afraid of the markets. The Serbs will know in the exercise that they are assessing who is best for them, as well as for the citizens of Serbia. Never against the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, they are not and will not go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5132	Thank you very much. Here you go. He has the word of Ambassador Nenad Canak. You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure whenever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5133	Dear Mr. Wolf, I don't know how long you've had enough of Bosnia, but I haven't talked about it. I was talking about principle. The principle is that Bosnia and Herzegovina, as an internationally recognised state of 192 UN member states, has a visa regime, i.e. has such a relationship with Serbia that if you land at an airport in Sarajevo, you cannot enter Serbia as a citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina without passports. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Not true. You got it. Let's check it out, let's go to the airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5134	Let's you two check it out. Are you done, Mr. Chanak?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5135	There's just one more thing I'd like to say. As for the fact that from Herceg-Bosna vote in Croatia, since when have you, Mr. Vukic, advocated the rules that apply in that Ustashaid creation? Since when did you start to look up to Croatia, Mr. Wolf? Well, aren't you the ones who said it wasn't, absolutely, the way to go? You want to look up to that Ustasha thing? Then you look like a Ustasha Eastern ritual to him, Mr. Wolfie. I wouldn't do that. But it should be dealt with, however, internationally accepted democratic rules, which read - who earned, and spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5136	Here you are. He has the word of Ambassador Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5137	I smiled, please during, Mr. National Assembly President, understanding that Mr. Nenad Canak understands the joke and wants to make a joke. It's not exactly a joke subject, Mr. Chanak. The Ustashas killed the entire Wolf family, though, I don't want to play pathetic, like -- now I'm so mad at you, like someone else would do. Even in this war, they burned down all of our houses, all of them, and everyone they could have killed. My father was born by accident because he was in the stomach, not because he would survive the Ustasha knife, because his father and all the other male family members killed him. I don't think we should look up to the Croats in anything but how and how they try to save their own. The scariest thing for me is that I have to realize that we are much behind them, because it represents the greatest shame for every Serb. I don't know what kind of ritual I am to you, because I don't belong to that same church, or some ecumenistic church, for which someone stands. I don't know what kind of ritual this is. I belong to the Serbian Orthodox Church, and I don't think that the difference is just in the ritual, so that today's ecumenists would try to tell us, but I have to tell you that it would be good if we could keep what Serbs and Serbs we have, what's left, in a way that, as you say, I would never say it, the Ustashas do. I don't think we should keep what the Ustasha did, killing what the Ustasha did - burning and destroying Serbian property. I don't think we should do what the Ustasha did, banishing everything that's Serbian. But I think, in terms of the laws that you keep your national identity and your state interests, our greatest regret, our great sadness, the great tragedy of our people, even of them we can look up to. There is no scarier curse for the Serbian people than that, and this situation has led us to DOS rule. I want a lot of success with the Russian team today against the Croatian team. I will cheer with all my heart for our brothers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5138	There is a word for the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5139	Mr. President, I'm calling for an article. 101st and 104th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, of course, to what Mr. Canak has made several times from this pay phone. I'm also aware that this injury has been done. It cannot be made to vomit into the former state, nor do I ask that some sanctions be applied, because I do not think any sanctions should be imposed against the MPs for all that they say about the assembly speaker. But for the sake of MPs and the public, I must say by what method Mr. Canak is used. You see, he puts the subject - elections in the matter of citizenship and then makes a connection, so he says - but the elections should take part and only those who pay taxes, while our topic today is the law on citizenship. When amendments and additions to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs were adopted in 2004, and given the opportunity to vote our citizens abroad, there were no such objections. Again, the tax is a completely third topic, which you will have to solve as a problem with Mr. Cvetkovic, because there are provisions on residents and non-residents, but both are taxpayers. This is being inserted into the subject of citizenship, because it needs to be expressed its political position. I don't mind Mr. Chank's attitude, because it's a matter of taste, he likes sour, I like sweet, and it doesn't touch me and I don't have the right to interfere in his taste. But if his political position is based on a hollow argument, or a wrong argument, which aims at disabling the public, then I think we must intervene, even if we, as MPs, would make a different position, but also deny that argument that he used. In his second appearance, he used another prank, so he tied up the means of transport and travel for citizenship, so he says if you land on a plane to Sarajevo, you'll show a travel document. What does that have to do with citizenship? He tried to insinuate the issue of why the SRS applied for the adoption of an amendment proposing that anyone who feels Serbian and wants to be admitted to citizenship be admitted under the benefitsd conditions into citizenship. Because, among other things, every year a city dies to us, you know that every year we're 30,000 inhabitants in a minus. The fact is, our citizens in the world are unprotected.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5140	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5141	Of course, that comparison with the savings is completely inappropriate. When a large bank, with a large number of savings, gets into a crisis, then, because of the large number of savings, it goes, first, to rehab, then to some bankruptcy. But all the lustration demands are, in fact, the demands of those who would participate in the Miss election, and then say, "The lustration must be carried out, that the most beautiful Tunisians and these others are eliminated from the race, in order for the jury to declare Nenada Chanka to be the most beautiful of mothers."
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5142	Thank you very much. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Mamula, on behalf of the DSS Parliament Club, then, Nenad Canak, on behalf of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5143	The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship regulates a very important area of citizenship because citizenship is a public-law relationship, as we know, citizen and state, regarding status rights, regulation of private, legal and economic, social, in general, human rights. Here, during the speech, a number of speakers said their view of the area and how the area of citizenship should be regulated, but it should be reminded that this area has already been well-organised and arranged for decades. So this bill is fully in line with the 1954 Convention on the Legal Position of a stateless person. This bill fully respects all the principles of this Convention and all the provisions and in no way is contrary to the 1954 convention, which was adopted after World War II, since it is known that an extremely large number of citizens in Europe had to leave their residences, their own state. In addition, this bill is fully in line with the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Persons Without Citizenship, so with the Convention aimed at reducing the number of apatrides, since by 1961, a large number of people in Europe were without citizenship and there were apatrides, so that, by force of unfortunate opportunities, an area that was well-organised. Of course, it should be said that this bill also fully complies with the rules and basic principles set out in the 1997 European Convention on Citizenship and, as I noticed during the discussion, no one disputed that. From the proposed changes, which are not only legal-technical in nature, it was clear that the proponent, above all, wanted to regulate the acquisition and termination of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in line with Serbia's new constitution. Then, to ensure the continuity of citizenship, as Article 15 regulates that, in the sense of this law, the citizen of the Republic of Serbia should be regarded as a person who has acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the rules so far. Therefore, full rights are respected and legal certainty is provided in this area. On the other hand, one reason to make these changes is to prevent the formation of apatride, i.e. that no one is left without citizenship, as the state union of Serbia-Montenegro stopped on June 3rd 2006 and that a number of citizens in Serbia, those who had Montenegrin citizenship, became non-citizens. Because of the aforementioned conventions, we have obligations both to the world and to our constitution to adopt it and reduce the number of apatrides, i.e. that we have no citizens at all, or citizens without citizenship. This content of the laws, i.e. the proposed amendments, shows that citizenship is a voluntary link between citizens and the state, and that exists in all the legislation in the world, and that it is easier to obtain citizenship for Montenegrin citizens, i.e. the situation of Montenegrin citizens with the status of nationals of other republics formerly SFRJ, who had residence here, in the process of gaining and ending the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's very good that it's been given a five-year deadline to file applications and statements, so there's plenty of time for anyone who wants to regulate their relationship with this law. I think it is extremely important that this area is governed by this law, that is, the procedures that are under way will be regulated according to this law when it is adopted, because it is much more favourable than the existing one. That's why I'm asking you to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5144	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS-NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, DS and SPS. I give my word to MP Vlatko Ratkovic of the DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5145	President, respected colleagues and fellow Members, citizenship is one institute, such as my predecessor, dear colleague Mamula said, public-law institute, a legal category of public-law importance, but from that category we extract a whole series of subjective rights, i.e. status rights. So every citizen who is a citizen of a state draws from that fact citizenship a particular Corps and rights and obligations. It's this one area of status rights. First of all, we can talk about the rights arising from the facts of citizenship, which are the rights that belong to the Constitution of all citizens of that state, the right to political organisation, the right to property, the right to subjectivity in legal traffic, in legal traffic, etc. On the other hand, it is one corpus obligation relating to the fiscus, i.e. the obligation of a tax nature, the obligation to serve a military term, etc. The Democratic Party will support this document, i.e. this law, which, in some ways, is being complemented and changed by an existing solution, for several reasons. The Republic of Serbia has an international and legal subjectivity and, by the end of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia is a Successor, a universal supervisor and a previous state union, and from that aspect is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to install in its positive right of change and to recognise the status of citizens of the Republic of Serbia on 3 June 2006. So that's one of ours, in a broader sense, and a legal obligation, but also a political and moral obligation. There is no need to specifically say that this law is compatible, i.e., that it is practically harmonising with the constitutional obligations that we have. It is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, which is no less important, it is in line with all these documents of international character. So also with the Convention on the reduction of the number of persons without citizenship, or apatride, and on the line of the 1997 European Convention on Citizenship. The Law on Citizenship, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship, is only one in a series of laws that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should adopt and thus harmonize its legal system with the European Union system. And the agenda that we have at this session contains some of the laws that make up this single Corps, as a law on personal documents, which is, in the end of the line, both the CEFTA Agreement and the Kyoto Agreement in a broader context. Except for those persons covered by this law, we will be happy when the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is attractive not only for these persons, but also for the citizens of some other countries. So, when both citizenship and travel documents of the Republic of Serbia are on the white Schengen list, when all of us, as citizens of Serbia, are able to travel as equal citizens of Europe across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5146	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP Bosko Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5147	Mr. President, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, before I say a few words about the amendment and addition of this law, I would ask Mr. Dulic, as president of the National Assembly, to call elections for local self-government units where the deadline laid down by law, is the deadline for the existence of provisional authorities. I could have asked this Mr. Dulic, and based on a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in a work relating to the performance of the affairs and powers he has, but I didn't want to use the Rules of Procedure that way, but now, speaking of this, I am asking Mr. Dulic to call the election. It's been more than three months in individual units of local self-government, so that law lays down a time limit within which a temporary body can exist. During the debate on the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we heard, unfortunately, and from the minister himself, that the structure of these bodies is not matched by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that illegality should exist. The most logical thing is for citizens to say through the elections, at the level of local self-government, to whom they trust and who should do it. It should not be extended, because, we heard, again, the minister's election for local self-government will be in the spring of next year. So there's still plenty of time, and the president has the authority, based on the law, to call elections for local self-government units over time. It's not about one municipality, it's about a lot more. I ask you, Mr. Dulic, to obey the laws in the act of your authority. As regards today's topic of the agenda, on amendments and additions to the Law on Citizenship, the SAA considers that this law is not complete, because it did not cover the issue of citizenship to which most MPs consider it necessary. The law, in addition to those technical changes, contains solutions that regulate only the status of those people from Montenegro who have a residence in Serbia. We heard Mr. Minister mention certain deadlines and provisions of the laws governing the issue. In our opinion, that's not controversial, but we don't think that's good. Why? The disappearance of Serbia-Montenegro's state union essentially completed one process of breaking the Great Yugoslavia, launched in 1991, of a state that was optimal for Serbs, as they all lived in one state. That's something to say. In new countries, the situation of Serbs is very different, with the exception of Republika Srpska. Republika Srpska was established by the 1995 Dayton Agreement. The position of Serbs in other former republics, now newly created states, is very bad. It is bad because their status in different ways is denied, from open, to disguised pressures, chicings, inability to display the national specialities they possess. I am talking about all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, both Slovenia and Croatia, so that there is no confusion, both Montenegro and Macedonia. When I talk about this issue, about amendments and amendments to the law, I will not, as some colleagues, concentrate and focus only on the issue of Serbs in Montenegro. This is a very broad question, I say, with the exception of Republika Srpska. Unfortunately, international representatives and mediators, the rulers, as you will call on all those who, on behalf of the international community, are doing the job of that high representative, are also trying to change the status of Republika Srpska and the position of Serbs and to ignore the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, to disabling the Republika Srpska, as well as the position of citizens of Republika Srpska and Serbs in Republika Srpska. It must be acknowledged, whether someone wants it or not, that breaking the former SFRY and creating new states is objective and reduced Serbian ethnic space. The number of Serbs in the former Yugoslavia has been reduced. I will only remind, for example, that, on average, the number of Serbs in Croatia has been reduced from 12.4% to 3.8%, officially. Whether anyone considers it a diplomatic statement, it's a couple of excellances, the greatest ethnic cleansing under the auspices of the country since World War II. Of course, no one answered. When you look at the ethnic map of the 1990 space of the former Yugoslavia and now, in 2007, you'll see fragrant differences. A number of Serbs expelled from their homes during those military actions from 1994 and 1995 -- "Blash" and "Storm", came to Serbia. Of course, members of some other nations came, but the largest number was Serbs. Their stay in Serbia and their status are regulated by the provisions of the existing law. I will remind them, Article 23, which gives them the opportunity to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia: "A member of the Serbian people or of another nation or ethnic community from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who has no residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can be admitted to citizenship of the Republic of Serbia: if he has turned 18, he has not been deprived of his business ability and if he submits a written statement that the Republic of Serbia considers his country. Under the conditions laid down in Article 1, the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia may also be admitted to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia by a person born in another republic, formerly SFRY, who had the nationality of the Republic or a national of another country, which was created in the territory of the former SFRY, and now the important thing is: 'who, as a fugitive, exiled or displaced person, resides in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or has fled abroad'. The status of these people who in Serbia found their homeland, residence, home, future was resolved by the provisions of this law and they got citizenship. It must be said that their arrival and acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, however paradoxically sounded, improved Serbia's demographic picture, as it significantly mitigated that demographic decline that followed between the two censuses, 1990 and 2002. Their position has been resolved, but the question is, what about these other Serbs living in the premises of the former SFRY, in the new states, as well as members of the Serbian diaspora? Why is this law not giving them the opportunity to gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia? It is not unknown that from the countries of former SFRY, the emerging states, a large number of Serbs of different ages are coming to Serbia. The older ones come here to find work, some to find safety, peace, some to welcome safe age, and the younger ones come looking for education, advancement, success in careers. Serbia does not need to treat them as foreigners, because this foreign status also means certain material obligations, above all. No single contract will solve this issue. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that they should receive citizenship from the Republic of Serbia and, on the basis of that citizenship, the possibility that, even with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they can be involved in educational processes without paying the relevant costs, or that our health and other systems take care of them. It is not unknown that a number of young people, primarily athletes, have been identified as playing for the Serbian team. We also have examples in football, basketball, water polo and other sports. So, they consciously defined themselves as playing for the state of Serbia, because, apparently, they estimate that there is a possibility and sports advancement, which is quite logical. The SPS believes the law should be improved by giving opportunities to non-Montenegro Serbs, but living in countries from the former Yugoslavia, but also to those in the diaspora, to gain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. We also support this appeal by a certain group of intellectuals, which is support for the campaign to amend the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I think there's so much here that nothing needs to be taken away, added, just the law that makes these provisions part of the law. The SPS has submitted an amendment that is in the spirit of this text to a group of intellectuals, and the amendment was signed by the president of our party, Ivica Dacic. We expect the government of the Republic of Serbia, or Mr Jocic, as the competent minister for this law, to accept the amendment. This would not be something special, because the solutions proposed by our amendment and what is proposed here are something we think Serbia needs. We don't think that would be against the constitution. On the contrary, I will remind you of the provisions of Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad" and, item 2 – "The Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin". How you will have a better relationship between Serbs abroad with the country of origin unless you give them the opportunity to be citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This solution would not be an exception, some newspapers, since there are similar legal solutions in our neighbouring countries, such as Croatia and Bulgaria. It should be said that there are also members of minorities living in Serbia who have received citizenship from another state, a country in which the queen of the people they belong. The SPS believes that this law should be improved, i.e. this lack of correction, adopted by the SPS amendment or some other amendment, because, as far as we know, there are several amendments concerning the same issue. I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can resolve this issue if it has a good will, because the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia seem to me to be from Articles 145 to 150, which regulate the issue of amendments, the Government is given the possibility that, before moving to a statement in particular, if some amendments have been accepted, it will eventually make appropriate changes to give its amendment to which a solution to the existing issue would be found. The SPS believes that its amendment is good, that it should be accepted and thus give opportunity to Serbs living in the countries of the former Yugoslavia, but also to those in the diaspora, to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. It's a condition for us to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5148	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, to prepare MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few words about the Bill of Amendments and the Supplements of the Law on Citizenship, I must point out some procedural, or formal lack of discussion at today's session, so please, Mr President, don't count on me that time for discussion. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs had to receive reports from the committees in charge before the debate began. We received these reports when the debate was already open and it lasted long, so that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was injured. It is something that is constantly happening in the meetings of the Assembly, that the committees in charge do not do their job properly, or that they do not provide their reports in time. I know that you or, perhaps, some representative of the board will appeal to the fact that the draft law on citizenship is being considered by an emergency procedure. However, I point to the provision of Article 162(6). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says - when the National Assembly adopts a proposal to consider the law by an urgent procedure, it sets a deadline within which the committees responsible will submit the reports, as well as a deadline within which the Government, if it is not the legislator, will give an opinion on the bill. Here, I've been sitting here since this morning, 10 o'clock, and so have my colleagues from the SRS, and I haven't heard that information when the National Assembly set a deadline for the committees in charge to deliver reports on the bill. There's something else I want to say. On the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship, another committee of the National Assembly, which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, had to be declared. In fact, citizenship is also one of the fundamental constitutional categories. Anyone who has any understanding of the theory of state and law and constitutional law knows that the state has no citizens. So, citizens, or people, are a constituent element of the concept of the state, and according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, among other things, is considering the principles of the application of the Constitution. So, the matter of citizenship, a couple of excellances, constitutional matter and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, had to give its word on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Citizenship. As far as the law itself is concerned, what must be said at the outset is that the law is unconstitutional, is neither in accordance with Article 1, nor with the provision of Article 13(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry Minister Jocic isn't here. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 1 defines the Republic of Serbia as a state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law, social justice, etc. So, the state of Serbia is, above all, the state of the Serbian people. The constitutional formulation makes it clear that the whole Serbian people, not only the Serb people living in Serbia, but also the Serbs living in any country in the world, are thinking clearly. What the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Citizenship should have regulated as a fundamental issue is that all Serbs, wherever they live in the world, have the right, if they want to, to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the theory of constitutional law, it is known that citizenship is nothing more than a legal relationship between an individual and a particular state that implies mutual rights and obligations. In Article 13(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to develop and improve the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin. So, from this constitutional formulation, Serbia is the home state of all Serbs, and therefore it should have included in this law a formulation that all members of the Serbian people, wherever they live in the world, and not only in Montenegro, have the right, if they want to, to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as relations with Serbs living in Montenegro are concerned, I must note that in Article 16(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The bill uses the date June 3rd, 2006 in a rather casual way. I don't know what epochal happened that day to be some rapper on the basis of which the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is acquired. Between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, more specifically between Serbs living in Serbia and Serbs living in Montenegro, there is an unbreakable historical link. It is a fundamental obligation for the Serbian state to care for its people, wherever they live, and especially for members of the Serb people living in Montenegro. The results of the latest census suggest that more than 30% of the population is declared in Montenegro and about 2% as Croats. As for Croats in Montenegro, anyone who has had an understanding of history, and among us is historian Nikola Žutić, my colleague from the SRS, who can explain to you if you don't understand something, knows that most Croats living in Montenegro, or on the Montenegrin coast, are, in fact, crossed Serbs, or Serb Catholics. If that were the case, he witnessed the Vatican himself when he named the archbishop of the bar in the Middle Ages. Since then, to this day his title has been - the archbishop of Barski and received Serbian. So it was clear to the Vatican that there are, in fact, no Croats on the Montenegrin Adriatic coast, but that there are Serbs living there who confess Catholic faith. About the fact, too, Serbia must take account, as well as the National Assembly, when it adopts the law on citizenship. We heard today from an LDP representative that it should be seen for example in Hungary. I must remind you that the Hungarians in Romania, that the Hungarians in Austria, that no one in Slovakia had killed, that no one had taken away their churches and monasteries and that no one had falsified the language they spoke. Today in Montenegro, we face a tragic phenomenon that the current Montenegrin government is trying, literally and literally, to act on Serbian history. Serbian churches and monasteries declare the property of the phantom, irregular and non-regular Montenegrin Orthodox churches, Serbs translate into Montenegrins, as well as a phantom nation, and Serbian, which has been spoken in Montenegro for centuries, declare some kind of Montenegrin language, or the official language used in Montenegro. It won't take long, so current Montenegrin leadership is likely to declare Negosa the bishop of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church. Serbia, as a state, must respond to such acts, must lead an active policy towards the Serb people living in Montenegro and to allow all Serbs living in Montenegro, regardless of whether they have a residence in Serbia, whether they have a residence in Montenegro, regardless of the phantom date of June 3, 2006, if they wish to, to obtain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I won't owe much, since there are a lot of speakers from the SRS Parliament Club, I have to point to a certain historical chronology when it comes to Serbia-Montenegro's relationship with a more recent history. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember that the main concern of the then opposition in Serbia, DOS, before 2000, was that Slobodan Milosevic and the Serbian Radical Party were the cause of bad relations in the Federation and that this would be improved on the day when Democrats in Serbia came to power, such as Democrats in Montenegro. In 2000, the DOS, in an illegal manner, came to power in Serbia. As early as 2003, the SRJ has been abolished, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is formed, and already in 2006, there is no more state union, but there is an independent Montenegro. I am now asking you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, what happened to your pre-election promise that the issue of Montenegro, as well as the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, is primarily a political issue and will be resolved when democracy finally wins in Serbia. From the media, from the leaders of the ruling coalition, you can hear them every day that these parties are state-of-the-art. It's a big lie and a big delusion. They're not state-of-the-art parties, they're the States-of-the-U.S. Breaking parties. They have broken two countries, and this is the kind of proposal for a law on citizenship, obviously, that they are trying to break the only country we have left, which is the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5150	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Bozidar Delic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5151	Mr. Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to say that I have not done anything to blame that Parliament has not met in the past few weeks and I call the statement by Mladjan Dinkic that the MPs are guilty of this. It is not the first time Mladjan Dinkic has made such statements, so now I am asking him a parliamentary question - which legislative proposals did the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development refer to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for consideration and which parliament did not consider? It is important and let him stop acting as if the MPs were his protégés in a home for immature children. That's not fair, he's been doing it a couple of times. I would like to say that MPs from opposition parties have nothing to do with when a session will be called, what will be its course and what will be its outcome. Now about the law. We will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law if an amendment is accepted which, on behalf of our party, has several important associations, intellectuals and others announced to the public. So, if the minister, or the government accepts it, we will vote for amendments and additions to the law. What I want to say here in particular, and what is not in the press, I have already talked about it once, is that the position of Serbs in the Republic of Macedonia has been brought to an extreme point and that our country is not taking any steps in this regard. I want to say that even our civil servants in our diplomatic representation, the embassy, above all, are doing nothing about it, so of the 27 Serb military cemetery in the Republic of Macedonia, today, there is virtually none that can be visited without man being ashamed. I ask the question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the parliamentary question, is it known to the government of the Republic of Serbia how many Serbs live in Macedonia, in BJR Macedonia, so they are called exactly how many Serbs live in Kumanovska Valley, so-called. Skopje's Montenegro, and what are their rights? I would like to say that while they do not have any rights there, Vladimir Gligorov, economic adviser to the Liberal Democratic Party, is expanding in the residence, an apartment of 300 square meters, which he left with his father, in this country, in the middle of Belgrade. It's impossible to tolerate. So, when it comes to such things, when it comes to laws like this, it's not only about Montenegro, but it's about all those areas where Serbs once lived in a significant number, as well as other Serbian citizens. There are others who, practically, cannot exercise any right unless they are declared Macedonian. We are talking here today about different issues concerning the Serb majority people, but these issues are also issues for all other citizens whose home state is Serbia, and they live in some former republics. So I asked two parliamentary questions, gave public criticism to Mladjan Dinkic for immature and inappropriate behaviour towards Parliament. Parliament chose the government, and the government did not set up parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5152	The People's Messenger Bozidar Delic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a very important law, a law on citizenship. This law is, of course, one of the fundamental issues of every country. Today, the question of reciprocity is mentioned here. When it comes to international relations, relations between states, this principle is always present. One of the MPs who spoke also spoke about the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Montenegro. Unfortunately, I haven't had a chance to read that law, but I believe that, as for every country, this principle should be represented according to Montenegro. Two independent states that were in such a relationship that as a constitutional act, they had a constitutional charter, all their issues, and citizenship issues should be resolved by agreement. It is clear that Serbian citizens originating in the former Yugoslavia, which have been registered in Serbia's territory, cannot be left without citizenship. As far as this question is concerned, I've had my own experience. Although my wife and I were born in Serbia, our children were born in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As they attempt to enroll in Serbia's citizenship, they are required to renounce Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship. I think it was okay back then and it's legal. However, this law provides other opportunities, and it also opens other dilemmas, which were discussed here by several MPs, and Mr Batic was the first to talk about it. We will support this law, but only in case the amendment that Mr. Wolfic brought here was adopted. The possibility that citizens of Montenegro, who want it, can get Serbian citizenship is not controversial, but under certain conditions. I believe that only those who pleaded as Serbs can do so. All others, who voted for separation and departure from our common state, cannot and should not be rewarded with it, because it would be at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. Also, I think it is necessary to consider Article 27, which speaks about the discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, in particular point 3, which discusses the release from citizenship under international contracts. I think this is unclear if this should be better specified, taking care of the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, primarily, taking care of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As for Article 48, there is no Mr. Minister present here, but in Article 48, in the last position, it is said that the minister edits and lays down the rules for enrolment in citizenship. I wanted to talk to him because there is a mild discriminatory practice for citizens of Serbia in Serbia today. It is especially about those citizens of Serbia who have acquired citizenship in the last 15 years, leaving the former SFRY space and coming to Serbia. These citizens, unlike others, cannot raise their beliefs about citizenship in the organisation unit of the MUP, or the municipality where they are registered, and this, according to this new proposal and this last position in Article 48, should be resolved by the Minister of Interior. I also believe that Mr. Minister and his ministry, and when issuing personal documents, especially ID cards, should make sure that citizens who came from other places don't feel like second-class citizens, because so far this has been seen by a number of codes in that basic document, which is a personal card. I think they should all have the exact same documents. As for Article 52, the final position, which states that the statement and the requirements laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article can be submitted within five years of the entry into force of this law, I believe that this is too long a period and that, probably, in that period, we have heard of some promises today, a new law on citizenship will also be passed. I'd just like to point out, you've all had a chance to log out of one place and report to another place. The deadline for you to do that, when you pick up a checkout from one place to sign up in another place, it's eight days. I believe that all those who want Serbian citizenship will do so in the shortest possible time and that this deadline should by no means be longer than one to two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5154	The word of the messenger of the people is Milisav Petronijevic, and the messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuh, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5155	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given that I have only two minutes, I will try briefly, in several thesis, to confirm what my colleagues have already said. Changes to the Law on Citizenship are, in fact, to give the possibility for Montenegrin citizens living in Serbia to have that residence on June 3rd 2006, to gain citizenship. That's not controversial. The law here is offered by emergency procedure. I just want to get to know the public that he is a year and a month from 3 June 2006 to 3 July 2007. It's been missed for a year and a month. From July 3rd, 2007 until today, it is three and a half months. This is what the ruling majority's relationship to urgency is like. Otherwise, it is good that the ruling majority stopped obstructing the work of the National Assembly. My colleagues explained it. I don't want to waste any time on that. Just to remind you, because these ministers are crying because the National Assembly doesn't work, starting with Dinkic, Djelic and others, the government hasn't asked for a single extraordinary session, and this is the eighth since May. It shows what the relationship is and that it is only a falsification and a falsifying relationship between ministers and the public. When it comes to citizenship, in order for someone to be a citizen, they should first, if they wanted to, want to be a citizen, they should respect that state. Now we have a situation, i.e. We have citizens who don't respect the state, but come to the counter to take a travel document called a passport. The condition for someone to have a travel document, since it's a public document, is that he's a citizen. On the other hand, we have those Serbs living outside Serbia, who experience Serbia as their queen, who they love, who they want, who they want. For these reasons, the amendment of MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS, on behalf of the parliamentary group, has been respected, and if this amendment is adopted, or radically, we do not care who it is, only in that case, will we support the amendments to this law. Otherwise, he did not meet his goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5156	The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, and let the People's Messenger, Natasha Jovanovic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5157	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on Citizenship, as well as a set of other laws to be discussed these days, for example. The travel documents law is one of the vital laws in the legal law of each country. It was a convenient opportunity to resolve the issue of the citizenship of all Serbs, above all, I think of Serbs in the diaspora, as well as the issue of the refugee status of Serbs from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, Republika Srpska and other Serbian states. Unfortunately, this law is only a partial solution to one question, and the issues of Serbs from the diaspora, refugee status, are not resolved. I will look back, primarily, on the refugee population issue, as more than 500 thousand Serbs have escaped from the territory of Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, to the premises of Serbia, which were given refugee status here. How did all this happen? It came on the basis of the withdrawal of one-sided confiscation of citizenship by the Croatian state. According to the provisions of the federal law of the former SFRY, all the citizens of the SFRY had the citizenship of the federal state and of the Member State, the Republic of Croatia. Croatia, through a unilateral decision by the Croatian Parliament, has taken away Serbian citizenship, both federal and republican, which is inappropriate under the provisions of international law and international standards, but the Croats have done so. In modern practice, modern parliamentary states, very rare situations are when citizens of the state are deprived of citizenship. Even the greatest criminals, murderers, the state does not take away citizenship, or deny the right to citizenship. The Croats denied it to the Serbs and took it away. Faced with persecution and genocide, they came to Serbia's premises and got refugee status here. They then tried to restore their citizenship in Croatia and gain then-Republic citizenship. Under the provisions of the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, they could not achieve it, they had to apply, and they received that citizenship in the administrative procedure. A similar situation was in Serbia. Citizens who escaped had to obtain original documents from the Republic of Croatia and initiate administrative proceedings here and obtain Serbian citizenship. What was the problem with refugees? In the need to obtain documents in Croatia and could not go to Croatia. Namely, based on the refugee ID they had they couldn't go there. What people did, they had to wait, wait for better times. The Croatian state, which denied the right to citizenship, took away property and expelled the population, limited the possibility of coming through the inability to obtain Croatian documents and original documents for the administrative process, which ran here in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, we have to say that refugees had huge problems, not only going there; this was resolved through certain friends, relatives, lawyers, etc., it was huge funds that had to be allocated for various beliefs, so the fees, which in Serbia, had to be paid. After several dozen and hundreds of marks for a certain approval, they are derived from the birth certificate, they call it birth certificate, residence assurance and some other documents they had to deliver here, to Serbian authorities. They're refugee problems, which they're facing day and day. Today, in practical application, we have provisions of laws that allow citizens who have escaped from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia to exercise that right in a certain, accelerated procedure, but again with documentation. That is why I am addressing the Minister, given that there are dozens of pending cases in the administrative procedure before the Ministry of the Interior and the authorities that issue approval at the moment and people have given up their demands. Why? Because I cannot go to Croatia and cannot bring what is necessary. They simply endured it in 1991, well, in 1995, well, according to that 1997 law, etc., and eventually gave up all that. I suggest this, that one letter, which has to be made public by media means of information, should be re-enacted after an accelerated procedure. They have confirmation that they have made a request, but they have not brought it to an end, and now they need to meet. Sixteen years they've been here, and what do they have to prove now? That they're citizens? Whose citizens, with refugee records and IDs, when can't I leave with refugee ID?- I'm sorry. Pay huge taxes to the Croatian state, why? He's been living here for 15 years, he's got a registered residence here, and he's got a refugee ID. According to the refugee commissioner's list last year, the status for 107,000 refugees has been confirmed. These people have no ID, they have no citizenship and they can't even get it, they're apartrides and they'll remain apatrides, unless the state of Serbia does something to meet them and solve the issue of citizenship in an accelerated process. People living in these areas for 12 years and who are without property, without any possibility of living, should now be referred to Croatia, to appear there and to check out their residence in the municipalities from which they were expelled, to check out in the military section in Croatia and to meet other things in a certain administrative procedure. I think it's a difficult situation for refugees anyway. I have to mention the process of getting IDs, I'm talking about the refugee population. This is where the former residence is requested, so you have to go to Croatia and get permission there, or check out, and check out here; the same thing should be done in the military department. I claim that more than 50% of the male population of the refugee population must not go there. How do we get that and how do we log out? I'll show it on a personal case. I personally solved it in 2000, with the recommendation of the then Assistant Chief of Interior, and I can tell you that when I came to the counter, with everything I was informed and was informed of the Chief of Interior, etc., I was told – you, sir, must go to the place of residence, check out there and get confirmation, then, go to the military department and get confirmation; only when you get here with all that documentation will you get a ID card. That rule was valid until about a year ago. Somewhere today, and I've been informed that some departments of the Home Office are looking for it today. Minister, please make it clear, by a given instruction, that this is no longer required, because people can't get it there and can't go physically. On the other hand, in order for it to end there, we need to go for two, three, five days, and when you go there, the question is whether you'll come back, because they're arresting us, bringing us in, and so on. Our security isn't safe there and people in that situation are committed to the system -- I won't go, and I won't go, and if I've lived here for 15 years and nobody asked me for a ID card or citizenship, then I'll live on here. Why should he still live like that? Why aren't we pragmatic and figure this out in our own way? I think there are solutions. These 107,000 people who are now being held as refugees are apatrides, left without property and expelled, unable to return, and if they want to accomplish all of this, they are asked for huge judicial administrative fees for documents, I don't know any more which and what kind of administrative procedure to complete. Let's help that people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5158	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then MP Petar Jojic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5159	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we discussed the basic text of this law, unfortunately, Minister Jocic, did not suspect at the time that something like this would happen and that the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic, with the help of mentors, such as Lajcak, Shiparian separatists and in an illegal manner, which was later verified as rounding up a special state of Montenegro, would do what he did last May 21st. Concerned about the fate of the Serbian people, we, the Serbian Radicals, in the Serbian republic, began immediately after the separatism in Montenegro and the creation of an independent Montenegrin state to encourage our Serb people, who, as Mr Martinovic said, clearly and unequivocally, on a list conducted before the separatist referendum, said over 30% that he wanted to identify himself with his country of origin. Everywhere in the world, no matter what nation you belong to, with a sense of belonging to your nation, I guess it's natural and normal that you want to identify yourself with your country of origin. Therefore, this law, i.e. amendments and additions, can only make sense if you accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. We were talking here today about our brothers in Montenegro because now it's a big problem for people who also text us, and by cell phones, they'd say, by direct contact, they've been answering all morning. Their eyes are on you, Mr. Minister, and the National Assembly, because they will now solve their big problem. Since, de facto, separatism and the creation of a Montenegrin special state took place, this way, Mr. Jocic, we will try to correct a historic injustice experienced by the Serb people under Broz's communist regime. Because the creation of an artificial Montenegrin nation began during the Second World War, the operation and the Montenegrin Ustashas of that time, which he spoke of a lot, and in particular he wrote in the dungeon of the Hague case, and before going to The Hague, our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and especially because of the fact that so-called. The artificial Montenegrin nation was glorified under the regime of Josip Broz and that the followers of the regime that oppresss the Serbs in Montenegro, whether they belong to the Democratic Party of Socialists, the Social Democratic Party or I don't already know who, just who they are all the time, and as members of the Alliance of Communists, or their fathers, or those whose followers have, for 50 years, advocated to put a Serbian name in Serbia's Montenegro and to choke on Serbian national identity. They tried to scare every Serb through this kind of pressure before the separatist referendum last year. Of course they failed because everything that could have gone to the polls in 99.9% of the time voted for the common state that day. Because of the fact that many families have fought against this brozomania, the fictional Montenegrin nation, which our president would say -- they can be called both Eskimos, and Martians, and whatever he wants to call himself, Jusuf Kalamperovic or the rest of the Separatist brotherhood, it would be unfair and unfair for a troubled Serb people who remained out of the queen of their country to make us this certain Kalamperovic or someone else equal with a member of the Serb people who seeks our rights. We have to help these people today and give them hope and a signal that this condition will not remain forever. They know that very well. And if anyone thought, if that's what the president of the Montenegrin state thought, and then the prime minister, now the president of the most influential party in power, that he can intimidate Serbs, the situation is, I am telling you from experience and because of the fact that General Delic and I started a series of tribunes, in February of this year, in cities across Montenegro, called "Freedom of Seselj", today, one year after the separatist referendum, really different. The Serbian people rose because Serbs do not give to their church, to their monasteries, because Serbs know who they belong to and know they have to fight for what their right has been through the centuries. And representatives of the Serbian List, which are now in Belgrade and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and nearly 300,000 Serbs there, are looking for nothing more than to identify with their country of origin. You've got a problem, Mr. Jocic, the administration at the MUP. You have a problem with the fact that I, as well as many other colleagues from the SRS, are in a really difficult situation when someone, God forbid, when a child is born, well, there's a problem, has filed a request for entry into the citizen's book, or is it about the people Mr. Buha, who have been waiting for it for 15 years, because without intervention with your younger colleague and associate, Mr. Boycic, these people, and they need it right now, there have been several cases that people need enrollment in the book of citizens to get a travel document, so they can travel abroad for treatment, they can't do it. So, the process of enrolling in the citizens' book for those who applied in 2005, 2006, you have to speed up, to update, because we expect, it is also noted by General Delic, although it has been given this 5-year deadline, that Serbs from Serbia's Montenegro, and Serbs around the world, if you accept such identification with what is the Serbian citizen following the SRS amendment, will want to come and submit an application for registration as soon as possible. There are little known facts about the Serb colonies from like, Bania, Kordun, 100 years ago, going after bread across the Atlantic Ocean, so in America, in the state of Montana, there's an almost ethnically pure city, which you probably didn't know about, called Buk, and there's about 37,000 Serbs living in it. Many of them, these children (in that place, thank God, were built a few years ago and recently painted, Serbian Orthodox Church), know that they were members of the Serbian people and would come to their home state, and there are generations that never came. Not to speak, and that is most important, about hundreds of thousands of refugees and Serbs, above all, now in Montenegro, who need citizenship. In order to do so and to help, first of all, the Serbian people in Montenegro, you must, Mr. Minister, probably not have been in the O.R. for a few hours, well to think about what we are doing today, to do a great work for the future and for the survival of our country, and therefore we, Serbian radicals, were right. Here, for 17 years, whenever we finish some of our party meetings, and that's what radicals do in Serbia's Montenegro, in Republika Srpska and everywhere we gather people, we end up with words -- Serbia is eternal while her children are faithful. As long as the state of Serbia does not have faithful children who want to share with it everything that is both good and evil, and hopefully good in the future, we do not have the right to hope that we will have a strong and stable state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5160	The word has an interior minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5161	I was away for 45 minutes because I had consultations and conversations. I would disagree with those who say we have a problem with the identification of Serbs here. We have problems with possible assimilation and this law serves to ensure that Serbs outside their country, Serbia, are not assimilated. On the other hand, it also serves to give certain benefits to those who cannot enjoy all the benefits Serbia can give to its citizens, to heal in Serbia, to Serbia to care for them and to provide them with all the protection. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this law are in accordance with the Constitution, Article 13, where it is said that the Republic of Serbia protects the rights and interests of its citizens abroad and that the Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin. So it's our duty to pass a law like this. I've heard certain stories here, and I just feel bad that I'm a minister, that I'm not an MP. And in order for me to answer, quite argumentably, to all those who called this law political. Take Croatian law and read how Croats protect themselves. They have no shame and do not hesitate to give citizenship to anyone who declares that the Croat, who knows the language, is even going so far as to use the Latin letter, and we are almost divided here. We are not divided, I will not say, most Parliament, and opposition and positions, knows the essential values and consequences of this law. What will certainly be in the amendments, some parliamentary groups mention them, but do not complete their amendments, because some other members do not delete, in the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will honor Article 13. The constitution and, as a country of origin, we will provide a more favourable position for members of the Serb people, i.e. Serbs outside the Serbian state will have the right to be admitted to citizenship under reduced circumstances. This means that we will not ask for a discharge from the citizenship of the country and, secondly, we will protect the data on the acquisition of citizenship, i.e. they will only be able to be taken by one who is seeking citizenship. I think in this way we are fully protecting our national and state interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5162	Thank you. Ambassador Petar Jojic came to the floor. The Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Rade, then the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5163	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the disinterest of the assembly majority's MPs is alarming when it comes to the proposal for a law on the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of the public, MPs of the assembly's majority give up their discussions on the draft law. I don't think that's good, and the MPs have to make their point, not just wait for what kind of amendment the government is about to submit to us. You, Mr. Minister, this morning when you represented this law, approximately, said that the essence of this law is to align it with the fact that it is. (Dear Jocic, from the place: The second extension is. ) Of course, but you should have said that the essence of this law is precisely the status, i.e. citizenship and the creation of conditions, to enable the acquisition of citizenship to all Serbs wherever they are. As far as this technical harmonisation is concerned, the fact is that it's a legal-technical editorial, as we call lawyers, and it certainly shouldn't be and there's no reason to be the subject of discussion or debate. If every place in the law that says "Serbia and Montenegro" is now "Serbia", it is not controversial. This was a dispute long before, at the time of the signing of the Belgrade Agreement, and at the time of the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. We knew then in the SRS, and we warned, we said we would get into a situation of cutting up the Serbian people. We, unfortunately, have such a situation and now it is up to us, the MPs, to at least this law, and possibly some other laws, to show Serbs that Serbia is the queen of all Serbs wherever these Serbs are born and wherever they live. We, in the SRS, have always talked very openly about this, and when the separatist policy in Montenegro is conducted, it is partly supported from Serbia, at least silently. We stood up and spoke openly that we would do anything for the Serbs of Montenegro. So, we're not hiding that we're making a difference between the Serbs and the Montenegrins. Those who plead as Montenegrins, if they wanted Serbian citizenship, if they wanted a state of Serbia, would not have seceded from us. There is no need and no sound reason for them to be equal with Serbs from Serbia. That is why the amendment submitted by our parliamentary group, i.e. on behalf of this parliamentary group, summed up, contains in one sentence everything that is the essence of, above all, the position of the Serbian Radical Party, and I believe, the assembly majority. So, we propose that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of this law, be considered a citizen of another state a member of the Serbian people, if they submit a written statement saying they are considered a member of the Serb people and that the Republic of Serbia considers itself a state. So, no worries and we don't force our Serbs, because they found themselves where they are, living where they live, not to recognize that country they live in. Of course, they have to do it, but they are obliged to recognise Serbia as their own state, if they want Serbian citizenship. You know, all of this that was happening in these last wars, in breaking up the SFRY, thanks to and, of course, led by the Roman Catholic Church and their pope, has made millions of Serbs in countries where they didn't really want to live and they had a citizenship of states that they would never take under certain normal conditions. But simply, such a situation is imposed and we now have to show that the state of Serbia, as the queen of all Serbs, must take care of its people. Here some of my colleagues have been presenting their experiences. I came to Serbia a long time ago, but not long ago, I don't remember the mood and the feeling of all Serbs who were not born in Serbia. You know, even when she didn't threaten the threat of war, we Serbs who were born outside Serbia were always considered their queen. Believe that this is how it is today and that all Serbs expect maximum help from their queen. The least we can do today for these Serbs is open up the possibility of them becoming citizens of Serbia, with the citizenship of the state in which they live, of course, without the obligation to give up. You know, we will not and never have served those, like, present government representatives, the government of the Republic of Serbia, that minister in the attempt, as it is called -- Vuk Jeremic, who promises Dodik, or Dodik, says, "I command you", as a public joke in front of the people, in front of Serbs and in Republika Srpska and in Serbia, that the first citizenship he has issued will be given to Milorad Dodik. Milorad Dodik will get whatever he wants, based on all the valuable assets he has in Serbia. But we want Milorad Dodik not to have the privilege, but to treat each Serb in the same way. Believe me, there are a lot of examples from practice. I know that, Mr. Minister, when you hear something from the MPs, you always write it down. I must confess that, mostly, the MPs and inform of it. True, I'm not going to talk about it now, but tomorrow, when we speak in detail, I'm going to ask you why you didn't answer my parliamentary question. I'm not going to disturb this debate right now. So there are a lot of problems in obtaining Serbian citizenship, first of all, for citizens who have been refugees or exiled persons here. You've heard from Mr. Buha to the details of these problems. You can imagine the problems that await those who are refugees, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to abolish all persons' status by the end of this year, and that deadline has been extended by two years. Had they been able to leave, whether in Croatia, whether in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they would have gone and resolved their question by now. I can't do it either because they're on some secret or public lists, or because they're old and powerless so they can travel. We'll wait for it to be completely unprepared, provided you don't accept the SRS amendment, and we'll have another tragedy for those people, who have had enough tragedy to live all these years as refugees. There are problems, believe me, ministers, and with the people who were born in Serbia again because of changes to this law on citizenship that preceded them. We almost got one letter, unfortunately, I didn't bring it, but I'll give you a name and a last name tomorrow, a family that has a problem. They have three children, one child, first-born, Serbian citizenship, the father was born in Croatia, the second child, also, born here, for two years now trying to gain citizenship, cannot get citizenship, and the third child, born after this, also has citizenship. So for two years, he's been dealing with a problem like that by someone who was born in Serbia. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, that seriously, you said that you were at consultations, think about the SRS amendment and that you would accept it, so that, as a National Assembly, we would give all Serbs outside of Serbia the opportunity to become citizens of Serbia. Believe it means a lot to Serbs who do not live in Serbia. They may not have any concrete benefits, and they are not asking for it because of some concrete benefit, but believe that for the soul of every Serb it is a great thing to become a citizen of Serbia. I'm telling you this from personal experience. So please accept these amendments. You're telling us here about the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have received a proposal to amend this law on July 6th and we really don't know what the amendments are, what the government has done in the meantime. It is possible that these are amendments that correspond to the amendments of the SRS, but we have to talk as if they were gone, because the MPs didn't get them; when we get them, then we'll talk about it. In any case, I expect from the assembly majority and from you, ministers, I repeat, that we allow all Serbs, not only Serbs from Montenegro, to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia throughout the white world.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5164	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5165	At first, I just need to draw attention to the fact that, essentially, there are no reasons for amending this law, first of all, I mean those reasons that the motionor cited in the light of this bill. I have to draw attention to the promoter and the fact that they've managed to do something that no one on the globe has ever gone hand-to-hand. So far there have been categories - citizen, stranger and stateless person, and you have invented a special category called Jovo Kapičić, non-citizen. What's a non-citizen, please? Can anyone explain to me from the Ministry what a non-citizen is? That's Jovo Capici. You want to say in that category that someone was a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro in June 2006, so what happened happened and now he, in a legal-technical sense, is a person who has Montenegrin citizenship and citizenship of Serbia-Montenegro, which does not exist and lives in Belgrade, and that he needs to be resolved under more favourable conditions on a matter to gain Serbian citizenship. Why? This situation, from the point of view of the existing law, has been resolved. The gentleman in question is a stranger. Don't make up new categories. That's what Cardellus was doing at our place. He made it all up. So we have citizens, non-citizens, foreigners, people without citizenship, etc. Where did you find these non-citizens? Jovo Capici. That in theory must be Jovo Kapičić. These are the Belgrade Montenegrins. They're going to vote for independence, and they're not going to live there. Let it go if they couldn't vote. He was leading the promotion here, and it was more useful for them to do that promotion than to go there to vote. Let it go. You, Minister, are well acquainted with these things. You're the one who took care of it in time. So the fundamental reason for the change in the law is because there is no longer a notion of Serbia-Montenegro. Here's the evidence. Since June of last year, to this day, when you put someone in a citizen's book, when someone gets citizenship, you don't enroll him in Serbian and Serbian-Montenegrin, you just enroll him in Serbian citizenship. Right? Why? Because you applied automation, like automation was applied and when the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia went missing, and you ruined it, too. Just to remind you, when the National Bank of Yugoslavia, overnight, became the National Bank of Serbia, so Zivkovic said – sorry, please, it does not exist, Dinkic falsely betrays money, it turns out it was not false, but it was by some automation. Serbia-Montenegro, further, is valid as Serbia. So that reason for changing the law absolutely doesn't exist. Now, I'm going to talk about my reasons, why I think this law should be passed with the amendments of the SRS, I think it's three amendments. Why? Because the issue of citizenship, of course, is the question of a lasting legal relationship between a natural person and his large family called the state. So it's a permanent legal relationship. Why? Because a small child is seeking protection from his family, and each individual, as a citizen of a country, is seeking protection from his country; the state, by the Constitution, has an obligation to protect its citizens. Depending on the democratic policy of individual countries, they create their laws on citizenship. So we have restrictive laws, where it's very difficult to gain the citizenship of a state, and we have liberals. Those who need labour, such as Germans, Swiss, Swedish, etc., tend to be more liberal because they do not want their territory to be empty. They want to increase the population of their people in various ways and do so through citizenship. We in Serbia, I said this morning, we lose one of the Vlasotins every year. Lastly, it seems to me, five years, according to statistics, 37,000 people die more than they are born in Serbia. We as a state are interested in having as many citizens as possible, as many citizens of the Republic of Serbia as possible. Is this law, with the amendments to the SRS, fulfilling that function? It's filling. What do we want? We want anyone who wants to be a Serb and who feels Serbian, who has a Serbian background, regardless of where he lives, to get Serbian citizenship as another citizenship. That's the possibility we're giving. If that face will use it, it's up to him. Why are we doing this? Because all Serbs in the world view Serbia as their own country, as their family, as their queen, as their own property; and the third, and fourth, and the fifth generation of the diaspora sees Serbia as its queen. How does that manifest? Here, again, another example, familiar to you. In 2001, the foreign minister was a Svilanovic, before that he was on billboards – 'who is this man'. He organized something for the children of diaspora for the first year. The children gathered, she was in some camps, and when they asked him what his impressions were, he said, a disaster. Why? He says -- all the supranationalists, they'd just like to play "the hammer," just to sing Serbian songs and just to get acquainted with Serbian customs. The man expected that our little kids from Chicago would come here looking for what they had every day in Chicago. Well, that's boring for them. They want to see what their speeches are, where their grandfathers are from, etc. They cultivate that tradition, cultivate love for Serbia. These representatives of ours, when they play abroad, play more because of those people out there, abroad, than they play for us here. A few days ago, I was in Brussels, at a match between Belgium and Serbia. There, 200 Serbs gathered from all sides cheered for Serbia for 150 minutes, you know what words -- Kosovo is Serbia. He wants a man to be a Serb, and he needs to be able to do that. I have a friend who doesn't want to be Armenian, and he's Armenian, he wants to be Serbian. You also have that Jatras, who has accepted, even, Orthodoxism, because a man wants to be a Serb. Why make it impossible for these people to gain Serbian citizenship? It's generally about regulations that need to regulate citizenship. Minister, I have brought you here a law of Republika Srpska, which regulates the employment of foreign citizens in Republika Srpska. Just to remind you why citizenship is important. This law, and our rule on the employment of foreigners long ago has not changed, which has been done according to international standards, also allows for the following: for a foreigner to stay in a country, he must have a valid work permit in Republika Srpska to have an approved stay. His employment permit is issued by the Employment Office, but remember this sentence: a branch cannot issue a work permit if there are persons on unemployment records who meet job conditions and who accept a particular job. A citizen has an advantage over a stranger. Only foreign investment has some tolerance in the design of the working relationship of foreigners. Remember, citizenship is not a meaningless thing. We ask that anyone who feels like a Serb, who signs a request and wants to be a Serb, acknowledges citizenship, is among other things because of its protection. You know how our citizens here react when they hear -- in that and that responsible state office is a citizen of some former republic, not the Republic of Serbia, who is open to separatism. Excuse me, my position is: the declaration of independence of Montenegro is contrary to Serbian national interests. It may not like Chadi, Baby and these, but it is my view that it is contrary to Serbian national interests, and time shows that it is indeed true. In the Republic of Montenegro, 32% of citizens who declare themselves Serbs are not even a national minority, have no newspapers, have no TV, have no radio. Are they subject to positive discrimination regarding employment? The whole, as they say, "north" doesn't work, but it matters whether you're Milov or not. If you're Milov, you got everything. Let me just remind you what happened in 2000. They hired 25,000 people in their own special police force, and unaccountable, and those who didn't serve the army. How? From the most respected houses they hired a male child to be under uniform, to have some receipts, to vote for Milo Djukanovic and his party. Serbia must not allow itself to be manipulated in the world by Serbs, and the best instrument to protect Serbs is to recognise their Serbian citizenship. Because when someone is recognised Serbian citizenship, then our diplomatic and consular representation has an obligation to intervene on behalf of the Republic of Serbia in order to protect the rights and interests of our citizens abroad. Let us open the possibilities of our law, and then leave the individual alone to choose whether he will respect his origin, whether he will respect some of his feelings or current interests, which can sometimes be based on "let me sign someone's housekeeper." When the amendments are debated, I will explain to you in more detail why these amendments need to be accepted. I have to draw everyone's attention that the reason the government has stated doesn't exist. There is a national and state-of-the-art interest of the Republic of Serbia to liberalise conditions for the rapid acquisition of citizenship. Secondly, if the state believes that it takes great care of itself, which a large number of persons must take care of both abroad and in the country, as you take care of the existing one, you will also take care of the future. You won't get too much of a commitment. You take more care of how to get rid of some assistant ministers' papers, to stay in the ministry where they were found, where they work. I think that some lawyer, Zunic or Zugic, at the finance ministry, is a Montenegrin man, he doesn't care, went to vote for independent Montenegro, lives in Belgrade; he has temporary work here to take advantage of all the benefits. He has no love for Serbia, no regard for Serbian interests. So, out, please, category "non-national", called Jovo Kapičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-11-0.u5166	Because there's no TV transmission, we'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
