ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 175 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 106 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that none of the MPs has sent notice of a preventee from attending the session. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Monday, 18 June 2007, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure, as well as for a day which, pursuant to Article 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure have not been established as the day on which the National Assembly meetings are held, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda of acts, which, in its request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have been set up by 129 MPs. You have received the resignation of MP Dejan Jovanovic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (2), point 2 and Article 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the time of his election, has expired, has been chosen by MP Dejan Jovanovic, elected from the election list G17 plus - Mladjan Dinkic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. I'm taking a 60-minute break, so that the Administrative Committee and the Republic Election Commission can hold their meetings. We continue work at 13.05 p.m. [[After break – 13.20]] After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of Prime Minister Aleksandra Gajic, elected from the election list G17 plus - Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Alexander Gajic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. You were presented the minutes of the 2007 session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 30 May 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, held on 30 May 2007. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am putting to the vote the minutes of the 2007 National Assembly of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 30 May 2007. For 127, no one, with abstentions, voted four, out of 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2007 National Assembly session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 30 May 2007. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, which was convened at the request of 129 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Bill on the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals on granting consent to the financial plans of compulsory social security organisations for 2007: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Employees, (b) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Farmers, (v) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Activities, (g) the National Employment Service, (d) the Republic Health Insurance Office, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, which was submitted by the Government, 7. A Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of the Protector of Citizens, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 8 / 8 Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Commissioner for Public Information, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. National MP Suzana Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of this session, the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 June 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, they did not vote two out of 132 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Kolundži, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 140(2) and Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda and a joint single search on points 7 and 8 of the agenda. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Three out of 132 MPs voted for 129. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Before moving to work on the agenda, the People's MP Verica Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2736	Ladies and gentlemen, my intervention in the Rules of Procedure is precisely the beginning of today's session. Given that, on the proposal of the president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, it has been accepted that I no longer know how many points of the agenda in the debate, to discuss it unitedly, my proposal is to increase the time for discussion, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that MP groups have double time to discuss such united agenda points. Of course, we think it is unacceptable and inappropriate to bring together a debate on this many agenda points, given the fact that the time for discussion of the Rules of Procedure is limited anyway. It is amazing that the majority of parliaments agree to make it impossible for MPs who intend to discuss all these drafts of the law, particularly the budget law, which is very important for each citizen of Serbia. So it's unacceptable for us to suggest that all of this be united. We know that your intention is to make it impossible for the MPs to say all their remarks on the draft budget and on the proposals of certain ministries, but if you are someone who swears to democracy, at least in your name it says that you are democratic parties, then it would really be, at least, appropriate to allow MPs to say what they have to say. If you accept this proposal, then we will have one normal debate about the budget, and if you do not accept it, we will have to use the Rules of Procedure and all business opportunities to call every minister, first of all to ask you, Mr Minister, where is your Prime Minister, because it is amazing and unacceptable that the National Assembly is discussing the budget with six months of delay. You who are now the government are to blame for the state's functioning without budget. Of course, you'll hear about what we have to tell you about the temporary funding extended under the old law, without the law. There were various statements from your colleagues who were at the Ministry at the time, and some of them remain today. That is why it is necessary for this session to be attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Dulic, my proposal is that you insist on inviting the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to this session and my proposal, which you should put to the vote, is that the time for the debate should be extended, i.e. we have double time in relation to this foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Of course, my proposal is absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2737	Thank you very much. Under Article 94(3), the President, or representative of the parliamentary group, shall have the right to propose for a longer period of debate for parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1(1). The National Assembly shall decide on this proposal without delay, provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point out Article 94(3). Rules of Procedure. Since we have a democratic atmosphere in the parliamentary group, I did not know that the People's MP, Verica Radet, would propose an extension of time, but I am now fulfilling that formality from the Rules of Procedure. So, the SRS parliamentary group is asking us to vote, without a search, on the fact that the time of debate on the most important law that the Assembly adopts in the year is extended double. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2739	I am voting on the proposal of the president of the SRS Parliament Club to extend the time for discussion in principle. For 212, of a total of 212 MPs. I understand that we have accepted the proposal of the president of the SRS Parliament Club. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure and Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the national features of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been one of the biggest incidents Thursday since the Republic of Serbia has its national mark. In fact, a red-and-white flag of the Ustasha state was established on the building of the Republic of Serbia. Is something wrong, sir? What's funny to you, for all the citizens of Serbia and for those of you who need to respect the Constitution, is regrettable. So journalists and photographers who took pictures of the Croatian flag on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building were built, of course, along with the entire Serbian public, by the fact that the Serbian trio with the Serb coat of arms was not found, as a national mark, on the National Assembly building. Mr. President, since it is a well-known thing, and it is your intimate right to plead, in terms of your national commitment, because you are a child from a mixed marriage, your mother is a Serbian and your father is a Croat, that your national definition is Yugoslav, which is your thing, however, when it comes to... You'd better hit your head, see if there's anything in there, or if it's empty, that's better, because there's no sense of belonging to the state or the people in your empty head, and there's no constitution. You, ma'am, chewing gum, and that "trio fantastico" of yours, all three of you are like birds, pounding like an open window, read the Constitution well and what it says in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2741	I ask all MPs to listen to Miss Jovanovic. You spent two minutes. You have one minute, I'm just asking you to adjust your adjudication by the Rules of Procedure to the fact that you didn't even say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, nor did you read the member who was injured, nor did you speak in that context, and I ask you to adapt your discussion to the fact that you are vice president of this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2742	The fact that I am a People's MP and vice president gives me even more the right to, as a responsible politician and responsible MP of the Serbian Radical Party, ask you for an answer. If the secretary hasn't told you or you haven't heard, the Rules of Procedure are 226, that's what I told you at the beginning and I'm asking you for an explanation. So how is it possible that the state mark of the republic, or state, that occupied one part of the territory of the Serbian state and exiled over half a million of our countrymen, left in the building of the National Assembly? I don't know why you, Mr. President, don't use your authority and influence, I think he's a member of 217. Rules of Procedure, to this dissipating parliamentary group of the Democratic Party. It's the easiest thing to do when you don't know anything, to make a noise, to make an arlaucate. Let's open a serious debate and discuss where we ladies and gentlemen are. I know I came from Kragujevac this morning, to be in Belgrade, on the street of Serbian rulers, in the building of the National Assembly... (President: You're out of time. ) You shouldn’t be nervous, it’s a failure, first of all, your service or service that you don’t manage properly, because people have given an explanation that they’ve been kidnapped, that they don’t know how that mistake happened. Mr. President, I ask you to answer and I warn you that in Serbia in the National Assembly, such an incident must never happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2743	I'll give you an answer right away. I have no idea what this is about. I don't know if Thursday she won the National Assembly building any other flag than the Serbian flag. I believe that the building of the National Assembly of the Serbian State should have Serbian flags, and so it will be as long as I am here and, I believe, for hundreds and thousands of years in the future. If this happened to the service's fault, we can check and you'll get information on time, although I doubt something like that happened, because I don't know that there's a Croatian flag in the House and in the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2744	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 88. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, determines that at the beginning of the work of the National Assembly, every day when the National Assembly of Meetings, the President of the National Assembly informs the National Assembly of MPs who have been prevented from attending meetings of the National Assembly, as well as of who was invited to the session. At the same time, the president of the National Assembly gives the necessary explanation regarding the work on the session and other issues. Mr. President, I would ask you to answer whether, in line with the discussion I held as representative of the LDP parliamentary group with you on Friday, you informed the Prime Minister and his cabinet that we expect to participate in the debate on the 2007 budget and if their absence here means that they do not have time for parliament because of some other obligations or that they did not understand you. I think this is a very important question. I appreciate the ministers present, but despite all your good intentions, you're going to have a hard time answering those questions that we want to ask the Prime Minister first, let's say, Minister of Education, he needs us to approve the cost of 90 billion, the Minister of Defence 63 billion, the Minister of Interior 45 billion. We are expected to vote in June for a budget of nearly 600 billion dinars, in Europe's poorest country at the moment, and this debate cannot be serious unless the Prime Minister and those ministers who are necessary for this debate are involved in a normal manner. So, Mr. President, I would ask you to let us know if Vojislav Kostunica has refused to come to this session or has not been informed that we are today discussing a budget of 600 billion dinars, which is a very important issue, and I think we will insist on that during the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2745	The 88th article says: "At the beginning of the work of the National Assembly, every day when the National Assembly is sitting, the President of the National Assembly shall inform the National Assembly of the MPs who are prevented from attending the meeting of the National Assembly, as well as of who was invited to the meeting. "Every session of the National Assembly is called neatly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has today sent its authorised representative here, and you can see here, in the first place, the minister from that government. The prime minister of the government, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, did not inform me of the reasons for the prevention of arrival. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2746	Of course, I'm pleased with your answer, I don't think you can influence Mr. Kostunica in that way, but I would ask you to inform Parliament during today's debate on his response. So I ask you, as president of the assembly, to invite the Prime Minister to join the budget debate, as well as representatives of his cabinet, which are not currently in the O.R. Ministers who are here, led by the finance minister, of course we respect, we appreciate them, we will participate in this debate, but we expect Mr. Kostunica to sit in the front row and explain the budget for which we should vote. If he as Prime Minister has nothing to say about the budget, then he doesn't deserve to be Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2747	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2748	On the occasion of the interpretation of this Article 88. Rules of Procedure, very short. Those who know, who can interpret very nicely what it says in the Law on Government and the Law on Ministry, can read that the government can appoint an authorised representative for parliament sessions. The Prime Minister is not an in-house government body, and at his session, she empowers those who will sit on behalf of the Government in the National Assembly and communicate with the MPs when it comes to the submission of individual legislative proposals, which includes the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2749	In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is ten hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate is ten hours in principle for parliamentary groups, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group – 3 hours, 4 minutes and 12 seconds; DS – 2 hours, 33 minutes and 12 seconds; DSS – 1 hour and 58 minutes; G17 plus – 45 minutes; the SPS – 38 minutes and 24 seconds, the Liberal Democratic Party – 26 minutes and 24 seconds, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians – 14 minutes and 24 seconds, Vojvodina MPs – 12 minutes, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group of 10 minutes. We move to a common principled search 1 - 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007. THE YEAR (with financial plans of the Obligatory Social Insurance Organisation for 2007) AND THE AMENDMENTS AND FOLLOWING OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION INVESTIGATION LAW, ACCISIS, PORES PROCEDURE AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENT AND THE CARIN CARIFYING PROCESS According to Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a joint principle search. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2750	Mr. President, I'm calling for article 101. I think that article explains the demeaning of MPs. In this double minute, you may not have met in the number of minutes, but you said that the DSS parliamentary group has as many minutes; I am interested in how many 14 New Serbia MPs have minutes in this assembly, because I do not know that there is a DSS MP club, and I know that there is a DSS-New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. That's what I'm saying because of the people sitting here, that's living people, there are 14 of them, and because of the media that keep on saying, above all, the Belgrade media, that the government was formed by three parties: DSS, G17 and DS. I must say, and because of the public and all those present here, the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Dr Vojislav Kostunica, formed four parties, and the fourth party is New Serbia. As long as you speak this way, deliberately or intentionally, I will come out here to remind you of that, all of you present and all the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2751	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. Of course it's a coincidence. So I am correcting, DSS - NS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, who counts 47 MPs, the total time for the debate of the parliamentary club where two political parties sit is 1 hour, 50 minutes and 48 seconds. Thank you very much. Does the government's authorised representative, Minister Cvetkovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2752	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a draft budget for the Republic of Serbia for 2007 before you six months later. The budget proposal concerns the whole year, which means it includes the revenue and expenditure realised in the past part of the year, as well as the revenues and expenditures planned by the end of 2007. The draft budget of the Republic of Serbia is based on the following: first, on the macroeconomic developments achieved in the past part of 2007 and on expected growth by the end of 2007, then on the budget achieved in the first five months of 2007 and finally on the planned fiscal policy in the second half of 2007. The macroeconomic developments in the past period, including the past part of this year, can be estimated as favourable. In the past part of 2007, high growth in economic activity, low inflation, high export growth and foreign direct investment has been achieved. According to preliminary data from the Republic Statistics Institute, the real growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2007 is estimated at around 7% compared to the same quarter of the previous year. Inflation was only 4.4% in the first five months of this year compared to the same period of the previous year, the lowest reported inflation in the last few decades. The growth of the dollar value by nearly 50% compared to the previous year is a reliable signal of strengthening the competitiveness of the Serbian economy. Foreign direct investment was relatively high, despite the political uncertainty that characterized the first few months of this year, with a rise in greenfield investment in total foreign investment. The exception to these favourable movements in the past part of the year is the growth of the external trade deficit. It is estimated that the deterioration of Serbia's external trade position in the past part of 2007 is due to the expansion of domestic aggregate demand compared to the possibilities of the Serbian economy. The growth of domestic demand in the past part of 2007 was generated by fiscal expansion in the fourth quarter of 2006, and then by the accelerated growth of earnings led by growth in the public sector. Finally, the growth of domestic and foreign loans since the beginning of 2007 has further contributed to increasing domestic demand and thus to the external trade deficit. In the second half of 2007, positive macroeconomic trends are expected to continue and this high growth in gross domestic product, low inflation, continued high export growth, as well as significant growth in domestic and foreign investments. Real growth in gross domestic product is estimated to be 5.9% throughout 2007 and price growth is estimated to be low to 6.5%. Also, high import and salary growth is expected, but somewhat slower than in the first part of the year. The biggest contribution to achieving the projected rate of growth of gross domestic product in 2007 on the side of demand will be the demand of the population, the investment demand of the economy, as well as the accelerated growth of exports, while on the side of offers of gross domestic product will support the growing investments made during this and previous years. A significant contribution from industry, construction, trade and other services to the growth of gross domestic product is expected in the economy sectors. The achieved and projected macroeconomic developments in 2007 are a reliable parameter based on which the revenues and expenditures of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget have been projected. Given that the 2007 draft budget for the Republic of Serbia is known for the first five months of the year, results achieved during this period are included in the budget, and trends from the first five months have been used in making projections for the rest of the year. The achieved results of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the first five months of this year can be estimated as relatively favourable. Total revenues are nominally higher compared to the same period of the previous year by 38%, while real growth is 31.1%. In the context of total revenues, high growth was achieved by tax revenues - 23.1%, actually 16.9%, and non-tax revenues - 234 nominally and 217.2% realistically, respectively. The dominant contribution to the growth of non-tax revenues in the first five months of this year gave revenue from a third mobile phone license of around 25.5 billion dinars. In the same period, expenditure was nominally increased by 12.4%. As part of the expenditure, capital expenditures were the fastest to rise, which increased by as much as 122.6%, while current expenditures increased by 7.8%. The rapid nominal and real growth of tax revenues in the past part of the year, without the tax rates being increased compared to last year, is the result of the impact of a larger number of factors. The basic growth generator of tax revenues is relatively favourable movements in economies that are synthetically reflected through a high rate of growth of gross domestic product: realistically, as I said so far, around 7%, and nominally even over 10%. The reason for the rapid growth of tax revenues, among which consumption taxes dominate, namely VAT and excise duties, as well as customs duties, since the growth of gross domestic product is in strong growth of domestic aggregate demand. Relatively slow expenditure growth in the previous part of the year was due to the temporary financing regime, but also to the impact of seasonal factors due to which the government's spending in the first part of the year is normally lower than in the second part of the year. The scope and structure of the proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia reflects the fiscal policy the government intends to implement in the second half of this year. Compared to the 2007 draft budget, the government sent the Assembly a package of tax laws that continue tax reforms starting in 2001. The scope and structure of the expenditure of the budget are set out: (a) the priorities of the current Government; (b) the legal solutions that came into force during this year and (c) the contractual commitments made by the previous government. The most important changes in the tax system from the point of view of the Serbian budget concern value added tax and excise duties. The most important changes to the VAT law are to increase the VAT rate from two to four million dinars and reduce VAT rates to personal computers from 18% to 8%. The most important changes to the Excise Act are the abolition of excise duties on non-alcoholic beverages from imports and fruit juices; excise duties on domestic and import cigarettes are equated, with an increase in customs duties on import cigarettes in accordance with the CEFTA Agreement; the excise duty rate is reduced from 40% to 30%; the excise duty on liquid oil gas is imposed at six dinars per kilogram from 1 July 2007, which is increased to 10 dinars from 1 January 2008, and is shifted from half-year to the annual indexation of specific excise duties. The proposed tax code package also contains significant changes within the property tax. The general rate of sales of absolute property rights has been reduced to 2.5%, while tax exemption is introduced when buying the first apartment. The proposed changes in tax regulations contain focused social and development incentives. The proposed reduction of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to 2%, as well as the exemption from the tax liability on the basis of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and VAT in the purchase of the first apartment, aims to reduce the cost of real estate traffic, especially for families who buy the first apartment. The reduction of VAT on personal computers should contribute to increasing the availability of information technology to the widest layers of population in line with the government's strategic definition of building a modern information society. The introduction of a liquid auto-gas excise is justified by the fact that the users of this energy should participate in financing the maintenance of the road network, as other traffic participants do. At the same time, while respecting the ecological advantages of liquid auto-gas compared to other energy, diesel and gasoline, the excise duty is set at a significantly lower level compared to the excise duties applied to them. The proposed changes in excise duties and customs duties on tobacco products are the result of commitments made under the CEFTA agreement, which are operationalised through the Action Plan adopted by the previous government. The proposed suspension of excise duties on imports of non-alcoholic beverages and fruit juices is to bring Serbia's tax system into line with the requirements of the World Trade Organisation and the EU on equal tax treatment of domestic and foreign products. Serbia's budget expenditure for the second half of 2007 was planned in part in line with the government's development and social priorities. The most important change in the economic structure of expenditure is the increase in the share of public investment expenditure in total public expenditure. Viewed by functional classification, the participation of expenditure on health, education, science and the environment has been increased. However, a significant part of the expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the second half of the year was determined by protocols, contracts, as well as constitutional and legal solutions that were made and entered into force before the government was formed. Respecting the principle of legal certainty, Serbia's budget design respects all the contractual and legal obligations mentioned. Now I'd like to look back on my own budget. The Republic of Serbia's total budget receipts in 2007 were planned at 581.8 billion dinars. The total expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget was planned at 595.5 billion dinars. This means that the fiscal deficit of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget was planned at around 13.7 billion dinars, which is 0.6% compared to the gross domestic product. The public debt that arrived for payment in 2007, as well as the funds needed to obtain financial assets, i.e. net budget loans amount to around 50.9 billion dinars. It follows that the total funds needed to finance the budget deficit and net budget loans amount to 64.6 billion dinars. For these purposes, real resources have already been provided, most of the privatisation revenues this year, as well as revenues transferred from the previous year. The adoption of the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia is planned on the basis of: the expected continuation of the positive trend in the movement of macroeconomic indicators, the receipt of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the first five months of 2007, the planned changes in tax policy and the expected reduction in the grey economy. The most significant tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, similar to those of previous years, will be revenues from value added tax, excise tax, income tax and customs. As a result of the change in the tax system and macroeconomic developments, VAT and excise participation in total tax revenues is expected to increase compared to the previous year, the share of income tax on citizens will decline, while the share of customs revenues in total revenues will remain approximately unchanged. Also, significant growth in profit tax participation in total revenues is expected. In the budget structure, revenue based on value added tax plays a dominant role. These revenues are planned at 270.4 billion dinars and account for 40.6% of total incomes. VAT revenues are projected in line with the expected growth of gross domestic product, inflation, movement of imports and exports and exchange rate. The projection of VAT revenues for the second half of 2007 estimated to slow the growth of income from this tax compared to the trends in the past part of this year, due to the expected slowdown in domestic demand and imports growth. Also, VAT revenue projections for the second half of the year also contain the effects of the proposed tax reduction from 18% to 8% on personal computers, as well as the effects of VAT refunding on the purchase of the first apartment. Excise-based revenues are the second most important in total budget revenues of 98.8 billion dinars, making up 17% of total income. Compared to the results in 2006, this is a nominal increase of 21.1%. The movement of excise duties is affected by the impacts on the consumption of basic excise products and the movement of their prices, i.e. a reduction or increase in accordance with market conditions and state measures. The Excise revenue projections for the second half of 2007 also contain an assessment of the effects of the previously described amendments to the Excise Act. The planned revenues from the income tax of citizens amount to 61.4 billion dinars, or 10.6% of total revenue of the budget. The planned revenue from this tax form is nominally less than 3.5% compared to the one achieved in 2006. Projected incomes based on income tax are slightly lower compared to the previous year, although a significant reduction in tax burden has taken place in early 2007. A significantly lower reduction in income from tax cuts is the result of a high rate of growth in earnings in the past part of the year, as well as an increased rate of profit tax collection. The introduction of a progressive rate of tax on the annual income of citizens, ranging from triple to six times the average annual earnings of 10, and above the sixfold 15%, also affected, but to a lesser extent, the reduction of income from income to income tax. The projection of income from profit taxes for the second half of this year estimated to slow down profit growth compared to trends from the first four months of this year. The projected customs revenues in 2007 are 54.3 billion dinars or 9.3% of total budget revenues. Compared to 2006, a nominal increase of 19.9% is projected. Customs revenues are planned on the basis of the expected movement of imports, gross domestic product, exchange rate, as well as the effects of liberalisation of foreign trade with the EU and the countries of the environment based on the creation of a CEFTA free trade zone. As regards customs regulations, the adoption of the Customs Tariff Act will not significantly affect the achievement of revenue on this basis. In the projection of customs revenues in the second half of this year, growth was estimated to slow down due to the expected slowdown in import growth, and that the rate of dinar towards the euro would remain relatively stable. Incomes from corporate and bank profits are becoming increasingly significant revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget. In 2007, revenue from this tax form was planned to amount to 27.3 billion dinars, or 4.7% of total revenue from the budget. Compared to the previous year, profit tax revenues are nominally higher by 61.9%. This category of income was projected on the basis of a presumption of continued growth of the company's profits, i.e. a trend that has been present since the beginning of 2006. The largest share of revenues on this basis, worth 14.3 billion dinars, has already been made by the end of May, given the payment of revenue after the final calculation in March of 8.4 billion dinars, which is a secure basis for the revenue plan this year. The planned non-tax revenues in 2007 amount to 64.5 billion dinars, accounting for 11.1% of the total revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Compared to the achievement in 2006, the projected non-tax revenues recorded nominal growth of 3.6%. It is common that, in the structure of non-tax revenues, the dominant participations have republican administrative fees, republican court fees, consular fees, gambling revenues, etc. However, a significant inflow of funds based on the sale of a licence for a second or third mobile phone operator was noted last and this year. By the way, I've already said that the third operator's revenues are about 25.5 billion dinars. As far as budget releases are concerned, total expenditure in 2007 amounting to 595.5 billion dinars has been planned. This is an increase of 127.9 billion dinars compared to the previous year. In doing so, two thirds of the proposed increase, i.e. the rise in public revenues in 2007 compared to 2006, refers to three categories of expenditure: firstly, these are capital expenditures, where the increase is 37.4 billion, wages, where the increase is 27.4 billion and transfers to other levels of government, where the increase is 19.3 billion. If we add to this the fourth category, which is transfers to social insurance organisations, which are 18.9 billion dinars, we will include 80% of the total expenditure increase between 2007 and 2006. When it comes to capital expenditure, the proposed budget envisions an increase in capital expenditure by 113.4% compared to the previous year, resulting in a rise in public investment in the budget from 7.1% to 11.9% in 2007. The biggest contribution to increased public investment comes from the realisation of the National Investment Plan, which has been increased by 4.85 times compared to the previous year. Another significant component of the proposed increase in budget expenditure is salary growth. Budget staff expenditure for 2007 amounts to around 152.9 billion dinars and participates in the expenditure structure with 25.7%. Most of this expenditure, worth 144.6 billion dinars, refers to salaries of employees financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. A significant rise in salary in the 2007 budget compared to the previous year is the result of firstly the increase in salary at the end of the previous year, whose increased level was transferred in 2007, as well as the increase in salaries in public services, health, education and culture and to a lesser extent in the state administration agreed with the protocols signed with the trade unions before the formation of this government. Realised and agreed salary growth is a significant improvement in the economic position of employees, especially highly educated people in education, health and science, and to a lesser extent in the state administration. The increase in employees' salaries in those activities is in line with the government's priorities, according to which actions are vital to Serbia's economic and social progress. The third significant component of the proposed expenditure growth of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 is transfers to other levels of government – Vojvodina and local communities. Transfers to other levels of government are projected to total 55.8 billion dinars and participate in the total budget expenditure structure with 9.4%. The growth of the AP Vojvodina's transfer stems from a constitutional obligation, under which the Vojvodina budget is at least 7% of Serbia's budget, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures. Funding to cover the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget will be provided from part of the income tax on the income of citizens, a profit tax of 18% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, part of the income from the company's profit tax of 42.7% of the amount achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and other revenues achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The funds for expenditure on education staff in the territory of the AP Vojvodina will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget in accordance with the law, as well as expenditure on financing works of the programme in the field of culture. The remaining amount of funds, at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and up to the level projected by the Decision on the 2007 AP Vojvodina budget, will be transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the AP Vojvodina budget, including part of the revenues from the privatisation of the company from the AP Vojvodina territory. Transfers to other levels of government (the units of local self-government) amount to about 30 billion dinars and have been established in accordance with Article 37. The law on the financing of local self-government. The distribution of transfers per unit of local self-government, in accordance with criteria and according to the methodology prescribed by the Law, was carried out by the Ministry of Finance, in co-operation with the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government, which was established by the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government. The review of determined transfers per unit of local self-government was contained in the 2007 Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy Memorandum, with a projection for 2008 and 2009. The distribution of transfers, under the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, will reduce the difference in the amount of funds between units of local self-government, so that the material position of the fiscally poorest municipalities and their ability to rapidly invest in the development of municipal infrastructure will significantly improve. This will improve the conditions for new investment and new employment in these underdeveloped environments, in which this problem is otherwise the most relevant. Transfer amount for 2007, in accordance with Article 39. The law on the financing of local self-government, which has been regulated to replace local self-government units with part of lost income from a change in the republican tax rules which has not been replaced with other incomes, also includes a part of which replaces local self-government units with a relative share of lost income based on a reduction in the profit tax rate from 14% to 12%. The amount of the 2007 transfer includes an exceptional part of which local self-government units will use to finance new responsibilities, such as investments and equipment for primary healthcare institutions. The increase in local communities' transfers is the result of compensation due to revenue losses resulting from a reduction in tax burdens. Transfers and grants to compulsory social insurance organisations have been established at a total amount of 147.4 billion dinars. Of this amount, the pensions of military insurance companies account for 17,5 billion dinars, and the amount of 129,9 billion dinars relate to compulsory social insurance organisations. The funds for compulsory social insurance organisations relate to allowances for the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund of 95 billion dinars, the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund of a farmer of 17.3 billion dinars, the National Employment Service of 13.7 billion dinars and the Republic Health Insurance Office of 3.1 billion dinars. Grants to mandatory social insurance organisations for 2007 are higher by 7.1 billion dinars than the grants made in 2006. In the end, let me look back on the public debt. At the end of 2006, the total public debt of the Republic of Serbia amounted to 9 billion and 352m euros, accounting for about 32% of the estimated gross social product in 2007. So it can be said that we do not belong to high-indebted countries. Under that amount, direct public debt amounts to 8 billion and 582m euros, and indirect debt, which is a guarantee-based debt, amounted to around 770m euros. Under direct debt, domestic public debt amounted to 3.8 billion euros, or 44%, while foreign debt amounted to 4.75m euros, or about 55%. Of the total amount of domestic debt, as much as 85.2% is in euros, or 3.3 billion euros, while the dinar debt amounts to only 14.7% of the total debt. The debt, based on old foreign savings of 3,236 billion euros, was the largest single position under the overall public debt of the Republic of Serbia. The guaranteed public debt mainly relates to the debts of public enterprises and public institutions towards international financial organisations and to a significantly smaller extent to debts towards foreign governments and their institutions. The government of the Republic of Serbia planned to settle its public debt obligations in a similar manner as in the previous year. According to the proposal for a bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget, a total of 42 billion dinars were planned to be paid in 2007, or around 500m euros for the orderly service of Serbia's public debt. The foreign savings service is in this figure and represents the largest item and amounts to around 270m euros. Also planned is the approval of net budget loans from the budget of 8.8 billion dinars. In the final part of the exhibition, I would like to underline once again that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007 reflects the economic and social priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also previously assumed legal and contractual obligations. The proposed budget supports macroeconomic stability, improves the environment for growth in economic activity and employment and contributes to improving the social situation of poor populations. Macro-economic stability is supported by a low fiscal deficit, while a favourable environment for growth in economic activity and employment is achieved through the proposed tax reform and growth of public investment. The social component of the budget is contained in both targeted subsidies and transfers to unemployed and undeveloped regions, as well as in the proposed tax changes. Despite a significant increase in public investment and transfers to other levels of government, the planned budget deficit is only 0.6% of gross domestic product. The surplus, which will be achieved by other public income users, estimates that the country's consolidated deficit will be even lower and will be around 0.4% of GDP in 2007. The planned deficit is among the lowest not only among countries in the environment but also in Europe. The fiscal deficit in 12 countries that have become members of the European Union in 2006 averaged down to 1.8% of gross domestic product, while the fiscal deficit of 15 old members in the same year was 1.6% of gross domestic product. The low fiscal deficit, which is also financed from real resources, so revenues from the sale of licences, revenues from privatisation, will significantly contribute to the consolidation of macroeconomic stability and will facilitate the achievement of the planned inflation rate. The finance ministry plans to implement a balanced budget policy over the coming years to create a space for the economy to secure from abroad the missing funds for investment without jeopardising macroeconomic stability. The structure of the proposed 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia has been significantly changed towards increasing investment in infrastructure, physical capital and human capital education, health and science, creating strong foundations for economic growth in the future. Realising the NIP's overall public investment in Serbia that is made through the Republic of Serbia's budget has significantly increased, so it will be around 2.4% of gross domestic product in 2007, representing an increase of 0.8% compared to the previous year. In addition, within the framework of the transfer of Vojvodina around half the percentage of the gross domestic product is foreseen for the implementation of projects under the NIP. The consolidated level of public investment in 2007 is estimated to reach 4.5% of gross social product, which is about two percentage points higher than in the previous year. Realising public investment, building modern infrastructure, improving education, health and state administration create favourable conditions for domestic and foreign private investment, which will be the main generator of Serbia's long-term economic growth. The proposed budget, both through revenue and expenditure, contains a number of measures aimed at reducing unemployment, which is one of the biggest economic and social problems in Serbia. On the side of revenues, at the beginning of the year, the fiscal burden of earnings has been reduced and temporary redundancies of employers have been introduced since payment of contributions for certain categories of employees. A reduction in the fiscal burden of earnings and other stimulating measures in tax policies that directly reduce labour costs will affect the growth of demand for labour, i.e. reduce unemployment. The proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia also includes a number of expenditures, subsidies for new employment, loans, etc., intended for employment growth, including self-employment. Also, realising public investment within the NIP will directly affect employment growth through the engagement of domestic enterprises, while indirectly, through the attraction of domestic and foreign private investments, will also affect employment growth. The synthetic effect of these measures in tax policy and expenditure policy is estimated to be a significant reduction in unemployment in Serbia in the coming years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2753	Do the rapporteurs of the Finance and Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ) Did MP Ivan Andric, who, at the session of the Legislative Committee, issue an opinion on the Bill on the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia, want to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2754	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have issued an opinion on the Legislative Committee on Budgets, and I would like to explain why I did such a thing. There are at least two groups of reasons why we do not agree with this draft budget and the way this budget was put before the MPs. I'd say a few things about these reasons, first of all because, even though I'm going to talk about procedural things, I think it's actually about the essential things that are related to the work of the Assembly. Several times, the Budget Law has been before the Serbian Parliament so far. What's safe and what everyone knows is that it's about adopting the most important law. If the ruling majority's relationship to the Assembly is like this when the most important law is passed, we can only ask what will be the relationship of the majority when it comes to some seemingly minor laws. So I think it's very important that we say a few words about this now before we start discussing the very text of the budget. First of all, our main objection is that the budget has not passed any public debate, not even the slightest expert debate. The full text of the budget became available to the public only Friday night, when it was delivered to the MPs. So most MPs do not live in Belgrade, so the text of the budget became available to them only on Saturday. I don't think two days is enough time for any of us to analyze such an important thing as a budget. There was no expert discussion in public because it was not possible. All we have is speculation from some experts about the budget, which is due to some texts in the paper. Rest assured, none of the experts made this bill look good on all sides this weekend. But that doesn't mean this budget debate is closing. That's the delusion of the ruling majority. I think we're gonna have a lot more budget rebalances. That's because we haven't had enough time. I have been an MP since 2001, and I would like to point out that this is the first time since then that no meetings of government representatives and parliamentary groups on the budget have been held. These meetings were held and a good tradition was launched by which the ministry or any representative of the government presented the budget to all parliamentary groups, and this is where MPs have the opportunity to ask various questions and resolve certain dilemmas that they have in relation to the text of the budget. This has the effect that when the budget session starts, the debate becomes much more serious and concrete. Also, joining agenda points, even though you have the right to do so, is just another thing in sequence that shows what the desire of the authorities to discuss this budget is. Of course, I will repeat the question that the head of our parliamentary group has referred to, which is - why is there no prime minister? If he can't come, he can at least send an answer. All these reasons that I have stated to us are justified by the fact that the situation in Serbia is such that we need the budget and that it is very important that the Assembly works quickly, to be effective, effective, etc. I think it's all true, but the problem in this case is that speed is just an excuse to cover the bad side of this budget. Even with superficial insight, our parliamentary group has managed to determine many irregularities. We'll talk about them today, but it's just not good. Speed here is just a prerequisite or just an excuse for not having a public debate, for us to rush the adoption of the budget, with not having enough time for amendments, but it doesn't essentially fix the matter. I think speed should have been thought about maybe before those government negotiations, when speed wasn't important, when we had to wait four months for what we knew to happen after one day, and speed wasn't a good thing if we didn't have seven days to review the budget, to consult and put out our objections. I'll use the minister's presence to ask one question. So, as we all know very well, Serbia has financed since 31 March, according to a regulation most of the MPs, most of the parties that make up this parliament have declared illegal and unconstitutional. I'd like to ask a question of responsibility and use your presence here to tell us what the Ministry has done so far to determine whose responsibility it is and what steps it has taken to stop such a thing from happening again. We understand that you are now a member of the coalition, but I ask you to respect us at least enough to tell us who is responsible for such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2755	Thank you. Did MP Slobodan Maras, who held a session of the Finance Committee, issue an opinion on the Bill on the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2756	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to my fellow MP Ivan Andric's presentation. I want to say that what we don't see here is the Prime Minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, and the other ministers, who would have to give us an answer to some questions... We do not see here either the vice-president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, nor the president of the parliamentary group and the majority, not to say almost all members of the Democratic Party of Serbia who are MPs in this assembly. So much for the respect they have for us when we adopt, that is, the debate on the proposal for this law. I come from Vojvodina, and I must remind you that we, while you were running a referendum campaign for the adoption of a new constitution, ran an anti-referendum campaign, for a number of reasons, but one of the important reasons was the relationship between this constitution to Vojvodina and the citizens of Vojvodina. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the 2007 draft budget of the Republic of Serbia has the same relationship and I can say that it is also a humiliation to the people of Vojvodina. One of our basic remarks is that those 7% entered into the Constitution, in Article 184, do not meet the needs of the Duke. The problem is that Vojvodina brings over 30% into the budget and only gets 7%. The finance minister will surely know how much it is. What else is a big problem? The big problem is that you don't respect the Constitution that you've brought. So Article 184 says that Vojvodina should receive at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but in Article 3. The budget proposal says the missing funds will be transferred up to 7%, amounting to 21.5 billion dinars. What's the problem? The problem is that transfers must be provided for in economic classification positions 463. That's the only thing done when it comes to the division of the 12th Ministry of Finance, where it says that there are two billion separate from Vojvodina. Where did 19 billion go? I must point out that this, except for the disagreement between the general and the special part of the Budget Proposal, the disagreement and the Constitution. The 19 billion are probably on economic classifications of 551, or the implementation of the National Investment Plan. But what's the big deal? It's been scattered across different ministries. Any use of them must be approved by the Government. Where's the problem? The problem lies that it is likely to function easily when the minister from the Democratic Party is to communicate and transfer the assets of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, but we were witnesses, let's say last year, while the finance minister was Mr Dinkic, that the terrible problems existed during the transfer of the assets of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Also, the problem can be raised – what if we have the province elections this year and the province's elections change power in the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, what will be the relationship? So this will all depend on the goodwill of a particular ministry, on which the funds are found. Or maybe it's something else? Or maybe the problem is that they don't trust the Dukes, which is why special ministries and governments have to decide on these means? The second very important question I raised my opinion on is – why is the budget for the agriculture ministry smaller? On the other hand, the funds found at the Ministry of Agriculture are smaller than last year. We received an answer to the Committee from the finance minister that the reason last year's budget was greater than they were able to spend. I think it's an answer that wouldn't satisfy anyone. I have one more thing to say, and that's that I wasn't the only representative of the opposition in the Finance Committee. I wasn't the one who gave the quorum. I think one of the biggest reasons why we can't support this budget is that the representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mrs Borka Vukic, gave me a quorum when deciding on the Committee, has also voted in favour of this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2757	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have appointed their authorised representatives: the Serbian Radical Party – the magistrate of Jorgovanka Tabaković; the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group – Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica – Mr Slavoljub Matic; the Democratic Party's parliamentary group – Aleksandar Vlahovic, and the Social Democratic League Group of Vojvodina - the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - National MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) According to the order of the announcement, first is MP Cedomir Jovanovic and then MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2758	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr. Cvetkovic, only a partial budget is an economic topic. In transition societies, as well as in most highly developed countries, the budget is a predominantly political issue. That's why this debate was originally condemned to failure, since there is no political part of the government that would be obliged here to offer us an answer to which the finance minister, nor the members representing the government here can offer an answer. So this budget projection defines Serbia itself. This budget speaks of our future and the political intentions of the majority that the budget supports, the government's intentions to run this country in the time ahead, in line with the budget it has set out. Since the Prime Minister doesn't want to talk about the budget, because that's why he's not here, we'll be forced to assume what his intentions are. When we distanced ourselves from the committee vote, we practically opened that political backdrop of the 2007 budget law, we did not do it exclusively as an opposition, but we did it as representatives of the 220,000 citizens who voted for us at that point (it would certainly vote more today), but also as people who want to make basic political arrangements that are the precondition for a successful transition in Serbia, because, behold, seven years after its beginning, we cannot say that we have come closer to the successful end of that transition. It is not exclusively a social agreement, although it is so often spoken of. The prerequisite for reaching a social agreement is a political agreement, and the precondition for a political agreement is to define a common goal. Unfortunately, this budget is such that we cannot say that as citizens we share a common goal with those who propose a budget like this. This budget isn't developmental. This budget is not even transitional, this is not the state budget that wants to tighten the belt and send the citizens a message that in 2007 and 2008, there will be years of belt tightening, but after that comes the period that we sacrifice ourselves for today. This is a compromise budget on issues where compromises cannot be. We spend nearly 600 billion in 2007 financing the political incompetence of Prime Minister Kostunica, the political demagogue of former Finance Minister Mr Dinkic and Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic. We need to talk about this openly. What we as a parliamentary group can support is the idea of reforming tax policy. What has been proposed through amendments to the Property Tax Act, i.e. the Value Added Tax Act, is not enough for us. The way it's done is complicated by the tax situation in society and, on the other hand, you, Mr. Cvetkovic, as the person who represents this budget and is forced here to defend it, puts you in an awkward position. We can't talk about the government's willingness to help society and socially endangered layers of society through changes to the property tax law and tax cuts in the purchase of the first apartment from 5% to... Practically, tax exemption, in a situation where, for example, you as finance minister cannot respect the request of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for the respect of the law. So I would like to try and explain budget issues in this debate on the political, social and development issues. The first political question that we have been asked through the draft budget is, in fact, in which direction this country should go during 2007 and 2008. Did we get what Serbia needs through the draft budget? Mr. Cvetkovic, you yourself said you were disabled from doing what the finance minister in the country who wants to change has to do. You mentioned a policy of agreement with large budget consumers and a profit policy that you cannot change because someone had previously made a deal. Kostunica lost the election because Serbia was not satisfied with the way he led it. We cannot agree to finance his election campaign with the 2007 budget. So whoever made the unreal arrangements should pay that price, and that price must not be paid by the citizens of Serbia, which is now practically happening through this draft budget. Although there was little time for budget analysis and superficial reading, there are already several large topics in advance that you haven't talked much about – how inflatable is this budget, how much is it changing the projected inflation rate of 6.5%, as the target rate at the end of this year? How much does this budget put pressure on monetary policy and the role of the NBS? We haven't had the opportunity to speak to you or Mr. Jelasic as governor, but we have come to know his views and views of members of the NBS Council. They think this budget proposal is bad. They believe that such a draft budget will require the National Bank to play a much more restrictive role in the monetary sphere than it has ever been before and rather than what is the case if the NBS's 2007 intentions are analysed. Why is that? Why can Serbian citizens tighten their belts, and this cannot be done by the state? This budget is bigger than the last one. So the state is more expensive. Is the service better? Let's reward those who have improved their service so that we can send the citizens a message that we are not ready to spend their money on those who are used to being irresponsible. We were not in a position to get an answer to the question of who was against the constitution and against the law, a process that two-thirds of today's ruling coalition interpreted by the coup policy, spent money from March 31st to this day. It was Kostunica's government. How is this money spent, by which priorities, and is that a rule that we have now established: respect for the law and the Constitution when it suits us, and when it doesn't suit us, it means that every year we will adopt the budget in June, because the situation will be difficult and complicated and therefore we are made impossible and disabled by all the activity that comes from, say, the Budgetary System Act that we worked on together? It's bad that this practice is changing. Since 2001, the budget has been discussed more seriously in the Assembly than is being discussed today. The prime ministers sat there, the key ministers sat, the budget was discussed on committees. We haven't been able to do that now. The government's political decision is to stop Serbia's further transition, practically, by policy of status quo. That's true. This budget is the way it is. Price? The price will not be paid by Kostunica, the price will be paid by society. If the growth of profits is compared with productivity growth and the social product of Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria, we make this budget of labour in Serbia more expensive from 25% to 40% than in our neighbouring countries. How can we talk about an investment policy in a society that is so unregulated and irregular, such as ours, which does not respect, say, the Budgetary System Act and which, in such an irresponsible way, spends citizens' money? When we talk about the social aspect, we agree that the state must take care of the most vulnerable layers in society, that it must take care of those who are burdened with buying an apartment, but let's say that there is a more effective way for a much more responsible social policy than the one currently being applied by the state by fulfilling the demagogue promises of Bozidar Djelic from the election campaign. That's the case with Mr Milosavljevic, he's not here, and he's tied to that famous "100 euros per hectare". There's nothing in this budget right now. Agrarian subsidies go, above all, to the reform of the stock fund, to establish mechanisms for an efficient market and for agricultural land. We're a long way from the 100-euro story per hectare. If all subsidies that exist at the Ministry of Justice were transferred in that direction, then it would be seen that no more than 50 can be obtained. We must say that the social role of the state has been neglected, primarily through two aspects. The first is to disrespect the request of the Health Insurance Fund. According to the Health Protection Act, Article 22 (Mr Cvetkovic, please pay attention to this, because it is a very serious issue), the state is obliged to finance health insurance for those who are not in a position to finance their own health insurance through contributions. The population categories are very precisely defined: children up to 15 years old, high school students and students up to 26 years old, persons over 65 years of age, pregnant women, HIV positive persons, a total of more than 900,000 Serbian citizens. The Health Insurance Fund has established a 16 billion dinar obligation, asked the finance ministry for eight, got only three. The fact is that the positive effect you were counting on when you, for example, reduced the property tax from 5% to 2.5%, or completely abolished the purchase of the first apartment. How are we going to solve this problem? That's what they'd ask you on the Finance Committee. We are not prepared to support the government's budget that will ignore the needs of 900,000 citizens or limit them in such a way. Whom? Students, students, old, sick. Serbia must have money for that. In other places, it should save. We don't have a defence minister, no police minister, no minister of education, no big budget consumers. How are we going to solve this, on what committee? We've got to work this out. The attitude towards a fund that needs to be looked after by people with disabilities is devastating. That's how much we talked about in the campaign. There's no such thing as gender equality. The famous Lustration Commission, to determine responsibility for human rights violations - offensive, 220 thousand dinars. BIA, twice the budget of the Justice Department. We need to get out of this situation together. We offer you help, primarily through the idea of additional consultations and agreements on these key issues. We have proposed very clearly, because of the chaos that will produce Božidar Djelic's measure, Utopian, tax cuts on the first apartment, in the way we practically subtract funds from local self-government in the procedure to which everyone will be called, and no one will be able to control it and implement it, to reform tax policy differently, to start thinking differently about reducing value added tax at a certain point. It's a good thing there's a tax relief for VAT on computers. Late, but good. Better than staying 18%. I remind you of the parliament's decision, which has, in practice, also changed the value added tax in the area of housing. It was 18%, so it went down to eight. Meanwhile, there was chaos in the housing market. This decision will push us into a very difficult position. This decision is unfavourable for investors, it discriminates against them. Why would someone invest their money in building an apartment? This decision discriminates against an entire sector of our society. How are we going to implement that decision? Local self-government is not in a position to do so, and this decision leaves local self-government without a portion of income. This budget is brutal towards municipalities and Vojvodina. This budget isn't what we'd like it to be. This budget does not send a message that people will be doing what they do in Serbia, and until we send that message Serbia will be as poor as it is today. Only in your ministry, Mr. Cvetkovic, can we say that the budget respects itself and that the funds are really being transferred to Vojvodina. What about 19 billion? Of the 21st, as far as the budget is concerned, you are the only one who transfers the money to the Vojvodina without a doubt. The other 19 depend on the government's will, which is even a violation of the constitution that the political majority in Serbia insisted on during October 2006. None of the decentralisation and respect for Vojvodina's autonomy. Local self-government has been compromised through the narrowing of incomes, which have been minimal anyway, tax policy is confusing due to the inability to apply and comply with the rules it insists on. We support excise policy, but we need to think, and we haven't heard from you, when Serbia will stop double taxation itself. The sooner we leave the excise policy and move on to clear taxes, the better. It's a good thing the soft drinks of that were released, but let's see what happens to everyone else and within what deadlines. This is the budget for "stick and rope" and then that's what to say. Citizens cannot be satisfied with the way nearly 600 billion will be spent. We had to hear a political message that in 2007, Serbia was ready to do what it had not done in the previous three or four, to tighten that belt, a hundred holes if necessary, but with the ambition to finally change, with the idea that it could only spend what it had created and that in Serbia it could no longer be paralysed at the work of someone else. The private sector has been derailed again. We expect the private sector to finance an incompetent state. Without talking about restructuring, about firing the incompetent in education, health care, the police, defense, the judiciary, we cannot achieve a balance that is the prerequisite for a normal transition. The impression is that only in the state can money be spent without any criteria. Citizens are asked to save, to accept privatisation, to leave the company because they are a technological surplus. Is there a technological surplus in this country for those who spend their budgets? If it doesn't exist, then let's figure it out, and if there is, we have to get an answer why it's not sanctioned. During this debate, we will insist on several very important issues, but at this point it is a very important issue of discrimination that is open to changes in property tax. We suggest that in the second case, from 5% to 1% and in such a way practically equal the conditions under which citizens should live in Serbia. We have an understanding of this measure of social policy, but it's not enough. Let the burden on the employee be reduced, in this sense help society and thus affirm employment policy. The unemployment rate is 21%, and we make our workforce more expensive than 25 to 40%. You must offer us an answer to the question of the Health Insurance Fund. Three billion and a hundred million is five times less than this country's legal obligation. Change the law. We can talk about that too. Send a message to society that there is nothing more, and if we want the Health Insurance Fund, we need to create it first. He can't write in the Health Insurance Act that 900,000 people have a certain right, and on the other hand, in the budget they can only talk about it and they'll never do it. In other places, let's tighten the belt, but not on the students, the students, the old and the sick. The country's social policy has turned into a charity of the state that previously destroyed its society. That's not good. We have an understanding of the difficult situation in which Serbia is located, but we have no understanding of the policy that bypasses it, does not want to talk about it and lies about society. Voting for this kind of budget in the Serbian government has practically offered a new economic fraud to Serbia. The development, modern, reform budget is not the budget that lies ahead and we are voting against it for it. If there is a need for transition support, you have it absolutely, to restructure public enterprises, to sanction non-work in public services, to reduce spending in the ministries of force. It is not normal for the police, defence and BIA ministries to have twice as many as the health ministry, from the education ministry in Serbia 2007. What kind of message are we sending? Unacceptable and bad. In 2007, I'm sure we'll talk about the budget one more time. Your position is unsustainable, two billion budget reserves. It's a smaller reserve than in 2003 and the sooner we leave these "Potemkin's Villages" and the political utopia from an election campaign called the National Investment Plan, the better for all of us. The state has nothing to look for in business. Let her leave, let her deal with social policy, education, make her services efficient, from security to justice, and business as soon as possible to the business world. And we haven't heard anything about it. There are no reliefs we need. You're full of understanding for one sector of society, but not for another. We expect that through further reform of the tax policy, we will be able to change the existing situation, but I think the debate on the budget was a good opportunity to begin, if nothing else, at least one reasoned conversation. I invite you to talk in breaks about the way this is going to be solved. We have proposed amendments and they are very important to us. We'll support you for excise policy. We insist on changing the attitude towards the Health Insurance Fund, according to Vojvodina, local self-government, and reducing the degree of discrimination against citizens who already own an apartment, by lowering the tax for them from five percent to one percent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2759	The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2760	Dear colleagues, respected citizens, the budget law is the basic message the government is sending us, because the budget law gives us information on what it intends to do and how it intends to run the country in the coming period. If this government delivered 319 pages to us on Friday afternoon, about 16 hours (the ambassadors know, and I want the citizens to see) the densely typed text in the smallest font, which, with both glasses and enviable dioptria, can be difficult to follow, if it also gave us a set of accompanying tax laws, and there are six, and if that contains 488 pages, I can tell you that for us Serbian radicals it is not a problem. In two days we've managed to see all of this, we've managed to bring amendments to these laws, but the question for the government does it really believe in these 488 pages that we and the citizens are going to swallow that the microsurgery of this society is written on the first side of the budget that allegedly redistributes the amount of some 595 billion dinars? The careful eye of any reader will not miss the information that the state is, in fact, redistributing 646,466,666,000 dinars. So 646 billion dinars, of which only 581 billion are collected by taxes. The rest of the money by 646 billion is, in fact, debts, unreal sources of income, which tomorrow will result in what someone will call a public debt. Someone on account of that will print securities of value, the finance minister will charge the governor, and this one, and as mutually competitive houses on the same market, securities of value will reduce every income dinar we have, and tell us the story that we have a surplus from which we should return the ino-credits. Dear citizens, let me repeat: over eight billion euros, at a rate of 81 dinar per euro, this government, which attends in the british composition a debate on the budget, spending our earned salaries and a created gross social product. That's not all. Over these 646 billion there is also an amount that each of us again pays to the state beyond tax obligations, through what the state calls its own sources of income. So add to eight billion euros another 71 billion of the most interesting part of the budget ahead of us, what the government gentlemen call their own revenues. Before I continue to illustrate to you what this government is going to do, I'm going to give you a general conclusion. At the time of the technical government's adoption of the second regulation in May and when the newly-formed government adopted another regulation to carry out financing by the end of June, one thing was clear: between the participants in the government, in the coalition, three or four, it is not important, when it comes to the interest and the hand in the citizens' pocket, there are no ideological or political differences, because they are interested in the distribution of national money uniting them in the strongest coalition. That's why, in a short time, we've got a budget in which we all need to agree that this government, past the Constitution and the law, be a tax collector, and a development bank, and a loan shark, and the one you're going to be begging to get from the National Investment Plan that the dinar to build a hall, hospital. It'll be someone you'll have to beg, to enlist, to join the party of that minister who holds that ministry, because you won't be able to use budget funds differently. I'll make the arguments, the ones the government gave me. I repeat, I don't have any classified information. The official messenger, number 50 from 2007, to which I would like to explain the unconstitutional nature of the budget, the unconstitutional spending of money, contains from three to 19 a kind of regulation on the incentive of certain activities, from agriculture through the National Investment Plan. There are two basic premises at which the budget must rest, which is the constitutional category that we are all equal before the law and, secondly, that no single revenue can be established for the state and the budget without it being established by law. So in a home like this, where people's representatives are, the government as an executive body has to come up with a proposal on how much money it needs, for which purposes, according to which regulation, criteria and programme will consume you, because it's nobody's legacy, it's the money of the peoples that have a source in taxes and other non-tax revenues and, our specificity, from privatisation revenues. This government has no time to come up with such a law before the National Assembly. This government has no cheek, this government has no arguments to pass such laws, and that's why we don't have a subsidy law, so we don't have a law on the National Investment Plan. Don't, please, tell me that by defining at point 37 of the definition of the Budgetary System Act, the process, the procedure or the grand fraud has been given a legal foothold. Please don't. They don't have a criterion, because they don't have a reason, for the next reason. If the Government in "Glassnik" 50/07 publishes the Regulation on the use of incentive funds for example Foreign direct investment, many citizens may not even know it's new, second in line, which changes the previous one. You know what a fundamental change is? That Mr. Dinkic is wondering again. The man whose resources and spending are in this book, finely written, is on the most side of the previous government, but in the image of the finance minister, was the one who stimulated alleged employment, giving at least 2,000 euros per job to all those who came to invest. Let me remind you, the final example is "Calcedonia" in Sombor, where the country has allocated 800,000 euros for 400 new employees (when, with whom the guarantee will really be employed). The office "Calcedonia" is a foreign company, and it doesn't bother him, because the regulation (not in the law, in the regulation) states that it is enough for the company to be registered in the territory of this country. What's the matter? We are all fighting for employment, but it is disputed that when the finance minister was Mr Dinkic, any kind of threat of obedience to the "King of the Minister" who splits the money goes through him by the Pandan Foreign Investment Encouragement Agency, but now that he is no longer there and when his close associate is no longer there, Mr Dinkic is asked again. Someone will be able to claim to me that we don't have, according to Max Webber, a captive state in which we have an abuse of public interest for our own personal purposes. So the government thinks we don't read, thinks this isn't a shame, thinks this is legal. I really need to remind all those who are involved in public life, all those who have nothing to do with the economy, especially those who present themselves to experts, that the budget is a matter of law. So the budget can't establish new rights. The budget only defines the rights already established by the figures, figures, or means to be allocated. But that's why the laws, which must be passed on the basis of the Constitution, mean that we are all equal... It cannot be privileged for young people up to 45 years of age, or for undercover members of your parties, but there must be a law before which all citizens will be equal and able to have access to budgetary resources from a state that must accept responsibility, think about both employment and development, because when it collects taxes and when it can fill pockets, it must also take care of citizens with the same tenacity with which it collects money. Otherwise, the basic question will be raised: why would citizens pay a state that refuses to care for their interests, which selectively lends loans to young people, which stimulates the employment of foreign firms, which is not ready to go before their elected government and ministry? Whatever we are, we are from the people, so we have whatever to say, even if we vote against, you have a majority, so go ahead and realize your goals. But it's not easy. You're in a hurry, you're in a hurry to bring the budget because the basic concept of the single account, what the people don't like to hear, and experts call KRT, means the consolidated single account vault is completely broken. You have ministries, small feuds; you only open a book on the budget and you'll see, in each of them, there's one piece, from a few hundred thousand to high millions of sums, meaning up to 900 million in some ministries, untapped money from the previous year. The former finance minister's favorites, in these ministries, also have a shared portion of the privatisation income, so each kingdom has its own sources. What's scariest, most devastating, and who don't dare bring out analysts, journalists, or economists, is that we at the Treasury Authority, the Finance Ministry, have a state in the country. The Treasury Administration performs payment services for budget users (if citizens remember, that's the old SDK) and, apparently, from those funds (so the state takes it from itself) has its own revenues and, believe it or not, the Treasury Administration (means, not the Ministry of Finance, but the Treasury Administration) is financing its own costs entirely. She even told us in this budget that there are some funds and 12 billion own incomes that (here's another very important thing I want to talk about) will pay back the debts, which is the side that's domestic. I'll talk about the debts later. In that Treasury Administration, we have been given the law to decide what is the regulations of the agricultural cooperative: transfer to this sector as many people as you want or to those other people you think can do teamwork. No, that's what we're supposed to be discussing under the law. We're not discussing regulations where billions of money is distributed. Only the National Investment Plan is 44 billion; how much is the subsidy, how much is the loan. You know, the regional development and economy ministry deals with and credits, so what's called 551 and what's 621, loans and subsidies, you have it with Mr Dinkic completely uncovered. A man credits, what business banks. Gentlemen of the citizens, four major banks have been shut down according to the mob principle - kill the trustee and you've settled the debt. According to this mob principle, all of us citizens are forced to go for mere survival and to borrow from foreign banks. Companies were obliged to move their payments to these foreign banks. But the state, the government, its ministries, their payments are not made by these banks, by business or by any means, by its Treasury Office. I think business banks would race to do the job for an extremely low commission, with a good preventive control at the Ministry. Why are you people even doing this job at the Ministry or what you're doing just for you? You want to go out to the market to fight the competition? No, you've shut down our banks, you've focused us on lending to banks that are from abroad, which make you a problem when they get money from their headquarters, so you have to reserve them to adapt, but the way you want us to make an ideal debtor, so someone succeeds or someone fails, because you know what they say -- it's guilty, nobody made him take whatever the problem, bad, bad flight, any addiction. But what you're trying to do, and making the state an ideal debtor, is that, gentlemen, you can't do it without this assembly anymore, you can't do it without this assembly. I'm informing the public that in June 2005 you passed the Public Debt Act, which is supposed to keep records of it and concerns, not records, public debt concerns. To this day you have not formed this administration, until today you have not set up a director, you have placed only on the Ministry of Finance website an organisational scheme, the structure in which the cube stands - the Public Debt Administration, and in this budget you write that the Treasury Administration will take care of the public debt until the establishment of the Public Debt Administration. No wonder you have more to do, you have regulations to subsidize, to share, to beg you, to bestow upon you and to be in the name of the state great and good, merciful rulers. Dear gentlemen, do you really think citizens can't add up two and two? Do you really think it can go undetected that since the previous interim financing regulation, which the government has brought to this budget law, it is said, in a completely unusual way, there is no interest worth a billion 875 million and 800,000 missing from revenue. (President: Time. Excuse me, you have 20 minutes as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It's not a problem, it's over. ) The 23m-euro interest has disappeared. So 23m euros disappeared from the budget report. (President: I apologize, I've been warned, you have twice as much time, proceed freely to the end. I thank you, I will be instructed to speak in general. So 23m euros went missing from the revenue side. Mr. Minister, I don't know why you've changed good practice to indicate and what income that is there in some class seven. It's really pointless not to enter... Mr. Vlahovic, you want me to talk a little bit about you? You'll get your turn. So no income classifications were put in place. It's no problem, there's an official messenger where the rules on the final plan and the classification framework for budgets and everything is nice and visible, so I have two interesting questions to ask. Where did the 23m-euro interest go? And a more important question: what are 23m euros worth of interest? Why do you have mixed and undefined incomes in non-tax revenue, 15 billion euros? People, 15 billion euros in mixed and undefined revenues. When I tried to establish through a classification framework what came from those couples, it turned out that it could be a lease for housing in the state property, which certainly isn't that money, part of getting public enterprises, which probably isn't, and it remains the possibility of being some "other income". I really cannot understand that, in the draft budget, as an MP, you provide me with a review in which the item "other incomes" amounts to 15,354,827,000 dinars of undefined amount of funds. I would like to know, Mr Cvetkovic, that you are here as a representative of the Government, why did you go to the MPs without in any word explaining the need to submit, first of all, to this assembly a final bill, even for the previous year? The last of these species was in 2001, and I think it would be very useful to compare how many new government employees are now in the bodies compared to that last data. It would be interesting to see how much, as a state, on our behalf, we have invested in the National Savings Bank, how much of it, as a state, we have benefited, how Mr Dinkic and his friends sold their stakes in the National Savings Bank and how much, I ask for the budget, as the state earned it. The final bill by nature would also contain money flows. So we'd know how many foreign reserves we have, for example. at the Euroaxis Bank, where interest is stored there, why Mr. Jelasic, the governor, made, by his own admission, not by secret information, ten billion dinars of loss, allegedly regulating monetary policy. I have a particularly interesting question in the context of the money flows – in order for Mr Djelic to explain to us what is the list which he has the majority owner published, as shown in the days of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's election in the stock market. It is the title from the list "Economist", in which Mr Djelic is the majority owner. The men who served the army, fellow MPs, they know that showing exercise is a simulation of something. So, along with investment funds, which you are now trying to create easier working conditions by freeing them from tax obligations, with these investment funds and in April of new licenses (it's interesting now, sir, because you're okay with those who are easy to get licenses for new, financial attractive jobs) have come up on the money market with a large amount of money (one of them is from Zagreb, one from here, from the home field) and they've made us this show exercise, simulation, how can it be done on the stock market if the radicals come to power. Which small shareholders then remained short sleeves, which the investment funds picked up, the question is which you have to answer to the public, not to finally break the dilemma that the people can't wait for radicals in power, but to tell us who simulated that demonstration exercise to pick up a kamak from small shareholders, and to tell us a story about the development of the financial market and the need for tax exemptions of these activities. Speaking of these cash flows, it would be very interesting if we could clear up the story of the cash registers and, in general, the securities from value once and for all. It's only possible if you deliver the final bill. Some small buyers say, "Well, I've earned it. I will tell you an unpopular story, short, if citizens remember when it was possible at the time of the big inflation in 1993 to buy shoes for 300 euros, and by the time the check arrives, you give them three euros for those shoes, so you're lucky you went well. At the time, someone was taking loans of 1 million euros and returning them with 10,000. The story repeats itself. The question is whether the actors are different and who is now creating their environment and conditions. You who bought the cash register and earned 5,000, in fact, for you the story wasn't directed or imagined. It is designed for large players who have bought cash registers that, according to Mr Djelic, I do not trust him, but here I have data, 155m euros for interest only. It's not someone else's story, it's not a story outside the budget, it's a story of this budget. These interest those big players in that on-line store we'll pay. Why is he a line store? When the fraud with the National Savings, in the stock market, which is a public rule of trade, when the software application stopped time so that a single customer could maintain the price of shares and then sell to the Greek bank, answered Ana Lukic broker, the fine was a year off from doing business. This is possible in this country, in which greed is the main idea of leadership and in which you once sell such a stunt that Dinkic sold with the National Savings. He and his friend Jelasic are no longer doing it on the stock market, they are doing it in an on-line store where they know exactly which broker, which dealer, who authorized from a business bank has access to that trade. It's not a story for the black chronicle, it's not a story for the tabloid newspaper, it's a story for the budget, and that's why it's missing in many places, where it's necessary, money, but that's why there are for those who say - everything can be the subject of trade, but Jelasic we don't give. Does anyone else need an explanation as to why Jelasic is being held as dry gold, as someone who has truly accepted on himself a great responsibility to one day, along with a great team of financial actors in the image of Nikola Zivanovic, expert Nik Jovanovic, present the accounts before us. Because, citizens know well, there is no perfect robbery, and we Serbian citizens, we in the SRS have no reason not to talk about this in the way that the data shows, how they say it and how we're all damaged together that we don't have for elemental matters, that each other's fraud in the temporary financing regulation, to stop this unconstitutional financing of housing building, or assigning housing loans, because we don't want to be hostages of their common interests, or to be collateral damage to their unfinished agreements or disagreements in the ministries that function on the principle of double key – where two corresponds, none is responsible – and that the most kidnappings and today is done around the distribution of money. The right to be next to the till gets the one who always knew to give it to the one above him. Mr. Gilas has again received keys from an interesting cash register called the Office and the National Investment Plan. Boza Djelic, who "Altis Capital" and "Altis Consalting" used mostly for himself, completely illegal, who through the company "Sopar Sas" with a stake in "Credi Agrikol Bank" of only 9.99%, in order not to discover it, earned millions of sums, did not get from Mr Tadic the right to be next to the register. Only one who brings him in to finance interesting things can have access. The second one has been given access to the National Investment Fund, which, in principle, I am talking about all the time, is fully unconstitutionally funded, also by a regulation saying the council will be set up. Gilas will propose to the council a way to distribute and they may even know who will give whom and for what purposes, but we here and Serbian citizens will probably only when an affair breaks. This year you've done it in a way that in one of the members of the budget law, here it is, beautifully colored, they've distributed to their loved ones the funds by the ministries to be distributed to the National Investment Plan. No one knows the purposes or the projects, or the ones that have been handed over, or those for which public procurement procedures have been initiated. What is their destiny? That will be decided by those who treat our money as owners and our lives, not just our money. Just two more laws that follow the budget I have to mention. The budget is a picture and the government's intention and what it does and what it's going to do. This government has told the Excise Act what it does. What's called complete liberalisation since 2000, here, continues with this law. Importers of non-alcoholic beverages shall be equated with domestic producers. For those of you who are going to be on planes, we're going to release kerosene, that's a proposal for various taxpayers in these cases, excise. Those who drive on auto-gas, charge to feed the family, we'll add six, ten dinars to the existing price. What is scariest, this law loses the right to refuse excise duties for manufacturers, i.e. entrepreneurs and legal persons dealing with construction production; when they buy diesel for a construction machine, it will no longer be the subject of refaction. Release the kerosene, to open up to all importers anything that is not liberalized to the end, but one thing I ask you – don't write in an explanation that you could have done without the law, but you are, well, nice and you are doing it in a legal way. This is really offensive. And on page 8 of that bill, you write that all interested people had a chance to make a statement about the law, and we got this on Friday at 4:00 today and we're discussing it and don't write that you could have done it without the law, because you can't do it without the law. On the occasion of individual amendments, you will get the arguments of Serbian radicals for many items. Keep in mind that we are doing this job because the citizens have chosen us to open four eyes in their name and, if possible, if we can't prevent it, even if we can't prevent them from knowing how responsible you are and what you're talking about and what you're doing. The money and the way to make it available to him is the best picture of you and think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2761	Thank you. I am informing the MPs that, under Article 85(4), we will continue to work on these points of the agenda and after 18.00 hours for the reason that we have scheduled the Fourth Extraordinary Session this week, where we will have a large agenda. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic, head of the G17 Plus Parliament Club, and then we will set a lunch break.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2762	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, in the history of modern financing and finance, Serbia only had a budget surplus twice, in 2005 and 2006. According to the 2006 Budget System Act, the surplus amounted to 21.3 billion dinars; incomes were 499.1 billion, and expenditures were 477.8 billion dinars. This, in 2007, we're talking about the budget exactly halfway through the calendar year. Exceptionally, in this year, we had six months of temporary funding for first parliamentary elections and then the multi-month process of forming the government. According to the 2007 budget proposal, the deficit will be 0.6% of gross social product or 13.6 billion dinars, which means that the fiscal score for this year is 1.6% of gross social product worse than last year's. Budget expenditures are 20% higher this year than last year's. The largest item on the divisive side is compensation for employees - 153 billion dinars. Last year, for these purposes, 115 billion dinars were spent and an increase of as much as 38 billion or 33%. The macroeconomic projection for 2007 says the gross social product will grow by 5.9% and inflation will be 6.5%, which means budget expenditures have increased by more percentage points than GDP growth. This raises the question whether the projected inflation rate will be sustainable. Of course, it is very important to continue the co-ordinated functioning of fiscal and monetary policy, and according to everything, the burden will fall again on the National Bank of Serbia, which by restrictive measures will have to maintain price stability and reject inflationary pressures. All agree that Serbia's biggest problems are high unemployment and high current balance of payments deficits. The unemployment rate is among the highest in the region, only Macedonia has a higher rate than Serbia. The average unemployment rate in the European Union is 7.6%. In 2005, if we remember, the National Employment Strategy for 2005-2010 was adopted, as well as the 2006-2008 Action Plan. However, less than two billion dinars will be allocated to active employment measures from this year's budget. According to data from the Institute of Statistics in October 2006, there are 692,000 unemployed in Serbia, which gives a rate of 21.6% to comparable international methodologies. The National Employment Service implements this programme of active measures, such as self-employment programmes and the "Station to Work" programme, training programmes, requalifications, which are very important because they show that the structure of the unemployed does not meet the needs of the economy. They're not general-type programs, they're specific, for employers who are looking for employees. Of course, the key factor for increasing employment is the arrival of foreign investors and the creation of new jobs. Serbia last year had a record inflow of foreign investment, over $4 billion. This year, he will not be able to count on a quarter of that amount and should make every effort to boost direct greenfield investments through subsidisation on every new unemployed worker. Instead of failing giants and the famous resuscitation of production, subsidies should be given to anyone who opens a new job, whether it's a domestic or foreign employer. Beginners need to get loans without a mortgage, with the lowest interest rate of one percent on the annual level. We need to continue the microcredit program for self-employment, for all those who have a good business idea. The Development Fund should approve loans for trade, small and medium-sized enterprises. With only a combination and consistent application of all these measures (this list has not been closed) Serbia has the chance to cut the unemployment rate in the next five years, which would be an extraordinary success, given the fact, let's say, that Poland and Slovakia have halved the unemployment rate three years after entering the EU. Like I said, salary policy wasn't exactly great in the pre-government period. Where the negative impact of the absence of wage policy is seen is foreign trade. The current balance of payments deficit in the first quarter of this year was twice as high compared to the same period last year. Imports increased at a significantly higher rate than expected or desired, above all because there is no quality offer of domestic products, so the wage growth was overrun to purchase products from imports. Many of our companies are not competitive because we have not adopted the relevant European technical regulations and standards without which we cannot export our goods to the European market. The solution is to speed up the process of restructuring the economy, privatisation and new foreign direct investment, which will increase the domestic supply of goods, and only then come the incentive measures to exporters. Structural reforms are the key to resolving the problem of Serbia's economy in the medium term. The privatisation of social enterprises, already certain, will not be able to end this year, as the law requires, but should end next year, as there are around 1,250 companies left to privatise. The laws that we have passed here in the National Assembly allow the bankruptcy procedure to be carried out quickly and the firm in bankruptcy ends up in the hands of a strategic investor, so someone who will continue production, but relieved of the debts of the past. In the end, we all know that the International Monetary Fund recommended that Serbia should have a 3% surplus of gross social product this year. This did not happen, but this deficit would not be controversial if public expenditure were at the expense of capital investments, and we see from the attached that expenditure was increased in favour of wages, material costs and subsidies. Mr. Minister, I trust you when you say that the expenditures couldn't have been reduced due to the state of affairs, as you said, previously agreed obligations, but I ask you to explain to us during the debate what you found in the state register, which is the obligation you have to fulfil. Because in the first six months of this year, the budget had a surplus of 30 billion dinars. The rate of GDP growth was 8.8%. The budget's foreign reserves were almost 1.1 billion euros, which could remain intact throughout the year and be transferred to 2008. We are aware that the budget is not in trouble, it does not stand for sure, but we are concerned about the structure of the expenditure. Once again, please explain this to us during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2763	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2764	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I am Balint Pastor, and I will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and the views of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians regarding the proposed budget for 2007. If I wanted to be ironic, I would have to thank the government for finally allowing MPs in mid-June to adopt the budget for the current year. Still, I don't want to be ironic because the situation isn't ironic or grotesque, it's tragic or tragic. The government passed the draft budget law for June 14, 2007, which is tragic. The MPs had two days, Saturday and Sunday to get acquainted with the draft budget, an act that is the most important and complex act in the practice of parliaments, as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is tragic. So much for Mr. Dulic telling the president of the National Assembly before his election that he would do anything to restore his lost dignity. You said that too, Mr President, that they must work together both ruling and opposition MPs. In this way, you call a session not only to make it a blind voting machine from the National Assembly to the extent it has not been so far, but to prevent MPs from carrying out their most basic tasks. But I certainly have some excessive demands when I think it would be most normal for MPs to have at least seven days, as it is according to the Rules of Procedure, to read such a complex and important act as the draft budget and to consult with experts and possibly prepare some amendments. This is the way the National Assembly cannot restore dignity, and the opposition cannot be blamed for this. I should probably also be happy because Serbia seems to be coming out of a constitutional and illegal state as regards the functioning of the budget system. Finally, it's probably like the last country on the globe, and our country is going to get a budget for 2007, in the second half of June. Because, to remind you, the legalist technical government of the DSS extended the provisional financing of the Republic of Serbia by March to the end of June of the current year, contrary to Article 28. Budgetary system law. We must also remind ourselves that although, at the end of March, both the leaders and MPs of the DS and G17 plus considered this regulation illegal, and even against the constitution, they had stopped presenting these views since May 15th. But everything changes. So we should be happy that at the end of June and our country will get the budget for the current year. We should be happy because the government will not extend the temporary funding by a regulation, for example, until 31 December 2022, but has proposed a budget. But I have to be a mood breaker. What was the system of budgetary financing in the first half of the so-called The budget year, thanks to irresponsible politicians who need four months to draw up the government, is the same as the proposed budget. But it doesn't have to surprise us. Prominent Serbian lawyer Valtazar Bogisic wrote in the General Property Code hundreds of years ago "what the coat of arms is born, time does not correct". However, I would like to say a few sentences about the content of the proposed budget. We will not vote against the proposed budget just for a few procedural reasons, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will vote against the budget and because of the unacceptableness of its content. Now, I would not like to comment on the fact that the proposed budget is not sufficiently developed in the last few days, even some members of the ruling parties, who are also experts in this area. I would not comment more on the fact that for science or environmental protection in Serbia only a small amount is still planned against huge amounts to finance the needs of the military or police. Of course, we shouldn't waste words saying that Vojvodina and local self-government didn't get anywhere near the means they were supposed to get. I'm still going to point out a few facts. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians has repeatedly stressed that it is of the utmost importance that in municipalities where national communities live in a significant number, the volume of funds that the state invests in the development of economy and infrastructure is significantly increased, i.e. to support small and medium-sized enterprises. We also believe that it is of paramount importance that the state provides adequate and secure financial resources for the functioning of the National Theatre in Subotica, the Novosad Theatre, the Cultural Institute of Vojvodina Hungarians from Sainta, the Cultural Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, the Publishing House "Forum", as well as institutions that are relevant to other national communities. There's no sign of this in the proposed budget. From the indicative figures of the proposed budget, it is not possible to recognise such an intention by extensive interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now a few concrete figures. I have repeatedly reminded you from this pay phone that one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia is made up of members of national minorities. Of course, I do not claim that minorities should receive one third of the budget, because the Alliance of Duke Hungarians has always been recognizable because it is realistic, objective and constructive, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for programmes in the field of international co-operation, national creation and the creation of national minorities, a total of 13 million and 508,000 dinars are foreseen. It is a 26th division, function 820, economic classification 424 - Ministry of Culture. So a total of 13 million. There was Mr. Culture Minister, now he's not in the O.R., so I can't ask him if we can be safe about the plan for the reconstruction of the National Theatre – Népszínház from Subotica, which should be foreseen by the budget. I hope it's supposed to be somewhere, but we can't read that from the proposed budget for the current year. Yes, and I'm not talking about the lack of a national minority fund. On the basis of Article 20, The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was to be established as early as 2002, with the aim of fostering the social, economic, cultural and general development of national minorities. The Fund, under the Law, should take part for the fifth year in funding activities and projects from budgets related to improving the position and developing cultural creation of national minorities. In addition to this shameful number of 13 million dinars, national minorities are mentioned only in one place in the proposed budget for 2007 – funds intended to finance national councils of national minorities of 63 million dinars. This is division 12, function 160, economic classification 481 - Ministry of Finance. There are two problems about this number. One is of a formal nature. The name of the sub-assembly is – grants to NGOs. I would like to remind the finance minister and all the MPs and members of the government that national councils are not NGOs, but, on the basis of Article 75. Constitution and Article 19. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, I quote: "National Councils represent a national minority in the field of official use of language, education, information in the language of national minorities and cultures, participate in the decision-making process or decide on issues from these areas and establish institutions from these areas. "The National Council is by no means a civil organisation and funding should be arranged in a way that national councils represent a special budget item. All national councils, which are currently 14 since 2002, have jointly advocated this. The other problem is essential. For 14 national councils of national minorities, 63 million and 100,000 dinars are foreseen for the whole year. Currently, 14 national communities have formed their own advice. So 63 million 100,000 dinars for 14 councils, which are the highest bodies of the cultural self-government of national minorities under the Constitution and the law. So that's four and a half million per tip a year. How can advice to carry out their obligations, especially Hungarian, Bosniak, Roma, Croatian or Slovak, if a total of 63 million dinars is foreseen? National councils have been asking for 150 million dinars this year. Is it not the demeaning of members of one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia that the funds for this year have been increased only by the symbolic 100,000 dinars compared to 2006 and by the 2006 budget? Not to mention, in the meantime, two other national councils of national minorities have been formed. How will individual MPs sitting in the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, who are otherwise the leaders of individual national councils, say Slovak or Croatian, explain this after voting for this budget? Why does the government not meet at least MPs from ruling parties if it does not come to the meeting of MPs from opposition parties? Instead of asking additional, probably only rhetorical questions, I want to conclude: not only is there not a special ministry of minority rights, not only is there not a special assembly committee for national minorities, and that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians has not proposed an amendment to the rights of national minorities would practically not be mentioned in the Law on the Protection of Citizens, but we are almost not in the budget. This is a direct signal to members of the national minorities that they are in the parties so-called. The democratic bloc is only about the votes of national minorities, and there is no sincere desire to finance their priorities. We hope that the government's stance on these priorities will change over the financial year. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians is always ready to talk. I would also like to say that MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians have submitted an amendment to the proposed 2007 budget, which is scheduled for national councils to have, instead of 63 million and 100,000 dinars, 163 million dinars, and I ask the MPs to adopt this proposed amendment. I say, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians is always ready to talk, but because of the intention and desire to draw attention to these facts, the SVM will now vote against the proposed budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2765	I thank Mr. Balint Pastor. I've been setting a break for an hour. We'll continue our work at 5:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2766	Dear People's MPs, we continue our afternoon work. Is the National MP Radovan Radovanovic present? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic, representative of the DSS - NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2767	Mr. Chairman, I am not very happy to speak in front of a half-empty hall when we bring the most important document, at least when it comes to the work of the executive government and when it comes to the work of parliament, the most complex document, I mean the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007. But, my God, there's the public of Serbia who's following this on TV, so I hope that at least that part of Serbia will hear me. I will remind you that this year's draft budget of the Republic of Serbia is being made late, for justified reasons. In fact, we can't blame the Minister of Finance or the Republic Government for what it is. We had a broad debate about the formation of the Republic government, and now it takes half a year for us to access this document. He was proposed by the government, came before us. As far as I can hear from the representatives of the opposition parliamentary groups, we haven't heard any real objections when it comes to this draft budget, we haven't heard what the essence of this budget would be. Of course, every MP cannot be satisfied with all the solutions individually, but when we hear individual opposition MPs, especially from Vojvodina, I cannot without even answering them with a question – how do you think the citizens of the rest of the Republic feel, who certainly do not have these development funds and such opportunities as the citizens of Vojvodina? Of course, the Republic of Serbia is thinking very well when it comes to Vojvodina. We want this kind of thinking to be about all of Serbia, not just the Vojvodina. So when you criticise the budget in that section where you mention the rights of the Vojvodina, then consider that this budget is not only tangling the Vojvodinas, but tangling all citizens of Serbia. The 2007 budget bill envisions revenues of approximately 582 billion dinars and expenditures of 595 billion dinars, which means we have about 13.7 billion deficits. That deficit is only 0.6% of gross social product, which means it's not much. I don't think that can be a problem right now. Even if we expect budget inflows to be greater than planned and perhaps not all projects to be implemented during 2007, we can say that this is a highly balanced document offered to MPs. Tax revenues are estimated to be around 517 billion dinars this year, while non-tax revenues will be 65 billion. The objectives of this budget are the objectives which all of us, therefore, are macroeconomic stability, dynamic economic growth and an increase in employment and citizens' standards. So this is, among other things, the development budget. What should be added is that transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations amounting to 147 billion dinars, i.e. 14% more than in 2006, enough to cover our fellow citizens' transitions. It's overnecessary. We are aware of this and we support this document before the MPs. It is also proposed that around 7.5% of total budget expenditure be directed towards the National Investment Plan, therefore, building infrastructure as one of the foundations of the development of our republic, the development of all regions, as an opportunity to expand investment investments both domestic and foreign investors, in order to create new jobs. That's the development part of the budget that must certainly have the support of all of us. Public debt payments are also foreseen during 2007 amounting to 42 billion dinars, with half of this figure referring to old foreign currency savings and the rest on foreign debt. The budget is planned on the basis of an estimate that economic growth this year will be 5.9%, inflation 6.5%, that exports will be higher by 26.8% and imports by 23.7%. There is a problem of trade imbalance between imports and exports. This deficit certainly burdens our economy, but it is also on businesses, not only in the state, to ensure that our goods are curent and that a good part of our goods is directed towards the domestic market, and not that many things, I would say almost unnecessary, we import. With little investment, with the ability to produce in our country, importing many things is unnecessary. On this occasion, I will also take advantage of the minister's presence and try to ask him to pay attention to manipulation and corruption at our borders. It seems to me that from our neighbouring republics, with which we have contracts on duty-free goods exchange, manipulations are being made, and that some of the items from neighbouring countries come without customs and threaten domestic production. If it were their products 100 percent, of course we would support it, we would not have these remarks, but it is products that are neither produced in Bosnia nor in Macedonia, and they come here without customs and threaten domestic production. We'll talk about it another time. (President: I ask the People's Messengers to listen more carefully to the speaker. ) When it comes to amending the Property Tax Act, the transfer of absolute rights tax will be reduced from 5% to 2.5%. This measure concerns not only the purchase of the first apartment, to remind, but all the purchased apartments. The amendments also provide for the exemption from sales tax or VAT when buying the first apartment, depending on whether the apartment is purchased by the owner or by the construction company. So we're allowing citizens to reach the roof over their heads and I think that's the benefit they need to take advantage of at this point. Also, it was suggested that VAT be reduced from 18% to 8% when it comes to computer equipment. This will primarily enable young people to be compatible with their peers from abroad, who, of course, are running away from us in information. Excises on imports of non-alcoholic beverages, fruit juices have been lifted. The excise on coffee has been reduced, while the excise on tobacco products has been changed in accordance with our international obligations. These changes introduce excise duty on auto-gas. I will draw attention to our concerned citizens who have aggregates in their auto-gas cars that the price of auto-gas will not exceed 39 or 40 dinars, which is still twice as cheap as gasoline. It should be recalled that there are renewable energy resources that the state, in line with how the industry develops in the area, will release certain duties. However, this is a energy that is a limited resource and simply needs to make one real difference between renewable and non-renewable energy resources. That is one of the objectives, as well as the total of the revenue budget. I'm gonna use the first ten minutes right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2768	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2769	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, Rule 2 - The MP shall state which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his view, is injured, that it is quoted, explained etc. I mention this because the previously authorised DSS representative misread my comment on the draft budget, the part where I spoke about Vojvodina. Our concern for Vojvodina cannot possibly be interpreted as ignoring the need for the rest of Serbia. We see Vojvodina as an autonomous province that is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. We reminded you of the rights stemming from the Constitution, which are being violated by this budget. Article 3 of the draft budget said that funds to cover the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget for 2007 were provided in accordance with Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does this budget respect that constitution or not? This can easily be determined by an analysis of the budget itself. Twenty-one billion are being transferred to the AP Vojvodina to meet constitutional criteria, but when an analysis of the budget shows that only the Ministry of Finance of Mr Cvetkovic is doing so, only within the Ministry of Finance mentions the money transferred to Vojvodina. Nineteen billion disappears in this budget, depending on the goodwill of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a violation of the Constitution and at this point it is very important to point out, in fact, one principle that is much greater than the issue of Vojvodina and its position within Serbia, which is the attitude of this country towards a completely unacceptable attitude, the notion that it is forbidden to live in Serbia as it is done. If the budget does not define this principle as a principle that is respected, what other law defines it? We advocate that people live as they do, and that in their lives it is as they deserve, and not as someone else does. The constitution obliges the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make 7% of the Republic's budget a minimum basis for the Autonomous Region's budget, 21 billion must be transferred, and the budget clearly transfers only two and we point to that, not jeopardising anyone's interests outside the Autonomous Region. It is the right of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, those who vote for the DSS, those who vote for LDP, those who vote for regional parties, for a radical party, that is the right of people who want to be treated, to be educated, to drive better roads, not to suffer in one year of flood and drought, and that is all that is happening in Vojvodina, because someone has such an arrogant relationship with people living in the province, and that someone is the current authority and should change it. That is why we have written an amendment that essentially translates into this simple relationship to life. We want people in Serbia to do what they do, to you in Pogorevec and someone in Novi Sad, but if someone thinks they can paralyze other people's efforts and work, then they'll destroy whoever's worth it and disappear in their own way. So do not misread our views, but take care of what is your constitutional obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2770	Replica, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2771	Mr. Jovanovic, I'm ready to take half an hour to show you that you're wrong. Go ahead, go into the hallway, I'll explain it to you right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2772	The word has been given by MP Radovan Radovanovic, authorised representative of the Vojvodjanski MPs' group -- the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina -- the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2773	I am sorry, but at first I have to realize that the current finance minister is far worse for this country than the previous one, because this one has proposed a law that will make 13 billion deficits, and we have heard that it is earlier, except that he has suggested that his budget be 32 billion, he has managed to achieve a 21 billion surplus. There is no proposal, nor have we heard from anyone here, which part of the government has suggested, except that it has the signature of Mr. Djelic, this law, whether he who is in session on Thursday or Friday. I must inform you that the Vojvodina MPs are not going to vote for this bill, and the reason for this is that this country has gained strength and in its new constitution has set an accurate percentage of income for the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, and it is not, as Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said, 21 billion, but if you take the aid to calculate, gentlemen, we will exclude those 65 billion that, under the bill of law, are the government of the Republic of Serbia's own income, it will remain 595.5 billion, and therefore Vojvodina belongs to at least 41,686,245.027 dinars. Article 3 The bill is prescribed by Article 4 of last year's law, although the Constitution that obliges both the Government and all of us to behave accordingly has been passed. You took it from that last year's member four. 18% of the income tax on citizens, and no one in Vojvodina understands that 18%, as we did not understand those seven, but God forbid that at least those seven live. You said the company's profit tax to the Dukes belonged to 42.7% of what is collected in their territory. Dear gentlemen, there is no mechanism in Vojvodina, nor a way to control, if you vote such a law, whether you pass us what belongs to us, because statistics and all other jury accounts are being conducted in Belgrade and the government. Last year, for cultural programmes for the AP Vojvodina, they proposed a budget of 798 million, and the Vojvodina probably improved culturally, so this year it was reduced by 101 million. I have to complain that we in the Vojvodjani MPs were not worthy as colleagues from the SRS, so we failed to read this for the weekend, so we made an effort today to find and bring our amendments together, but when we submitted part of the amendment, the service said we were late. They wouldn’t even accept us to multiply and divide in the congregation. I'll take the opportunity to read one of these amendments. Article 3 of the first general part of the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia is deleted as it should be, according to us, as follows: "The funds for covering the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget for 2007 are provided in accordance with Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with three weeks of the AP Vojvodina budget being used to finance capital expenditures, from the transfer funds transferred from the budget, amounting to 41,686,227 dinars, and other revenues made in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The funds for expenditure on education staff in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the law, shall be provided at the amount of 18,809,692,125 dinars. The expenditure on funding part of the programme in the field of culture shall be provided in the amount of 697,608,000 dinars. Payments under Article 2(2) shall be paid at the height and by the dynamics established by the Government. The budget of the AP Vojvodina shall pay the salaries referred to in Article 2 on the following day from the date of receipt of the funds for these purposes to an account. "It is not clear to us, in our parliamentary group, why it gave up the idea to pass the Law on the Assembly before this year's budget. Is this 195 million, how much more did the Assembly get in 2007 than in 2006, the cost of not achieving this idea? I would like to meet citizens that the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken unemployment too seriously in this country, so I have made sure that, among other things, it plans for 39 State Secretarys to be 120% of the number of employees in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, that in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia there is a 260% increase in the number of employees and that more than 600 new employees are working in the government of the Republic of Serbia since the middle of this year. This is not, in our opinion, an incentive for employment in the Republic of Serbia, but a new imposition on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2774	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2775	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, when it comes to budgeting, of course, that the budget reflects the economic policy the government intends to lead in one financial year. The specificity of this budget is that we adopt it in June, which we have so far had temporary funding, which has greatly defined assumptions for the 2007 budget concept. With this in mind, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance, the other ministers in the government, for having managed to prepare a quality budget proposal in record time, given the circumstances in which the budget proposal was prepared in less than a month. We are today discussing a budget that can be characterised both as social and developmental, and as a budget that contributes to further efforts on macroeconomic stabilisation. What's very important, and what wasn't a feature of the last budget, is that required level of transparency. I'm going to try to make a comment right from these angles. I would like to say earlier that the DS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this draft budget and other accompanying laws. Why they'll vote, as soon as possible. First, we believe that the budget has really defined the amount of revenue. Given the results made during the first five months, it is clear that the total budget revenue of more than 580 billion dinars is something to be realised in 2007, especially given that as part of the revenue there is also income from the third mobile phone license. So reality is one of the characteristics of the 2007 budget. Also, the 2007 budget found the reality that preceded these preparatory actions, which is that wages in the social non-economic sector increased by more than 20% in the previous period. If someone believes that this salary increase will affect inflation and further destabilise macroeconomic conditions and the environment, then they are wrong, because further destabilising macroeconomic stability can only come if the budget deficit is foreseen without real coverage. It seems to me that most of us here don't realize that the proposed budget deficit is already covered. It is covered by realised privatisation revenues in the previous year and will be further strengthened by realised privatisation revenues, i.e. revenues to be realised in 2007. At this moment, the account of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is slightly less than a billion euros. It is realistic to expect that this year's privatisation revenue will be at least 500m euros, given the implementation of the first four months, which is around 220m euros, even with some capital transactions missing. In other words, the budget of the Republic of Serbia will have, and that is what many MPs do not understand, the difference between cash flow and success. I don't understand. The MPs who don't understand don't have to answer for themselves, I didn't think of them. So what the budget treats as a privatisation income is not at all on the bulky side of the budget, these are the funds that will contribute to making the Republic of Serbia, therefore our state, through the necessary balance of payments. So that's the part that relates to settlement of liabilities based on predominantly domestic but also foreign debt. On the other hand, the reality of the 2007 budget is also in that it is a support for the expected intensifying of structural changes in Serbia's economy. I'll look back on that part later. I believe that the budget contributes additionally to macroeconomic stability, because I am sure that by adopting the budget and by clearly defining not only budgetary but overall economic policies, synchronous will finally be achieved in the measures managed by the central bank and, on the other hand, by measures led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We had quite an expansion budget policy in the previous period. The result of the budgetary expansion policy is that the central bank led a very rigid credit-monetary policy. We now expect that there will be a decline in rigidity in credit-monetary policy; with a clearly defined budget deficit, with clearly defined funds to cover the budget deficit, I believe that by synchronising that good part of the economy will start to breathe much better and that much better results will come true. The growth of the social gross product of 5.5%, given the growth in the past few years that has been moving at 7%, seems to me to have been 6% or slightly higher for the past year, is an affordable category, which, in my opinion and the DS's opinion, will, without some major problems, be achieved, but we also believe that it is good that the lower rate of growth of 13.5% of total earnings is foreseen compared to what was achieved in the previous period. This, with slightly higher expected productivity growth, will further contribute to the stabilisation of overall macroeconomic opportunities. So, a real deficit of 0.6%, which is, you saw from the presentation of the finance minister, comparing with other countries in transition to the smallest, if the deficit that has been projected in Montenegro is excluded, I am sure that it will further contribute to the stabilisation of total macroeconomic flows and that the projected inflation rate of 6.5%, if other macroeconomic projections are realised, will be achieved and achieved, which means that we can expect to have a single-digit inflation in 2007, which is a further introduction, I think, with faster structural changes, into permanent macroeconomic stability. When we say that the 2007 budget is developmental, and without jeopardising stability, because I remind you, in this assembly, we had attempts at development budgets with great consequences for macroeconomic stability, then I primarily think of an extremely significant growth in capital expenditures, i.e. capital investments, and that of public capital investments. You will see, or you have already seen, in the budget that with about 7% of this in 2007 will be more than 11% of the total social gross product. In other words, by more than 37.4 billion dinars, capital expenditure increases. The paper compared to the previous year is that these capital expenditures are financed from regular budget revenues, unlike the originally imagined National Investment Plan, which was to be financed exclusively from extraordinary revenues, therefore from the funds achieved by privatisation. I think it is a good thing that the National Investment Plan is returning to regular funding flows, because this will ensure the long-term effort on the capital investment plan, i.e. public investment run by this and future executive power. I think that at this moment the government is in a situation, given the degree of restructuring of the Serbian economy so far, that most of the funds achieved through privatisation are being rerouted, on the one hand, to finance infrastructure projects, and on the other, that some of these funds are aimed at encouraging new employment. You will see later, although this is also an opportunity to point out that 14 billion dinars have been allocated to the National Employment Service. In relation to the previous funds, therefore, especially the dedicated funds set out to encourage and stimulate new employment, compared to the amount from the previous budget, these are significant funds and this is a significant moment which further speaks of the development function of the budget ahead of us. On the other hand, or thirdly, the budget has its own social dimension. When I say "social," I mean, first of all, still very high-level separations, transfers to, first of all, the Pension Insurance Fund. More than 95 billion dinars are scheduled for transfers from the budget, but it is obvious that the Pension Insurance Fund does not have enough funds to meet all needs for pension payments to pensioners. It's kind of a consequence that we're going to be removing over a long period of time in the coming years. It is certain that this pressure will decrease with a further reform of pension insurance expected in the coming years, which is one day, in two or three years, when state finances are able to implement the second pillar of pension insurance. In any case, the budget continues to retain this strong social role, as a significant part of the budget is being transferred to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and that's good. On the other hand, it is good to continue to strengthen the role of the Transition Fund, from which additional employment must be stimulated by people working in large social systems in the strategic crisis, which will be restructured in the coming period. These people have to be further assisted and this is exactly where this second social role of the 2007 budget is seen. In the end, if we link it, there were many who were easy to discuss and concluded that wages should be cut, why not, which have been significantly increased in the meantime, especially since December of last year. First, we need to know where the salaries are raised. Salaries have been raised primarily in health care, education, culture, not in the state administration. Yes, yes, by so much less than previous salaries increased in the state administration in 2005. I believe that these professions in education, culture require and deserve increased wages and that it would indeed be quite demagogue now to break a spear if there are no other mechanisms to preserve stabilisation, or macroeconomic stability, by bearing this burden on the very layer of society. After all, this effort by implementing this previous salary growth, without some significant corrections or without trying to correct it, is, among other things, the social function of the budget that is ahead of us. In particular, I think there was no need for such a thing, I think of additional pay cuts negotiations, given the overall budget revenues planned for 2007. What is particularly important is the transparency of the budget. When I say transparency, then I mean clearly shown certain budget positions that were so far, or at least it was planned to be, below the line. I mean the National Investment Plan. It is good that it is part of regular budget expenditures, not extraordinary budget expenditures below the line, because in this way we have full consistency in monitoring the National Investment Plan. It is not a separate part that is not within the framework of regular budget expenditures and thus the control of the implementation of the National Investment Plan projects will be much more effective, simpler. I am sure it is to the joy of all MPs sitting in parliament today, because the role of Parliament, among other things, is to supervisore what the executive authority is doing. What is missing, and I hope that this will be further corrected by new information from the government, is what the projects of the National Investment Plan that will be implemented in 2007, which will literally be committed, and the realisation will also be in 2007 and 2008. I know that such a project plan exists, and with that supplement, we will have all the necessary elements to supervise the spending of funds from the National Investment Plan. Once again, I think that the key achievement of this budget when it comes to capital investment is that the National Investment Plan is not seen as an excess, as something that happens in two or three years just because we have sold part of family silver, or something called the sale of infrastructure assets, but it is good to establish a very high category of public capital investment, and it will be mandatory for every future government, regardless of the political parties that the government is forming. I am sure that this will be the joy of all our citizens, because this is the only way we can raise the quality of the infrastructure in Serbia, given that such a type of investment is not profitable enough for private investors. The budget also contributes to financial decentralisation, and I am sure that this is a good introduction to something that will only happen when we pass adequate laws that will allow full decentralisation in Serbia, through a clear set of transfer payments towards local self-government, primarily according to territorial autonomy; I believe this is a particularly important contribution. I'll remind you that total transfers towards territorial autonomy and local self-government are up 54%. It remains for us, together with the MPs of the AP Vojvodina, to control whether three weeks of these funds will really go for capital expenditure, which I absolutely have no doubts about. In the end, I would like to say that in addition to these general solutions, that is, to these general characteristics that I tried to, on behalf of the Democratic Party parliamentary group, first and foremost explain to the citizens what is in this budget and why this budget... Madam Radeta, please let's listen to the speaker. Mr. Chairman, I absolutely don't mind that. First of all, I'm talking to citizens who understand very well what I'm talking about here. So, in addition to these general, very important places that I was talking about when it comes to the 2007 budget, by adopting the bill together with the budget, we will also have some concrete measures to enable citizens to have, at least in that part, a better standard of living. I think this is a very important moment, given that this is about, in fact, realising something that is a matter of political promise. So far, citizens have always been determined in the elections depending on the political offer of certain political parties, but very rarely the political offer has been passed through the adoption of appropriate laws. I think a very good move is the government's proposal for a general reduction in the tax on the transfer of absolute rights from five to two and a half percent. It is also very important that when buying the first apartment of a particular category of citizens, according to the procedure, they will be exempt from paying this tax or value added tax, depending on which type of apartment is purchased. I also believe that the young population, but not only young but also older, will be happy when within seven days of the adoption of this law, when printed in the Official Messenger, it will be in a position to buy computers, along with software, significantly cheaper for the amount of value added tax, which will be 8% instead of 18% in the future. I also think it is very important that 150 million dinars be held as a special position within the Ministry of Finance. These are the funds provided for the scholarship of talented students, those who can't pay their own tuition or those students who need a scholarship to be able to realise their talent tomorrow at the benefit of our country and our people. I think it is very important in this way to put equality between a political promise and a later political realization. I am sure that the agrarian budget of 26 billion, which is significantly higher than the implementation of the previous period, will also contribute to agricultural production, through the restructuring of certain types of military production, in the coming period to much better and more significant participation in the creation of a total gross social product. I think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia to know that Serbia's total public debt is 9.3 billion euros, not 17 or 18 billion euros, how often we hear from individuals who do not distinguish public and private debt; public debt is a debt guaranteed by the state of Serbia. It is very important that citizens know that the total public debt is 32% of the total gross social product. It is very important for the citizens and for all of us MPs to know that there is no question of any debt crisis, of any debt slavery, that 500 million euros, as far as this year is going to be to settle the domestic one, above all the debt for the old foreign savings that occurred during the 1990s, I will not talk about what time it was then... Therefore, it is very important for citizens to know that the funds are already provided at this time and that payment of commitments based on old debts, i.e. debts guaranteed by the state, will run without any problems. It is also important for citizens to know – this is what is not directly seen from this budget, from certain budget items, one who knows how to read the budget will very easily conclude by finding only a few budget items – that the government is defined for further structural changes. There is no long-term macroeconomic stability without continuing further macroeconomic structural changes. This means restructuring of public enterprises, which means restructuring and privatisation of large social systems, because it is the only way to boost the competitiveness of the Serbian economy and achieve that ultimate goal, which is a balance or balance in external trade. It is evident, and you could all, dear MPs, read, the balance in all other macroeconomic parameters has already been achieved and it is incorporated in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2776	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and then MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2777	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I have to react to Mr. Vlahovic's performance because this is the first attempt at an argumentary defence of the budget. This is what was needed during this whole day's debate and it is, above all, the commitment of the Prime Minister, not you as an MP, Mr Vlahovic, because it seems grotesque when you as an MP praise the transparency of this budget, and as an MP you received three days ago. The second measure of transparency that you have shown so much is the one that you, by all of what you have done as a minister in our government and by what you are doing as a businessman, are deeply opposed. It's a good thing the National Investment Plan is in the budget, but it's a bad thing that no one, not even you, defends that National Investment Plan, can tell us how money will be spent. We don't need your guarantee right now that the government will let us know. We want to know how the money obtained by selling state property will be spent. This is how the National Investment Plan was formed. The state didn't create anything, it sold something. It's state property and we want to know how that money is spent. As for the macroeconomic stability that this budget provides, that I do not enter into an analysis of your position, I will give you the comment of the person you propose to be governor of the National Bank of Serbia and who has assessed this budget as macroeconomically dangerous, inflatoric and harmful. It is about the candidate for governor and current governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr. Jelasic. As for the development component of this budget, let's say one country in transition, which has been developing, without having previously made a social agreement on the price the country should pay in that transition and development. You mentioned here, and I don't think that was correct, our criticism of the salary hike. The fact is that the salaries have grown, as well as the budget, to a much greater extent than the one that is real and that monitors our economic development. We don't want the doctor to be a social case, a social worker, and a social case patient, but we want to say that this state can't spend more than it does, and that, finally and in those sectors, it's necessary to separate work from work, and in health care, and in education, and in the judiciary, and in the police and in the military, in every place where citizens' money is spent. That doesn't seem like this budget. As for the social component of the budget and the commitments that are settled against the vulnerable layers of the population, we can talk about it, but not the way you did it. The social role of the state is not demonstrated through reconciliations to those who are employed in the state and who work for the state. I warned you about the problem we have with the Health Insurance Fund. The fact is that there is no respect for the Health Insurance Act and more than 900,000 citizens will not be able to exercise their rights, because instead of 16 billion of these budgets, only three are defined. That's five times smaller, and more than five times less. It's students, students, old, sick. It's not a socially responsible move by the state. As for the growth and economic development that will contribute to this budget, that is not true, you know very well. If you believed that, then you wouldn't be a minister in our government. This budget makes our workforce 25-40% more expensive than the workforce in the environment, and that's a fact. We are prepared to participate in the debate and, of course, support any good idea, but here we need ministers who have to answer, which you can't do. Where, for example, money from the NIP and how the Ministry of Health will fulfil the obligation arising from the law and from the role the state must respect, versus the citizens and those it is obliged to help. We want to see the Minister of Police, the defence and the possibility of saving in these sectors, so that we can develop others.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2778	Thank you. Did you, ma'am, report to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Nikolic's name is in the Rules of Procedure. Is your replica on Mr. Vlahovic's exposure? Mrs. Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2779	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100 and Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I asked to get my word because Mr. Vlahovic spoke to one of the MPs without respect, forgetting that there are economists here who know the Budget System Act. Let me explain in the shortest possible. Since you mentioned "cash flow" and the budget, don't lead the citizens astray. I will read the legal definition – The Budget Law is a law whereby the National Assembly for each year approves expenditures and incomes and other receipts for the calendar year, and only the National Investment Plan is intended to be shown and implemented in years. Ms. Verica Radeta was right, the budget is from year to year; the Budgetary System Act clearly writes, but there is another issue. Don't convince us, the methodology for showing external debt is controversial. It is true that public government debt is over 50% of the total debt. Let me ask you - is the state responsible for what it calls private debt of banks, businesses and natural persons? Who listed the domestic banking sector and cleared the space for foreign banks and who formed the Agency for the Rehabilitation and Bank bankruptcy, so we have no idea where the funds, assets were found, and who has it? Is this state adviser to whom someone is referred or is obliged to warn the citizens that it can happen as in Vojvodina, please pay attention, in Vojvodina, almost half of the land and real estate are under the mortgage of Austrian banks, for those loans that start as short-term, and turn into long-term debt in revoking and re-indebted. Who's going to be responsible when the people in the next wave of privatisation are out of work, so they walk out the street when the mortgages are realized, and then they come in front of the government building? Are you going to say that the methodology isn't good? Just one more. For me, one more thing is very controversial. The biggest trustee in the London Club of this country was the Credit Agrikol Bank, the one in which shareholder Bozidar Djelic is. The second-largest trustee of the London Club – guess, Mr Pitic works in that bank – Sociate Generals. That's questionable, gentlemen of the Ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2780	Thank you. Mr. Vlahovic, just a little bit, since it's more of a reaction to your exposure, obviously, so let's take it in a row. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2781	I think you, Mr. Albianic, were obliged to warn Mr. Vlahovic to respect Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly, since this kind of love between two men is not normal even when it is hidden, let alone when it comes out of a congregation pay phone like this. So, what made Mr. Vlahovic this much to praise the new budget? The fact is, six years after the change in Serbia, nothing has changed. These two people were selling for one euro of our property. The two people rule Serbia again today, Mr. Vlahovic and his mentor, only now Vlahovic became a mentor, and Mr. Cvetkovic accepted the role of being a provisional finance minister. You praise the budget in which you envisioned the costs of the military, for the defense, for the President of the Republic and for everything else, and for where your laws are. Based on which you've defined the amounts to fund these... ? You praise the Budget Act as transparent, and where do you spend the money from the National Investment Plan? You're selling the best fields to build an alley. That's your National Investment Plan. What part of your cake will it be, Mr. Vlahovic? For Djelic, we know what he did when he stopped being a minister and we know what got into his pockets. What's going to happen to you? What is your symbiosis with Mr. Cvetkovic now and who and who will now be transparent about what is being sold, what is being bought and where money will be earned, who should be consulted to take, who should not take. How long will you think we're little kids, you DOS economists? You seven-eight robbed the whole country. (President: Mr. Nikolic, you can't give such flat-rate reviews. ) Perhaps for you, Mr. Albianic, as a mathematician selling one sugarcane for the euro is not cheap, for me it is. Perhaps for you, the sale of buildings to the Central Committee to a Democratic Party director, at the time, for the amount he later settled by selling two floors of that building, is not a robbery, Mr. Albianic. You're in a party where the word "the robbery" can't be mentioned, because it's self-critic. I'm talking about people who can talk. Everything is now suspicious when Vlahovic praises the budget. Vlahovic can praise a budget that has surpluses and can praise a deficit budget. Vlahovic can praise a deficit budget. Vlahovic can praise a budget that, he says, has no deficit, it will make up for privatisation, and it has already been compensated last year, and then says afterwards – that privatisation we will not use to settle the budget. You can only tell a child or someone who doesn't understand Serbian enough, Mr. Vlahovic. Your role wasn't good today. You were supposed to cut off this budget because the relationship between you and today's finance minister is such that he's got eyes. After all, when we are able to review the privatisations that you have done with your partner, beware.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2782	According to the Rules of Procedure, we must enable Mr Vlahovic, then Mr Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2783	I'm glad that my discussion has caused this much controversy, even if we don't get bored here in the assembly benches and that the citizens finally have reason to hold televisions and hear one exchange of arguments, which this assembly should look like. First, let me tell you, I'm not too happy that we got the budget very late, but we should keep in mind that the state is already in a longer period of time, since January of the month, in exceptional financing and that as soon as it has to get into the regular financing frameworks. The only way to get into a regular framework is to make budgets. The one who wanted to read the budget pedanically, consult his advisers, or reach the appropriate conclusions himself had plenty of time. Although, I am prepared to accept the criticism myself, as a representative of the positioning group, that it was relatively short time for a more detailed analysis of the budget. On the other hand, I have indeed performed very honestly and said that I expect that an integral part of this budget will, after its vote, be a list of projects that have been implemented under the National Investment Plan. I have no doubt in the way these projects are implemented, since there is something called the Public Procurement Act, which obliges the executive authority to respect the procedure of the Public Procurement Act. What I can guarantee you is that both the Finance Committee and all other Assembly committees will insist on verifying the transparency of the law on public procurement when it comes to the implementation of the projects of the National Investment Plan. Obviously, I was misread when I said there was a difference between, on the one hand, the projected budget and, on the other hand, the projected funds used to balance the balance of payments, obviously that there was a misreading. I absolutely agree with you when you say that the one-year budget covers all current expenditures and all, on the other hand, current revenues. But don't forget that there's something called a backlog, these are the appropriations that were made in the previous year and used, among other things, to pay for the obligations that the state has and which are not, among other things, in current expenditure positions. When I spoke of debt, I made it very clear that there was a difference between public debt and private debt. The public debt of 9.4 billion euros is the debt the state guarantees, all the rest is private debt. And that, Mrs. Tabakovic, is not even nearly so significant, private debt to the population. The majority of private debt is related to the economy, which has just wanted to avoid the very rigorous credit measures defined by the central bank, and has been owed through foreign destinations. In fact, it is this private debt that has grown dominantly, especially in 2006 and in part in 2005. I expect that, as a result of the synchronisation of budgetary policy on the one hand and the credit-monetary policy on the other, there will be a significant drop in the mandatory reserves in the business banks, as I believe that macroeconomic stability and the desired, targeted inflation can be achieved through the projected budget for 2007. There is no need for us to bring in additional pathetics and further harass the public with some claims that the population is over-indebted. That's not true. I would remind you that the government of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which was formed in 2001, has just proposed to the Assembly a law providing even payments not only to foreign savings from state banks, but even to private pyramid banks, and that the budget has been regularly serviced and paid regularly so far. This was called the transparent business of the Government of the DOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2784	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2785	Dear fellow Members, also Article 104(1). I want to ask Mr. Vlahovic – what do you congratulate the new government on? Congratulations on having already had one budget proposal in September last year, which was made at the full capacity of two of the current three, namely to apologize to New Serbia -- four, members of the new government. So that budget has already been done by the Democratic Party of Serbia and G17 plus, right? Well, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic was elected, probably due to inter-party trade, that same budget proposal was given again, so we got him twice. Now a question for you, since a new capacity has been introduced in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you like to call yourself that, with new capacity, the capacity of DS, why did it take you so long for the budget? Is it so different to access what they were growing in the previous period of DSS and G17 plus what the DS is looking for today, or is it a new policy, or is it, as far as I'm concerned, the new section of prey? If it's a new section of prey... (President: Mr. Bajatovic, please, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda, there is no prey. ) The chairman may not understand me very well, but as an MP, I want to be told what this is about, because Mr Vlahovic acted far more competently to me here, even as much better acquainted with the details of the budget than Mr. Minister. Perhaps my impression is bad. The MPs here may rightly ask such questions. Next, please, for the quality of the decision of one MP... It is said, from real sources, a national investment programme of 500m euros, I would very much like to, but there is a previous problem, for the next year you are forecasting two billion euros. Based on what strategy, gentlemen? Are the MPs right here who say that the National Investment Plan serves you however to be a moth and to share it, or does it have a basis in something called some national development strategy, so that we know exactly how many meadows we will have for greenfield investments, that we know which investments Serbia wants to attract and what investments we will invest in advance as our own so that others can come to what we have done. Gentlemen of the Radicals, here's another 30 seconds, as far as I can use. There's a reason to ask a question here, when you're looking at how it's distributed here... Unfortunately, we don't have any more time, otherwise Micko will turn off my microphone. I'd like to be clear and specific here when it comes to the AP Vojvodina. So autonomy is not a political issue, but I would like, as a Duchess or some local patriot, that these 7% be truly transparently distributed, that it depends not on the will of any minister, but also that the Republic of Serbia, or its government, has full insight into how these money intended for the Vojvodina will be spent, for the simple reason that some parties in Vojvodina have cracked - "we have our money", and when they get our money now they ask - where are our laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2786	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavisa Topalovic, then MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2787	Mr. Chairman, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Why would Mr. Vlahovic defend the budget? Here's why. I'd like an explanation. Since Mr Vojislav Kostunica, the prime minister, is not present, and it is generally known that he has not been informed in most cases, Mr Mićo, I would insist that you, as chairman, allow me and provide written answers from Kostunica, because I have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. Sticking to the foreign exchange "doesn't matter what he said, but who said it," I ask Vojislav Kostunica -- who is this man here, finance minister Mr Cvetkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2788	You had his biography during the government election, Mr. Topalovic, you could have read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2789	Mr. Albian, stop my time when you answer me. As far as I know, you are not Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. You might like to be, but listen to me, please. Was Mr. Cvetkovic the director of the Privatisation Agency? Yes, at a time when the Minister of Economy and Privatisation was Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic. Mr. Cvetkovic was at the same time co-owner of Ces Mekon's company, which dealt with the value of the company's capital. Is that true, Mr. Cvetkovic? Your partner's son at the firm was at the same time your deputy at the Privatisation Agency, a certain Mr. Nenezic. Of course, they were the listeners of Alexander Vlahovic. This Mr. Alexander Vlahovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2790	Please don't qualify people in such a way as to choose words, expressions, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2791	May I proceed, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2792	Go ahead, Mr. Topalovic, but don't read the parts of your biography.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2793	This Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, who now makes most of it with you in your government from the ruling coalition, was then a minister, as you yourself said and as you know, for economy and privatisation. Of course, let me let you know one more time, if you don't know that, Mr. Albianic. Remember some of his privatisations: "Hemofarm", where the state was damaged by about 90m euros, cements, sugars sold for one euro at a time, and at the same time only finished goods in the warehouse were about 100m or, at today's rate, about 120,000 euros, all for one euro. This is only a small part of the sins of Aleksandr Vlahovic from the past, whose director of the Privatisation Agency was Mr. Cvetkovic, the finance minister in your government, Mr. Kostunica. I'm talking to the Prime Minister, not you, Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2794	Your time is up, Mr. Topalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2795	Can I have another minute or should I call you back?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2796	Come on, finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2797	Thank you, sir. So I expect Mr. Kostunica to answer these questions. The latest theft of Mr. Vlahovic through his company "Eki Invest", where he is co-owner with Danko Djindjic, is the purchase of the company "New Home".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2798	Mr. Topalovic, please do not say such words for the assembly speaker. Choose words when you want to criticize someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2799	Mr. Albianic, can I continue for another minute or...? I need to get to know the public that these gentlemen bought 36,000 square metres of business space, of which only 30,000 square meters are in Belgrade itself, for 17.1m euros. I ask Prime Minister Kostunica, please, Mr Albianic, give me that written answer, where did they get all this money? Where did they get 17.1m euros for buying New Home and 36,000 square meters of business space? Where did the money come from, Mr. Vlahovic? Did this enable Mr. Vlahovic, then director of the Privatisation Agency, Mr. Cvetkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2800	Mr Topalovic, you must finish your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2801	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2802	Mr Topalovic, you must take care of how you address this assembly home, the MPs. Because of the weight of the words spoken by the previous MP, the word has been spoken by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, let us all take care of how we address each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2803	So, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, because I can really expect anything from this right-hand side of parliament, but the charges that are... From 100th to 104th, all members have been violated, Mrs. Radeta. So the accusations in which individuals here denunciate as in the glorious era of the famous red-and-black coalition, that's something I won't put up with. If you, sir, believe that the state, or the state authorities in Serbia, are not doing their job, I suggest you go ahead and start a private lawsuit against me. I am telling you in advance that I will never call on parliamentary immunity, as I did in 2004, when there were several attempts by the previous authorities to also deunify me publicly and try to defile what the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation did. Since you're so well-informed and on the subject of the New Home... Can I finish, Mrs. Radeta? So, when you're already so well informed about the New Home, which has been notified to the entire public, it's not some secret information that you've spectacularly discovered – yes, it's true that the "Eki Invest", the company where I am co-owner, participated in the privatisation of "New Home"; yes, it's true that the consortium, which includes "Nelt", and "Unigroup" and "Eki Invest", won the open, transparent tender with the best offer (unlike most of you, we participate in open transparent tenders, in open transparent procedures); yes, it's true that the price has been paid and it's true that the bank credit has been taken. This has been notified to all state institutions in this country. Sir, should I be ashamed of doing a fair job in this country, because my first job was not a member of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia? Am I to be ashamed because I regularly, in accordance with the law, and the law passed by the Government of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, because I have reported my property in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act? Am I to be ashamed that I pay taxes to this country regularly every year and that my entire business is within the legal frameworks? It's easy to glue a man's face and attach a lie which afterwards responds, but it responds to the nonsense that even more resonates, unfortunately, in this Parliament sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2804	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs Radeta, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and Vladan Batic, so you. Please be understanding. The weight of the words said by Mr Topalovic demanded a statement by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic, can we allow it? Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2805	Thank you very much, Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, Vladan Batic, Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović and Natasa Jovanovic. You were all reported to be speaking in the Rules of Procedure before Mr. Aleksandr Vlahovic. That's why I answered and insisted that I speak now, because you, Mr. Albianic, have injured the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not yours to assess whether someone, my God, is offended or injured, whether someone behaves like a village bride, so here complains and explains to Serbian citizens what Serbian citizens know. Mr. Vlahovic, we're not going to press charges against you, as you said, so you won't call for immunity, because there is no immunity in the case. The criminal proceedings will be conducted by the competent authorities, the public prosecutor, and at that time you will probably not have immunity, Mr. Vlahovic, and then you will explain what Mr. Slavisa Topalovic said, and you will explain to Cementar Popovac and Sartid, so you will explain a lot. The fact that you and your friend and party colleague Djelic think that Serbian citizens are crazy, so that you can say – it is not my first job to be a MP, so I am the smartest and I have managed to get rich, on this side at least 98% of people whose MP is not the first interest, so no one has become rich since he was an MP or before. Of course, good hosts manage to provide for their family, or they have succeeded until 2000, as much as normal life. You now, Mr. Vlahovic, boast that you are very smart, so you managed to earn. Of course, you have succeeded because many mouths have been detached so that you, Djelic and the rest of your brothers and bullument will have what you have, Mr Vlahovic. Don't play with the intelligence of Serbian citizens and MPs. Do you think, if you can put seven sentences together and try to prove to yourself that you're right, that people believe you? There's a lot of evidence, a lot of documents, you know it well, and the DA knows it, but we're waiting for a time when the DA and the D.A. are actually doing their job in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2806	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Vladan Batic. Thanks for the construction, for changing the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2807	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry, Mr. Vlahovic, for the situation you are in, but unfortunately, you are in a coalition with whoever opened the possibility of such a political reckoning in Serbia. You know who came to power in 2004 with the idea of reviewing privatisation, who criminalized both you and Mr. Cvetkovic. This is your current Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. Let's get back to discussing the budget. If we discuss the budget more seriously, we will live very quickly in Serbia where we value and success, and knowledge, and work, and these are the preconditions of the wealth that we want to affirm and who we seek. The more rich MPs, the more rich people in Serbia, the better everyone will be. A prerequisite for such a Serbia is a different attitude towards the budget. There is no reason to doubt your good will, but forgive me, for your coalition arrangements, do not expect us, LDP MPs, to believe that Velimir Ilic, respecting the Law on Public Procurement, will spend 11 billion dinars, as allocated to him through the resources of the National Investment Plan, without knowing for which projects. I won't remind you what you said about Mr. Ilic. Your coalition obligations do not oblige us. This budget is not as transparent as you said, because we do not know what Minister Ilic will spend his 11 billion on. This budget is not developmental, because four times the amount of funds that are allocated from the NIP to the police or the military is allocated to education, science or information society. As for the tax reliefs you're introducing, we support that, but that only solves the consequences. Why is Serbia a country where a man can't buy an apartment from his work? We have to answer that question, not lower the tax by 5%, making a mess in the tax system. Both Mr. Cvetkovic and you as an economist know, and I believe most MPs here, that the prerequisite for an effective tax system is equality and order. About 30% of children born today in Serbia are born in informal marriages, marriages that are not official in the municipality. I'm asking you, how will the purchase of the first apartment be done with that tax exemption, if it isn't the formal marriage community? How is that gonna prove it? Let's talk about essential reforms and go back one step and say first – in 2007, Serbia will, for the first time, spend only what it earns. The Duke remains a problem. Apart from the finance ministry, again Mr Cvetkovic, no other ministry has transferred money to Vojvodina. Of the 21 billion, as defined by the budget to comply with the constitutional criteria, 19 billion are not within the ministries in a transparent manner transferred to the AP Vojvodina. Two yes, 19 no. The big problem, and we have to take account of it, is the poor position of local self-government, which is not capable of fiscal decentralisation, which is discussed in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2808	The word is by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2809	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am re-advertising a violation of the provisions of Articles 219 and 220. Rules of Procedure. A set of laws on the agenda will produce many consequences for citizens and will be subject to various requirements for the assessment of constitutionality and will be necessary to bring temporary measures to those requirements. How, when we don't even have a Constitutional Court? You're obviously not interested in the Constitutional Court. How is it positioned in the draft budget? Obviously it's for this government's last hole in the play. May I have your attention for a few interesting parallels? Two cabinets, the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister, have planned expenditures greater than what will be spent on the needs of the Constitutional Court. Two cabinets! It is even more curiosity that the Bureau of Information or the Office for Media Cooperation has a higher budget than the Constitutional Court. This is your contribution to the affirmation of the rule of law and the rule of law. And even greater curiosity - travel costs of the General Secretariat of the Government are at the level of costs set out for the needs of the Constitutional Court. What is the General Secretariat of the Government, a travel agency? What's this about? I don't understand how you can defend yourself, especially from Mr. Vlahovic's mouth, such a budget. One more thing, with respect for the ministers present, is the ultimate irresponsible government whose president, vice presidents and ministers are not sitting here today in front of the MPs. The budget is in the hierarchy of legal acts after the Constitution second in a row, but obviously, what a constitution such as this and the budget – anachron, retrograde, outdated, without perspective, with nothing, just to get rid of. We wanted to ask the ministers a few more details. We have the right to do so. Look at the rules of the Rules of Procedure, so they can comment on it. Not Minister Cvetkovic is the minister of general practice. Several budget items concern several ministers and the entire government. I mentioned the planned expenses for the cabinet and about telling you something, two cabinets have planned... If you knew something, you'd respect the Constitutional Court, and since you don't know anything, then you don't respect it. After all, come out here and say it. So, two cabinets have planned revenues higher than the entire government of Zoran Djindjic. The division for the government was then 140 million, Vlahovic will remember that, and look how much for the Government of the Republic of Serbia's services today – more than six billion. The infamous Bureau, which in 2002 and 2003, you declared it infamous, had the approved and authorised funds five to seven times the current projection of the government's Office's costs for media relations. Since there are no ones who need to answer those questions, then in the future, we will say something more about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2810	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I didn't get a chance right after this exposé, or whatever it was called, Mr. Djelic or Vlahovic, I don't care as a citizen, it's all the same to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2812	Please make it clear to your personalities. Mr. Vlahovic is present, and Mr. Djelic is not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2813	I really don't know what a man's name is, does this man live in Serbia at all, and does he even speak to the Serbian people and the Serbian parliament. Do you even know what you have done to the country of Serbia during this time of your reign since 2000; do you know what you have done with your privatisation and how many people in the Kingdom and all the cities of Serbia are out of work? You're proud to pay your taxes honorably, and where are we to pay that tax honorably and to what do we pay that tax?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2814	What part of the Rules of Procedure do you report to?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2815	Article 226, I have the right to ask a man everything I care about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2816	Who are you asking?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2817	Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2818	Do you want Mr. Vlahovic to answer you in writing or...?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2819	Please, Mr. Albianic, by wanting to deconcentrate me, you can't defocus me. I've loved this man a long time ago, and I want to meet him in this congregation... Yes, I like you very much, because you have a very thick cheek, I don't really know what you're made of when you can go public and say something like this to Serbian citizens, and to our MPs. And you're still saying that it's not your first job to be a member of the Parliament. For your information, this is not my first job, and I will give you my entire parliamentary salary, which is probably a daily allowance for you, if you tell me the name of this fairy tale you told the Serbian people and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2820	We will forward your question to Mr. Vlahovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 1 and Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Article 104 was injured by the exposure of the MP, the ex-minister and the executive director of the company that assessed the value of the capital, so when he came to take it all well he finished, Deloitte, that's his name. On the basis of Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, first of all to you, Mr. Batic, let me say, you'll probably call back later, you haven't been to the Parliament's previous assembly, and now you're kind of past it. Vojislav Kostunica, four times in three and a half years, entered the Assembly, once, though, when the draft budget was explained, twice over the resolution, the man talks with the owl, has a lot of work to do. Kosovo and Metohija want to take his mentors, and yours too, but he's gone, he's not interested, he's not interested in the budget. Mr. Vlahovic, someone may have missed it, but I didn't. You're sending very dangerous messages from a pay phone: a red-and-black coalition. First, we are the free people, we Serbs and all citizens of Serbia who respect the Constitution and the laws of this country and are loyal citizens. We have fought against black shirts, Ustashas, SS, Nazis all our lives, whether these young people during World War II were in Partisans or Chetniks or all of them were called Chetniks in the last country war. If someone spreads hate speech and if someone has a bad influence on the free Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, it is you, Mr. Vlahovic. It wouldn't be your first and only mistake. Every time you go out and so condescendingly, in my own, I would say, more Sheret style, with those few sentences that you are trying to downplay first of all fellow MPs who are not economists by profession, and even if you hit on someone who is for you a financial brain, such as Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, the arguments that do not stand, immediately come out those people that you have wrapped in black. If you're talking about some black guy, at least you, Bozidar Djelic, and that union minister, turned us black. God himself saved you, I don't know which was in August 2002, when the flag workers were chasing you with those poles, and you went to eat roast giraffes, so you ate until four o'clock in the morning. (President: Please pay attention to your dictionary, you are still the Vice President of the Assembly. () Roasted giraffes are bad dictionaries? I didn't eat those baked giraffes in Kragujevac, but Vlahovic did when he fired 15,000 people overnight. Mr. Albianic, you'd better calm down, so the letters don't start coming in for you, too. This just arrived at the college of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the courier brought it to me at the moment when you were fighting over such a fate of the Serbian peasant and the workers you left out of work, a letter from the City Board of Metals Kragujevac, at 16.54 p.m. asking them to return to work, you fired people, they don't have the bread to eat. You fired them. What does it mean to you who signed it, when it just means where you're going to steal what you're going to steal, Mr. Vlahovic? You care a lot about the fate of Serbian workers? We have to deal with this issue tomorrow at the Kravujevac City Assembly, not you, Mr. Minister, former director of the Privatisation Agency. You've left these people out of work. You know what they're looking for? They're asking you to tell them what's going to happen to the Education and Employment Office. Who's the promoter of that? You personally. Not even Djelic, not even that unfortunate union guy, made three villas with five floors, I don't know where... (President: Miss Jovanovic, can you stop? Of course I can't stop when the thief was so big, I can tell Vlahovic where he took everything by 4:00 in the morning. These people are looking for... And, best of all, I guarantee you, we're a free people, you're in Kragujevac, you're absolutely sure of that, come in nice tomorrow as a visiting MP, we'll arrange it with the congregation service, so nice to explain it to the citizens of Kragujevac and these poor people who send these memos, and they'll spend six years lurking and they don't know where they're going because of your rule and the whole Democratic Party, how you're going to hire them, because you said that you're going to make them go back to work. You've been lying to them for six years, and you're getting richer and richer. And yet you laugh at the messengers in the face of the people, saying that they know nothing. If I were you, Mr. Vlahovic, at this point in office, resigning as a MP, you do not belong in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2822	According to Business, MP Dragan Todorovic, then MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that memory is not the best feature of some people who came to power in 2000 after October 5th. I am not saying that Alexander Vlahovic was the first job, but I remember a large number of MPs from DOS, ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, the president of the municipalities, whose first job was the Assembly, or the seat of the president of the municipality, the minister, the deputy prime minister of the government. It is inappropriate to say this to representatives of the SRS, who have been in this assembly since 1992. The second thing, at the end of your presentation, you said it was no problem to prove your property. I really don't think any man should be accused without arguments. Just because the official state authorities don't react at all doesn't mean that someone isn't guilty or guilty. We know, unfortunately, the methods of dealing with political opponents, which have been used before, and also during DOS rule. We also remember many of the machinations done by DOS representatives, who were caught in crime by circumstances. I'll just remind you of some less important ones. They weren't in such prominent places. One was Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's cabinet chief, Nemanja Kolesar, I hope you remember him. There were some problems about the money he paid for an apartment, so he said it was given to him by his mom and dad who worked in Moscow. Unfortunately, then it turns out that he lied; that his dad spent his whole life separating every dinar, he couldn't get that much money away from him, and then it turns out that the money came from some exotic islands, so we remember at G17 plus how these transactions from various islands were coming, how the money was laundered, etc. Our people are not so blind that they do not see how many have increased their capital since 2001. I'm not telling you anything. I believe you've earned every penny fair and square. For you to know, you were a partner at Deloitte & Touche, but you know how much these salaries could have been in the time of 2000, there's nothing weird about it. It could've been earned in other ways. But there's only one problem, I'm distracting you, all of you from DOS. Don't think that by passing time, it's legalized and you'll be able to hide... (President: Time.) Mr. Albianic, I apologize, just to finish. There's a very simple way to determine, and it's by law that you passed, and it's very simple, it's just a declaration of income tax that you achieved during the previous year. I believe, Mr. Vlahovic, that you will have no problem proving that by 2000, 2001, you have achieved these millions of values in the euro by doing your job honestly, and not just you, but all those who have come to great value in houses, apartments, etc. Just don't forget one thing, don't think the people are stupid, remember how much we warned about Stanko Subotic Canet, it's not by any chance, about the man that it was apparent that he had acquired his capital by smuggling tobacco, but he couldn't work alone. You remember 2001 and the use of Cannet's planes by Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, so when we pressured him, it turned out that Zoran Djindjic was using to go to Dubai Canet's plane, to Montenegro, Europe, because it was cheaper than the state plane, or the Federal Government's plane of Serbia-Montenegro. Now it turns out that Stanko Subotić Cane was licensed at the time of Zoran Zivkovic's rule and at the time when you, I'm not saying that you gave the license, I'm not saying that you... (Alexander Vlahovic, from the site: Not true. ) Zoran Zivkovic was on TV answering that, I'm just passing on what I heard from him. Chuck says he asked if everything was legal with Canet Subotic's business and they told him it was. So there are a number of things you're going to have to prove. I'm just talking about one thing. For example, travel business until July 1st, 2001. The D.O.S. situation has forgotten to execute some... (President: Mr. Todorovic, you are now on a very third topic. Because of the public, I'm done, I'm sorry. DOS forgot, say, to change the president of the road council. That's where I was. Be careful, by June 2001, Chume had paved over 100km of highways and roads in Serbia. No job could have been done without the decision of that council in the Roads Directorate. Not until today, not a single ministry... It's not true... (Alexander Vlahovic, from the post: By June he was not paved. Yes, Chume got the job right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2824	Mr. Todorovic, time has passed long ago and there is no point in extending this discussion. Dear People's MPs, I really ask you to bring an end to this controversy and not use the Rules of Procedure anymore, but to report on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2825	Dear gentlemen, I'm advocating a violation of Article 104(1). My question is, were we present here living in the same land? Probably not. If people forget, the numbers stay, the numbers are remembered. Gentlemen, in 2000, the gross social product was below 30% compared to 1989. We had kryptodepression in that decade, as in the rate of population growth when wars occur. Understand that, gentlemen, when you speak, what you have done to Serbia. Which one of us? Who brought the gross social product to 25% in 1989? This gross social product is 64% today compared to 1989, gentlemen. We are at below two-thirds compared to 1989, i.e. 18 years ago, and Croatia is 105, Slovenia 120 etc. Gentlemen, individual cases are different. Whoever got rich wrong should answer, but the numbers, the macroeconomic figures and the categories say what was really going on. Neither Vlahovic nor Mrs Tabakovic nor anyone can make them different. Secondly, in privatisation one dollar is small, gentlemen, only if there is an offer of two dollars. So, I repeat, one dollar is small if someone offered two dollars. The privatisation sells the balance. What cost one dollar was likely a loss of 30m euros. It's a balance sale. One dollar buyer must repay losses, i.e. commitments of 30m euros or 100m euros. All this Mrs. Tabakovic knows very well, because she's been doing this job. So, auctions and tenders sell balances, no sale of assets, and bankruptcy sells net assets, we need to know that. And the third question - well, if social property is to remain, if it is not to be privatised, so what have we privatised it, why is it imperative for both the SRS and the SPS, it is imperative for all to disappear, to privatise social property? And thirdly, the category of companies that have been restructured, unfortunately, I'll say that when I apply for a budget discussion, we've given these companies through debt layoffs and eight billion subsidies so far. Had it been luck, it would have been better if those companies, such as the flag, IMT, IMR, the first five-year-old, the Gosa, EI Nis, had been privatised long ago and had put eight billion euros in debt and subsidies. That's why, if we're talking -- what will the workers say, well, the workers should be ugly about why privatisation hasn't been done so far. I ask you, indeed, that in our discussions, we respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that we respect the numbers. You can think of whoever you want, but those general macro digits must be an indicator and a judge to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2826	National MP Slavisa Topalovic, then MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2827	Mr. Chairman, under Article 226, I expect an answer from your first man of your sleeping government, Mr. Kostunica, why he does nothing. Mr. Vlahovicu, as our people say, the truth hurts the most. For your information, I have ten years of employment. I'm not saying this because of you, because I'm just saying this for the citizens of Serbia, because the citizens of Serbia don't know about your marifetteluks and malfeasances, and you know what you've done. These ten years of working hours are honorable and honest and I have an honorable and honest face, and your cheek is thicker even than that military NATO boot. (President: Mr Topalovic, please get serious. Indeed, the terms you use are not appropriate. If you carry on like this, I'm not able to let you do it. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I repeat, where did you get the money, Mr. Vlahovic? Did this enable you, the then Minister of Business and Privatisation, Mr Cvetkovic, who was now out, who was then the Director of the Privatisation Agency, and in return was appointed Minister of Finance in the Government of Vojislav Kostunica? At the same time, I was asked by small shareholders "New Home", 1,900 of them, and 318 employees to point out that Mr. Vlahovic issued "New Home" facilities to the company "Idea", whose owner is Croatian tycoon Todorovic and now together drive workers from the company without respecting any terms of the contract. Thank you, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2828	Once again, I appeal to all the MPs of the people to address each other with respect, not to give a flat rate, to use appropriate terms for this home. National MP Zoran Krasic, then MP Milan Vukovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2829	I can, like most of my predecessors, invite myself to Article 100 and Article 104 and thus meet the formal requirement to get to this pay phone, but I just came to draw attention to the fact that there's a right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure here. That was the moment when we had the opportunity to attend the duel between the former vice president and his minister. If they really have some uncleared accounts from the period 2001-2003 or 2004, then it is better to settle it in another way, rather than here that the former minister submits a report, that justice to the former Deputy Prime Minister, and one and the other have gone through the will of the people. The second remark, Mr. Albianic, I know that you can't influence it, but it's not good when someone comes in here and advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then brings out an analysis that in yotu matches the analysis of Bozidar Djelic about which locusts ate two-thirds of the social product. They ate that social product just the ones that brought you into power, so those who introduced the sanctions, who bombed, who made the blockades, who designed this kind of privatisation, who designed this way of borrowing the Republic of Serbia, what we're going to talk about when we get to Article 4. Budget law. Don't pretend you don't know who ate two-thirds of the social product. Djelic also showed from this pay phone a large dose of knowledge of the economy and wonders about two-thirds of the social product, well, you saw for yourself, 11m euros appeared. Just to remind you, when he came in, he had nowhere to sleep, he was at his aunt's. Here it is now, 11m euros in some of my founding capital in some place, I don't get into those details, but I can't say I don't read the papers, even if I have to be informed that something's going on in the headlines. That's what you discuss within your bloc, I doubt Boris Tadic and doesn't know that he had so much money, that he was surprised when he heard what it was about. He was probably surprised by others, but I would just like to remind those who forgot: remember, Pitic came to us, Djelic, Vlahović, Milosavljevic came, and there to stop, not to go any further. They're modern tycoons today, and they had some work experience. (President: Mr. Krassic, don't make such casual things known to the people's messenger and to the gentleman whom you have stated. Mr. Albianic, you've had to distract many before me. I didn't use any ugly words. I used exactly the words that are understandable, most MPs understand that word. However, I don't accept the word tycoon, but I can see that it's kind of getting a little bit better, they understand these on this left-hand side when the word tycoon is said. See for yourself, we have an American syndrome here. Djelic, he is able to cry, but he has achieved the American dream; nobody and nothing, and suddenly became a billionaire. And then they justify themselves here with great success, 14 years of schooling, etc. So if you apply members 100th and 104th, Mr. Albianic, try to apply them as objectively as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2830	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Vukovic and then MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2831	Dear ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Ministers, Chairman, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - the dignity of the Assembly. As I recall, at the beginning of today's session, we almost unanimously accepted the SRS proposal to extend the discussion, i.e. duplicated against what is possible at a united point, just so we do not report for the Rules of Procedure, regardless of which political organisation we come from and who we belong to. I don't know what this seems to be about right now, but the last month since the government was formed... Probably here all those who are my age and older remember the film "Life Is Beautiful" by Živojin Pavlovic. I feel like I'm in that movie, 'cause we've been bullied here for a month like that train station when the engineer stopped because he's been driving for 48 hours, he can't drive the train any further. Now they're normal and self-absorbed, sitting on this side about, harassed by a few of them who understand everything and know everything they're doing is a discussion. We have a chance today and will certainly not drop it, given that a good draft of the budget law, with amendments to the law, inspirational exposure and exposé of ministers and representatives in front of the DS, and that they are returning hope to this parliament, to this country. I expect the chairman to honor Article 104, that the true return of dignity to the National Assembly and to the MPs is to the fullest extent and that we return to the topic, to stop this kind of discussion, and especially personal insults that are not appropriate to this home or to those who are here in the benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2832	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic and then MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2833	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise violation of the provisions of Articles 226 and 98. Mr. Chairman, I think we should take a break, organise a meeting of the heads of parliament clubs, agree to call on the prime minister, vice president and ministers, because they should sit here today in front of the MPs and citizens of Serbia to explain and defend the draft budget law. My predecessor gave us a lesson that, apparently, MPs of the ruling coalition had been harassed for a month. No, my dear sir, you have been harassing Serbia and its citizens for four or five months. Three months in an effort to form a government, and we see from the draft budget, from the BIA item that this is the most important institution in Serbia today, 3,300,000 thousand to finance the secret service. It's an anti-government law, it's an anti-law state, it's an anti-democracy. It's nowhere in the modern world. Then you have twice chosen the President of Parliament at some deaf time of the night, by the will of your ruling majority. Then you proposed a set of laws with a proposal that even your MPs were not willing to do. Finally, we came to this set of laws handed down to individual MPs Friday night without a chance to seriously study the text of one of the most serious, if you want the most serious act to be adopted by the National Assembly. It's inconclusive, it's bullying, it's irresponsible. But you don't mind that you're in such a coalition, you forgot what you said about the governor, about the Secretary General, about the Secretary of Law, about the purchase of locomotives over the boutiques, about the road mob. We see, the other day, the Prime Minister opens up some 15km of road in the presence of the summit of the Road Mafia and some of your MPs are taking pictures with him. (President: Mr. Batic, time is up.) I'm finishing up, but I'd like to use it, Mr. Chairman, since I've already signed up for Miss Natasha Jovanovic's replica, although I won't be long. (Chairman: Please don't rephrase.) You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, so let's bring this controversy to an end and get on the agenda. Here, I'm done. I really can't answer to Miss Natasha Jovanovic, where Vojislav Kostunica is and who he is talking to right now. She's already said what she thinks she's talking to, but I wouldn't do that. He's supposed to be here today, and that's why I suggested at the beginning that you organise a meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, to invite the prime minister, vice president and ministers, and get a report on why they're not here, whether they're busy talking to the team or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2834	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. I hope this ends with a series of reports on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2835	Members of Rules of Procedure 100 and 104, and I also use the right to respond in the shortest possible way in the replica of Mr Vlahovic. Don't question the limits of my endurance. I will resist and regularly go out to deny you by holding the Constitution and holding the draft budget. What you claim is not contained in the budget is, under Article 92, that all income and expenditure must be shown, and what you're talking about -- neutral surpluses, cash flow from last year, position 13, that's what I commented, that every minister has the right of those 5% to turn wherever he wants and these are neutral surpluses, as shown in the economic classification of 15 all the neutral donations. If we move on, I'm ready. The fellow who called me to help him with my economic knowledge and experience with pleasure will help and explain the case of the sugar king. Sell sugars for three euros each – three. Basic economic logic says the market determines the price of some goods, but only on condition that there is free access to the market and competition. And when you offer all the companies and all of a sudden on the market, when you offer money, it's clear that the price will be low. For me, it is controversial, and this court is investigating how Mr Kostic presented an incomplete part of the property, machinery and equipment he has, for example. Sugar in the vicinity of Vrbasa; which the Agency has accepted, knowingly, an incorrect balance, is not important, will be examined one day; why its director is responsible for the multiple value of equipment, old, rusty giant warehouses and silos that have been used to export money, which our people would say - washing, and that court is doing. I want for the sake of the public and for your sake to say that "the sugar king" is an example of political renting of friendship with the then president of the Vojvodina Assembly. Mr. Kostic appeared in all official places and in all official visits with Mr. Canko. I have no doubt that he paid for his travel tickets, that he paid for the juice he drank, didn't cheat on the logs, but he had an unbearable advantage for the market economy - finding out about the exclusive information, so he embarrassed us in front of the EU about the origin of sugar. He was feared and feared by both courts, the banks raced to give him membership on the board of directors, and thus loans, and large and important businesses were happy to see him as a board member. (President: Time.) ) This principle of renting politics is being used several times today, and I will fight that principle, and individuals, believe me, are not interested at all. And it's an economy, it's not a personal relationship, it's the market economy you called me for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2836	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras. Next, according to the Rules of Procedure, Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2837	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for violation of Rule 104 of this Rules of Procedure, primarily provoked... I can understand that a gentleman on this side, who keeps moaning like he's having a toothache, does not understand that the president of the LDP parliamentary group has reported for the violation of Rule 101, that his exposure was misread by Mr. Vlahovic and therefore reported. I'm completely surprised that a gentleman from the DS... First of all, you, Mr. Albianic, would have to discipline members of that ruling coalition, given that those from the DSS and your G17 Plus party are mostly not there and are not disrupting the atmosphere. You can't deny us the right... (President: Please, MPs are present in the hall. Now, three. (President: It's not three. Don't speak falsely, the messengers are present in the O.R. You cannot deny us the right to appear whenever the Rules of Procedure is injured. Indeed, this is not a matter of obstruction, and we can't wait to discuss the amendments, in the time we're assigned to the parliamentary groups. But then you can't go out and provoke us so we can't do that. Indeed, I think it's extremely correct on our part that we point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2838	National MP Radovan Radovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I assume you're hurt by the name of Nenada Chanka. I don't think it's good to call out MPs who aren't present in the O.R. right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2839	I want to advertise a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 101(2). I want to complain that my friend couldn't have been in any tender by now, as individuals go through here. I don't want to defend someone who's not in the O.R., but I want to remind you that we heard here today, not to mention who, that one of the directors of the Democratic Party, thanks to the sale of two floors of the former CK, bought that whole building. Therefore, we in Vojvodina would very much like to be able to dispose of property located in the territory of Vojvodina and built by the citizens of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina (for example, this unfortunate future highway and this concession), but we are not in a position to do so. To remind you, the Privatisation Agency was on the territory of this republic, or the state of Serbia, selling everything in the way she thought it would work. No one in Vojvodina, nor even the Executive Council of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina could privatise anything in the territory of the Autonomous Region. I would also like to remind you that I am proud of the words that the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina has managed to impose on all the Dukes, which are "where is our money". I am ashamed of words such as "Serbia will not bend" or "if we need to eat roots", because the duchess, like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, must know where their money is. Living in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and not knowing where they will come from and how they will get the Constitution guaranteed 7% is wrong. Living in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and just because of that being a second-class citizen in this country is not right. In 2005, just because he lives in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, each citizen was given an average of 1,000 dinars a year. On the territory, if to say so, the central part of Serbia all citizens received 2,000 dinars. I was happy in 2006 when I was doing an analysis, because citizens of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, unlike in 2005, got... (President: Mr. Radovanovic, really, let's get this over with. It wasn't the subject of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if I understand, now we're going to consider the issue of autonomy. I wasn’t talking about autonomy, I was talking about individuals behind this pay phone saying something. Let me just say that in 2007, only because they live in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, on behalf of the transfer of citizens, or local self-government will they get far less, twice as much than the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2840	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2841	Mr. Chairman, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. You should know when you're having a session, it's not just smiling at your family and neighbors, but you have to pay attention to what's being said here. I understand you're not getting involved in personal insults, but what's said now was supposed to come across your reaction. We have now heard here a gentleman who has said in a very fine voice that the citizens of Vojvodina are citizens of the second order in Serbia. I'd like to hear one piece of evidence. (President: I didn't hear, Mr. Nikolic. I know you haven't heard, and it's not your thing to hear. I heard it, so it hurts me that you didn't react. If you don't know how to run that session, here, Natasha would turn it off, drive it out of the O.R. To insult the citizens of all Serbia, and to say that the citizens of Vojvodina are second-class citizens, and that they listen, say, to the people of Majdanpek, Bor, Prboj, Prepolje, Piroth, and cannot believe that you can say something like that. If there is anything to be said, it is that the citizens of Vojvodina are not citizens of the second order. First, we are all equal, and secondly, Vojvodina's geographical advantages give it a better standard of life for all Vojvodina citizens than other parts of Serbia. Don't laminate over something that needs to be fixed or it's not as bad as you're talking about here right now. Look, you've come to tell me from Vojvodina how the Dukes are, as you say, second-class citizens! You want me to take you to see what second-class citizens look like and what kids who don't have a third meal in the house look like? Not just because of your political ambitions... You are politicians of the second order, but that doesn't mean that the citizens of Vojvodina are second-class citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2842	National MP Ivica Dacic, representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. We're continuing on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know, I might mention someone in the heat of speech, but I want to go back to the topic we're talking about today, which is the draft budget and everyone else following the acts. Since you have brought together a debate on all these agenda points, I assume many Serbian citizens do not know what is currently being discussed. I would really ask that we change the subject we are talking about a little bit, because if the citizens of Serbia watch the transfer of the session of this parliament, they might conclude that the same topic is on the agenda every day, and that's how we swim together and how we get back to each other in the past. There's almost no MP out for this pay phone without starting a story about what happened 10, 15, 20 years ago. When are you going to realize that what happened before 2000 was tried in the 2000 elections? Today we are judged by the modern-day modern-day modern-day contemporaries. Today is the trial for whether people... Okay, Bosko, you're not on trial yet, but okay, wait a minute, you'll get your turn. Anyway... I'm sorry, I've gone a little too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2844	I ask the MPs to respect Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2845	I knew I had a sure back and something had changed. Okay, a little joke. But in any case, we should really go back, if anything else is going to lead to us talking about what's on the agenda. How much longer to compete over who was better or worse in the past? We're not supposed to go back at that time, are we? These children, born in 1986, 1987, were two years old at the time you were talking about today. What are you talking about? Half the youth doesn't remember who the people you're talking about are. So, I really ask the MPs, if they want someone to treat them the same way they do, no problem, I'll wait for you to answer the word and, of course, I'll answer everyone the same thing. It's usually the brave ones who get out of place. It takes a little of that stuff to come out for this pay phone and say something about it. In any case, I really ask the MPs of the Democratic Party not to get me while I speak. I didn't throw either of you away, even though I didn't agree with what you were talking about. Well, didn't you learn that, that's what you fought for, comrades and fellow Democrats, you fought for the right of everyone to say what they think, what you want now? Do you mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2846	Mr. Dacic, I've returned to the chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2847	Mr. Albianic, since you signed it, I'd like to remind you that I've received my word as head of Parliament's club and that I don't want to talk about such peripheral issues as was said here. I want to talk about the subject. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote against this budget because it is hypocritical that the Democratic Party that said by yesterday that the first thing it will do when it comes to power is that an emergency law on the budgetary system should be passed, it suddenly forgot about it. Also, the report on Kosovo forgot about it. You said this previous government financed the state by illegal regulations. What happened to that? Why isn't there a budget system bill on the agenda? Now that suits you. What if you don't adopt the budget now? What's it gonna be? Does the government fall or do you go back to some regulations? At the time we left the government's budget was 52 billion dinars. Today the budget is about 600 billion dinars. The budget's been increased ten times. Has the social product increased ten times in Serbia by seven years? Is Serbia's standard up ten times? The budget's only been increased ten times. The number of employees in the state administration - I remind you that you said that the number of staff in the administration at the time of our government was large - is now four, five, six times higher than when we were in power, although you fired people from the previous administration and hired several times as many more. You couldn't handle the final accounts. Here you enjoyed cutting down the former government of Mirko Marjanovic how, behold, they had these violations, but we had no chance to discuss any final accounts here. I don't think we're going to discuss it now either, because when the government of Zoran Zivkovic fell, it was shot down by Vojislav Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic, and then they were protected. Now that the government of Vojislav Kostunica has been shot down by Democrats Boris Tadic, but having entered the government, I suppose this government will also protect it. See how many agencies and various administrations you've formed, etc. The deficit in the budget is something that can always be justified, but I would like to remind you that the past government had as its argument that it would eventually achieve a surplus, that even some of the funds remained as surplus, which, even to this day, had not been spent and used. You also owe it to fighters and wartime military peoples two times 900 million, one billion and 800 million. You owe 200 million to treat wartime military people with disabilities, NGOs, and you promised them you'd give them. When they come before the government, you promise them everything, just to break up, and then forget about it. These are the people, ladies and gentlemen, who fought for this country and for this people. Not everyone can go to The Hague. At least give something to those you don't send to The Hague so they can live decently, they and the families of fallen fighters. You stole money from the Serbian diaspora. Twelve million marks collected in 1999 and 2000 for rebuilding the country have been frozen in Belgrade Bank, and despite the government's conclusion, you have never paid them back. You expect the diaspora to believe that you have a favored relationship with them? It's about 12 million marks, more than six million euros, that you've frozen in the Belgrade Bank and you won't pay them back. It is not the money collected by the Socialist Party of Serbia, it is our people who gave money abroad to rebuild bridges and everything else in 1999 and 2000. You have the government's conclusion that the money needs to be paid back. You didn't do it until today. Of course, the SPS proposes to eliminate value added tax, meaning VAT for all goods that are directed towards babies, and for books. As for the NIP, you have also greatly resented the former government as it abuses projects for its own promotion. What have you been doing these past few months? You used all the money you had in the NIP to propaganda your own political parties that were in the government of the Republic of Serbia. He's right, Mr. Micunovic, so I'm going to finish soon, because I'm still an experienced politician, I'm going to wait for a more favourable time, I'm just finishing up, I just want to say in front of Dnevnik, I'm going to wait for the third journal, I just want to remind you of Vojvodina. You're talking about where our money is. You say you're ashamed of "Serbia will not bend." What does this government of the Republic of Serbia say now? Is she talking about defending the country? Did she write in the Serbian Constitution that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia? Did I write the Constitution or did they write the potter and, what's your DS called, right, Tomo, Hiber? You've heard of Hiber, you know that he and Lonchar wrote, and we've added one sentence, just for the sake of order. They wrote this constitution that they would defend this country and this people. So what? We all voted for it. Who are you complaining to now? Vojvodina is part of Serbia, and Vojvodina's autonomy is guaranteed by the Constitution, but not separatism and not the state in the country, it will never, ever, remember, be in Serbia, that Vojvodina's state is in the state. It's over. This is how separatism started in Kosovo – Trepca is being built for Belgrade. Of course, I want to say one more thing. There was a debate in the Security Council today about The Hague as well. Here, General Djordjevic is now under arrest. Suddenly he found himself in Budva. They all talked about being in Russia, and he said he spent two or three years in Montenegro a few hundred metres from the house where Svetozar Marovic lives, and accuses Serbia of hiding the alleged Hague indictees. Well, if he hadn't found a good pseudonym, he says – News Karadzic. I'm surprised he didn't find the pseudonym Radovan Karadzic. The whole story is a question story. If he was in Montenegro, how is it possible that Olli Rehn and Carla del Ponte are taking Montenegro as an example of co-operation with The Hague, and Serbia are denying negotiations with the EU, which is why Montenegro gets independence in the referendum? If he came from Serbia, to explain in what way, as Montenegro accuses Serbia of coming from Serbia seven days ago. In any case, there are many issues to be discussed on this particular subject, but this will be the topic of the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since Riza Halimi will speak among the first here, since the funds for the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja co-ordination body have been allocated here, I expect that at the beginning of her presentation, Riza Halimi condemns what his compatriots in Presevo said they are seeking the secession of the three municipalities and joining some new independent state of Kosovo. You, Mr. Halimi, are a citizen of this country, a national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, your obligation, in addition to the rights you have, because you are an Albanian, the right to freedom of expression, to schools, to the authority you have, is that as a citizen of Serbia, you must not tear Serbia apart. Therefore, I call on you to make a statement when you come out, because it would be good for the citizens of Serbia to know that you do not support the separatism of the three municipalities, but that you are for the common life of those three municipalities within the Republic of Serbia. I hope, Mr. Halimi, I'm right to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2848	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for written application, with a number of MPs, submitted all MPs. What has been written so far, 61 MPs. He has his word on Article 93(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Srdjan Shein, and then the Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2849	Dear colleagues and respected citizens, the budget debate is an opportunity to talk about one of the key pillars of the Roma Party programme and the process of Roma integration in Serbia. Unless we create conditions in the budget to seriously implement the Roma integration process in Serbia, then, unfortunately, after Decada Roma, in 2015, we will realize that we are where we were before and that Serbia has entered Europe, however, the Roma are where they were. As Serbian citizens have a positive relationship with the Roma, we expect this budget to express it in the best possible way and indeed create conditions to realise "Decade of Roma" in Serbia in a quality new way. In that sense, we find a few things extremely important. One thing that is important is to create an institutional framework and means, that is, as several of my predecessors have spoken – money, that indeed in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the issue would be implemented in a quality way, because we know the government's strategy that there is no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, but that different ministries are implementing that policy. That means we really have a human-trained government that can realize that whole process. I wouldn't go back to bad experiences when some in some previous governments were saying -- you know, there's political will, but we don't have capacity, we don't have resources, we don't have personnel, and we can't deal with such an important issue. In this regard, we propose that clear resources be allocated for capacity formation in the resolution ministries. Also, to allocate clear funds in this budget for inter-ministral coordination, because it is impossible to make quality Roma integration unless different ministries know what they are doing. I would remind myself that they do not know what they are doing and the fact that I received an answer today to the parliamentary question, where the new management minister says he has no information that 18 000 signatures of the Roma national minority for the new election in the National Council have been submitted, and his colleague Rasim Ljajic has just received these signatures. Therefore, it is necessary to define the work of the Interminist Commission in the government, that there is an exchange of information and that Roma integration in Serbia is very clearly implemented. In that direction, we believe that we need the way the budget is defined, division 21, 24, 26 and 27, where separate funds are where we can say that we can also recognize the process of Roma integration... If we do not train Roma community representatives to make quality use of these funds, then we will remain at the level where we were in the last government, which is that the government has provided 60 million dinars from the health care sector for the Roma integration process, and that we have realised only 60% of these projected funds. Then we say that someone isn't guilty, and they can't be guilty of NGOs, they can't be people in municipalities, we all have to take responsibility together and really create conditions, I don't speak by chance several times today, so a healthy institutional framework and capacities within these institutions. In that direction, the Roma Party and I have proposed one amendment. We'll talk about that amendment tomorrow. I am pleased to consult with the finance minister, who in the consultations said he would accept the amendment because this creates a condition that the Office for Roma Human Affairs is strengthened, so that we can bring the funds closer to all municipalities. I can't have the exclusiveity of the Roma integration process having only great environments. These funds must also reach Bujanovac, to Leskovec, must reach the most insidious, under the allegations of the dorks, the ends of Serbia, and cannot only be spent in exclusive environments to bring representatives of the international community, to bring television to take pictures and to send messages to the citizens of Serbia and the international community as we have succeeded. I believe in the good intentions of the finance minister, I believe in the good intentions of the consultations that are coming to us in the coming weeks, and I hope that on the basis of having a quality welcome in 2008, which means that these government personnel will provide, as in Vojvodina, where we expect a million euros from the European Education Fund this year, to create conditions that even at the republical level Roma from all over Serbia use these funds. Now, unfortunately, it cannot be done, because, I repeat, there is no appropriate institutional framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2850	The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, and then the Messenger of Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2851	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have long led and followed the work of the Assembly in Presevo and, you know, never happened to me to adopt the local budget and to receive the committees on that day a draft budget. I'm trying to read something during this session, but weakly, there's not enough concentration to get us involved more seriously in this debate. First of all, let me say that I agree with what the president of our minority parliamentary group has said and as far as the speed of scheduled this agenda, but also how to treat the position of national councils. Clearly, the number of established national councils is increasing, and the financial position remains the same. Every day, various competences that are sometimes not even legal, which would be expected to be done by these national councils, such as teaching programs, textbooks, and all kinds of things, which is the competence of the ministry. DOS ministers, especially during this three-year period, are being made ignorant and sometimes lack the right information and need to know about the situation on the ground. About two decades, there are problems with the programme, textbooks, schools in Albanian. That's absolutely not settled. The situation is very dramatic. It's high time to be treated more seriously. As far as the Coordination Body is concerned, I was able to see it quickly. In the end, the budget sets out the money and positions that are foreseen for a particular activity. Now what? I see that there are reductions, with an orientation of around 700 million funds, which last year were intended for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, that the transfer for the municipal level is reduced to 290 million dinars. The job description is the same, which we have had since the beginning, when the Coordination Body was formed and when they gave the objects of the work of the Coordination Body, they are mainly repeated again, it is said – it is focused on the programme of socio-economic recovery and economic recovery, with the aim of meeting the basic needs and solving the existential problems of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the area of the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. Now what? We have a situation that according to last year's data Presevo is 16.2% of the republican average of national income per capita. That's six times lower than the average. So this lens has not been achieved in the present period and what was asked for in 2004, which is to create a cross-section, to analyse what was achieved from the lens, which is not. What has not been done, to give priority and to stress the need to deal with it more urgently. After all, it was a crisis resolution programme in this area, which was even supported by the international community. I don't think there's any excuse, there's no explanation for such a drastic reduction in the position of the Coordination Body, because there's no way to see how the government's programme of stabilizing opportunities will be achieved in this area. It's a government program. I think the logic that has been emerging lately, that this government, and this could be heard from individual outgoing ministers, is not going to finance in one area where certain politicians are making separatist statements, unserious, because we are also dealing with citizens who have their own representatives in local self-government, through direct elections, and they have, as you can see, and a legitimate representative in this highest home, whether they like it or not. I am familiar with certain initiatives that were required to reject competition and proposals for a list of minorities during the last elections, due to a series of unresolved or confusing legal solutions. The fact is, despite many problems, Albanians chose their representative. Now that we're looking to solve these problems, of course, we also need proper seriousness. There is no constant conversation here about the integration of Albanians, and that international organisations are more concerned about it, and that the representatives of the government are making the bridegrooms, as if this thing had been solved long ago and as if it were something to be said. I think it's about mutual trust that's in continuity and it needs this reciprocal love to always be proven. There is no one with any god-given regulation, or any will, to point to a person's obligations, and that, on the other hand, does not make any of his state or any obligation to his citizens who exercise loyalty. What else if they pay taxes? What else if they go to the election? At all, I ask the question of who wants to return the work of the committee and that someone confesses here as before the Pope? To come out now and now that I'm here to confess to him, like before in his committees, am I for this or am I for that? Would you like me to show you my ID? I'd show you the MP's ID, but I haven't got it yet. What else do you need? Are we here to work? If he's willing, we'll work, but if someone cares about getting back old times, what they've been through, unfortunately, it can't come back. It would still be our turn to discuss these more sensitive topics more seriously. For this you have partners in Preshevo, both in Bujanovac and in Medvedja. I think this position should be more seriously considered and I can understand that this restriction is a step ahead of the elimination of the Coordinated Body. I'm telling you that's going to devalue the results that have been achieved in the first three years. You know, the authors of these proposals agree with those proposals, and the separatists, who always suspect that this state can work for the benefit of those citizens, who have been against the Coordination Body since the beginning. I see here that there are supporters both within the government and within this Parliament. I'm telling you that you still have someone to discuss with, you have someone to work with, but that requires mutual will.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2852	According to the Business, first Mr Predrag Stošić, then Mr Dusan Bajatović, then Mr Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2853	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, regarding the notification. I haven't heard from Mr. Reese that he fenced himself from the protests that took place in Presevo on June 15th. I'll tell you what kind of demands they made at that protest. So the protest in Presevo was held on June 15th. At the protest, Juslim Ibishi, president of the UCPMB War Veterans Association; then, Ben Kadriu, president of the UCPMB Association Assembly. Apparently due to heat, the main organisers said: Ragmi Mustafa, the president of Presevo and Jonuz Musliu municipality, the vice president of the Bujanovac municipality. However, the main reason is certainly a very small number of citizens present who responded, only 150 of them, and you expected the presence of several thousand people. And those who have come have come under certain pressure. In that protest, you sent two demands. The first requirement is that so-called. The Presevo Valley is being monitored by the NATO Pact forces. Your second request was that the more urgent municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja join Kosovo and Metohija, which, according to you, will be very soon independent. A recent protest marked a large number of Albanian flags. It's about the protest. Also, I didn't get the notice, I asked for the last session about these five views that were brought to SO Bujanovac. I will read the five requirements addressed to the Serbian government and President Boris Tadic. The first requirement is to condemn every type of violence against all citizens of the Bujanovac municipality. The request was backed by Serbian Radical Party committees. Another requirement is to call on the competent authorities to find the perpetrator as soon as possible, and this was supported by the SRS committees. The third requirement is to urge the government of Vojislav Kostunica to implement the 2001 government programme, which seeks a political solution to the conflict in southern Serbia and the integration of Albanians into social life. The Serbian Radical Party's boards did not support this request because there are no conflicts down there. However, it was supported by the coalition's "Complex", meaning DS, DSS and G17 plus committees. Do you admit there's some kind of conflict down there? No, there's no conflict down there, and you couldn't possibly accept it. The fourth requirement is to call on citizens to peace and tolerance. It was also supported by the Serbian Radical Party's committees. The fifth requirement is to require personal responsibility from the state for persons who will eventually be held accountable if it is proved that the state authorities were covering up the perpetrators of the incident or were involved in the incident itself. I'll remind you once more of what kind of incident there was. On June 1st, an explosive device was dropped into the courtyard of the President of Nagip Arifi Municipality. The direct perpetrator, who was caught right after the assembly, is Osmani Veton. Last time I said, his own brother, Ljirim Jakupi, is a terrorist in UNMIK prison. During past conflicts, he killed captured police officers and civilians in Kosovo and Metohija, but at the time of the Cyprus rebellion in southern Serbia, he personally liquidated an Albanian who was a security officer in Bujanovac. So it's the unsub of that incident, not the military and the police, how you wanted to say it at an emergency session. That's why you should come out as a representative of the Albanians here and deny what you were looking for there. In that discussion, during that session, you also asked for the replacement of police commander Dragan Veličkovic, who was said to be obstructing, which is not true. The man did his job with honor and caught the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2854	The word has Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2855	Dear Mr. Chairman, here you are, Mr. Hallimi, I mentioned you, so report for the replica. I am reporting for reasons why Mr. Hallimi misread what the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, said on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. Mr. Hallimi, as you as a member of the national minority seek understanding of all your rights and of all your frustrations, you must understand that most members also have their fears and have their rights. As you should have a good relationship with the state of Serbia as members of national minorities, so the same English lord interpreted it, I think it's a good norm, that even members of national minorities should have certain duties towards the same state. I am very grateful for the fact that you are here as a representative of the Albanian national minority in the Serbian parliament. I would like Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to have the same opportunities as you have in this House, but please don't call on any past, any committees whose member you were and the fact that you also had the president of the former Great Yugoslavia in your time. Don't laugh, because nothing about Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja is funny to us, as nothing that happens to Cosmet is also funny. I ask you sometimes also, as an MP, as a man who bears responsibility for a public word, you have understanding and don't accept everything with frustration. What is wrong with Mr. Ivica Dacic saying that it is not bad for you as a member of the Albanian national community to condemn the phenomena that a colleague from the Serbian Radical Party spoke of, the obvious phenomena of separatism, the obvious attempts of the organisation of terrorism and everything else that will, first of all, break your head in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac, regardless of whether you are Serbs or Albanians. During all that was happening in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, Mr. Hallimi, Serbs, and Croats, both Bosniaks and Albanians died. Even so, he only judges Serbs, but that's another story. Please, if criminals like Agim Ceku and similar to him already rule in Kosovo and Metohija, then consider that in Serbia people of goodwill who want to help you solve this situation with regard to Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja in a good way, Mr. Hallimi. To tell you the truth, gentlemen of Parliament, I risk being completely misread, ever since we got representatives of Albanians, Roma representatives and minority gentlemen, we here talk a lot more about Roma, Albanians, Hungarians and minority rights. I have one question, and I mean that's not the most important thing, I'd like someone to explain to me in this House what the difference between a hungry Serb, Hungarian, Romanian, Russian, whatever you want. There are no millions of people working in this country, and we spit here about all sorts of things, and we have one of the most important acts in front of us, that's the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2856	Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2857	I'm reporting, I wouldn't say for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but in the case of Articles 225 and 226, let's ask some questions and let you know some very important facts. I've already tried to convince this government of a serious situation that has arisen with a debt that has not been paid to war veterans for the war in Kosovo. Given that nothing is being done on this issue, today, a protest by two thousand war veterans against the practice being conducted in these courts is being organised in Prokuplje that some strange and magical ways are being rejected, i.e. they are not in the process, which, according to the Serbian Supreme Court's decision, should have ended. Mr. Minister, this is very interesting for you as finance minister: for only two thousand people who have filed these charges and whose judgments are between 300 and 400,000 dinars are about 600 - 800 million. Mr. Ivica Dacic mentioned the debt you have towards wartime military disableds and families of fallen fighters of 1.8 billion dinars, which occurred between 1999 and 2002. As representatives of this population, we agreed on 1 May 2003, when the government in which the Democratic Party participated was involved, that this debt should be paid in nominal terms without revaluation and without interest, aware of the burden we have borne and how much burden we have taken on our backs compared to this population of 65,000 people. But, gentlemen, you haven't paid off that debt yet, and believe me, it's been four years. I know you're a new government, but I have to tell you that in a previous protest in May 2006, the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica took this debt as its commitment and should have started to pay off since 1 January 2007. Due to all these circumstances regarding temporary financing, we had a complete understanding of why there was no payment at least the first war. But now we have no understanding of such a fact, because on July 1st, I hope you will accept this budget and have the funds to pay off this debt. I've heard information that you disagreed, that you're awaiting the conclusion of a new government to accept this debt. Gentlemen, I ask you to have understanding of our patience and to believe that our patience has ended. I wanted to mention another item you didn't put in the budget. The previous government of Mr Kostunica, and I must mention Mr Velimir Ilic this time, has pledged 4.5m euros from the National Investment Plan for Housing Construction for Wartime Military Disabilities. In the department of labour and social policy, unfortunately, these figures are missing. I don't know who he is or whether the former and current prime minister lied to wartime military people, but I have to warn you of one fact, which is that since 1991, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not built any apartments for wartime wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters. And this was done, 100%, by the Serbian government, only after learning that the Government of Japan singled out six million euros in 2002 to build apartments for wartime wartime wartime peoples and families of fallen fighters. It was probably not out of shame that they should allow the warriors of this country to build apartments in Japan, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia, to have no apartments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2858	Just information. You say you'll support it. And your parliamentary group supported the budget of the Finance Committee. Mr. Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2859	For misinformation. (President: You have caused a replica and you can get a word in the Rules of Procedure. You're right about the Rules of Procedure. ) Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I've been denied the right many times. The only radical in Presevo gets the word when he asks, there's never any problem. Let's work on favourable conditions. As for that part of the protest, I made my point and my opinion and who was interested could have followed it. Just because we as a party have not participated and have come out with the fact that, as far as all the issues and problems of Albanians are concerned, there are legitimate authorities who decide and that we have not agreed to participate in these activities at all, we have made our position publicly available and I am now repeating it again. Of course, there is no more verbal delinquent. That's what people used to go to prison for two, three, five years; now they have the right to express their... They went for a verbal delinquent, and by the age of seven and eight, there was a prison. But it's gone now, and people can make their stand, and that's what the Constitution and the law guarantee. And I've expressed my position more, countless times. As far as the Bujanovec Assembly is concerned, I think it's a more serious matter. I don't see why one MP can be bothered by a request to implement a government program. They originally stated this in 2001, the name, as the government, federal and republican governments said at the time -- a crisis resolution programme in the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedja. Our assessment is that this program has not been achieved. In this regard, the Assembly was asked to continue to implement the government's programme. I think it's perfectly legitimate. It is also legitimate to seek the responsibility of competent state authorities which have not done their part in safeguarding public order and peace and stability in the area. I think the congregations in Preshevo, both in Bujanovac and Medvedji... There's almost a police chief in Medvedja who's not in co-operation with local self-government at all. There is a Serbian president, but there are also Albanian councilmen. In general, they were ignored during the last change of commissioners, the police commander in Medvedja. Why wouldn't a competent person be in Bujanovac if he were there, not only in the case of President Aripi, but before that, twice before that, the president of the local community in Trnovac Beqiri was attacked in the same way two years ago. We don't have the results. If there are no results in preserving public order and peace, responsibility is required. Why does one see separatism if a congregation seeks responsibility from a competent person? I think the Assembly in Bujanovac did the right thing, sent her demands to the highest state authorities, and they expect answers from the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2860	According to Business, Srdjan Sajn, Natasa Jovanovic, Predrag Stosic, and Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2861	Dear fellow Bajatovic, I would like to most sincerely ask you, when you talk about minorities, if you have problems with members of a minority, then say so here, with whom, say the full name of that minority and in an adequate way state your policy that you are leading in parliament. It is inappropriate to talk about the Roma national minority in this way and about representatives of the Roma national minority in parliament. You know very well that the Roma have voted for you for a long time, that the Roma votes in the SPS had their MPs in the parliamentary benches, that there are about 8% of the Roma national minorities in Serbia and that it is realistic that the same amount of time is being realized in the Serbian Parliament about their problems. When I spoke here, I was saying that Serbia must feed all its children, not just Roma children, that the poor cannot be separated from Roma children, Serbian children and other citizens. In the Serbian Parliament, I received on two occasions not only Roma, but also members of other national minorities, and Serbian children. So, please, you can't talk about the Roma as someone... Please, I listened well to what you said; when you spoke of Riza Halimi, in the same context you spoke of the Roma. I'm just asking you to clearly separate this pay phone when you're talking about separatism, to tell me who you mean. I'd just like the Minister of Administration, I'm glad he came, I'd like to repeat what I said before. Dear Minister, I have received an answer to the parliamentary question that your ministry does not know that a legitimate initiative has been launched for the new electoral assembly of the Roma National Council. I would like to inform you from this pay phone that we have handed over 18,000 signatures to Minister Rasim Ljajic, that another 20,000 signatures have come to him at the Ministry, that this is your colleague. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: How many votes did you have in the election? I was talking about the Roma, not the party. The Roma can take the initiative, and the party participates in the elections. Please consider that fact and that, in accordance with the law, a new extraordinary electoral assembly is being convened.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2862	Natasa Jovanovic, Predrag Stosic, and Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Minister of Local Self-Government and State Administration Milan Markovic has just entered, but that is not enough, because I am advertising Article 87. Rules of Procedure. The latest and special news at RTS's public service was that the ambassador of our state to the UN, Pavle Jevremovic, said that soon the remaining wanted by The Hague case will be located and arrested: Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Goran Hadzic and Stojan Zupljanin. That's probably the answer to our day-round question where Vojislav Kostunica is. Probably with Radet Bulatovic, Dragan Jocic and Sutanovac in some forest, or where he's waiting for Carla chocolate. It prevents him from delivering Serbian heroes... I also call on RTS and the smart Tijanic not to spread false news and not disturb the citizens, because, like all Serbian patriots, I am convinced that these Serbian heroes who are being prosecuted by the criminal tribunal are far away and will never be arrested and delivered to Karli del Ponte and to those who have not begun the trial of our president for five years. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, it would be nice for you to now, tonight, how far away has it been since we insist that the prime minister and other ministers appear here, ask for information as to whether for Kostunica today the budget of the Republic of Serbia is a priority or that it is headlessly after those sought by the criminal tribunal in The Hague, to address us here, to ask him questions, first of all, and then as far as the budget is concerned, which is really badly designed. We need to know what's going on in the country. While the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in session, RTS is thus harassing the entire public and spreading the news it is likely to receive from Kostunica and the ministers who arrest those wanted by the Hague villains.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2864	Thank you. Predrag Stošić, according to Business, then Dusan Bajatovic, Jovan Damjanovic, Rajko Baralić, all according to the Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, paragraph 3. Namely, I did not get an explanation from the president of the National Assembly regarding these five positions, which are still on June 8th, again, addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Boris Tadic, which was also notified to the international public. Mr. Riza Halimi, not present, I am pleased that you have condemned the protest in Presevo, and what is controversial about these five views that have been brought to an extraordinary session in Bujanovac, this position 3, where conflicts are being discussed. There is no conflict in Bujanovac. That police commander who's bothering you has caught the perpetrator of the incident. You may not like the name of that perpetrator, since he is a member of the party of Jonuz Musliu, you may not like it. So the police commander did his job and caught the unsub. This is about you in the consultations, the meeting before the session itself wanted to blame the incident on the military and police of the Republic of Serbia. After that, when the unsub was caught, you didn't fence yourself. So, we supported the other views, is a controversial attitude 3 that I will once again read: "The government of Vojislav Kostunica is invited to implement the 2001 government programme of Zoran Djindjic, which seeks a political solution to the conflict in southern Serbia and the integration of Albanians into social life." You're fully integrated. You have received the support of the "Complex" coalition, and I call on both DS and DSS representatives to say what the conflicts in southern Serbia are about, since they supported this stance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2866	Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, sit in your seats. No one gets a word while they're standing, so sit tight. I don't want to embarrass myself in front of the ministers, ask them for their turn, so let's be all right. Only Professor Micunovic can walk if something bothers him and, of course, Borka Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Bayatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2867	I'll really try not to give anyone more reason to report in a situation like Mr. Shane did. Mr. Shine, please warmly (don't take this "hot" wrong to interpret some, please), take a stenogram. I am pleased that I have given you the opportunity to continue to run your campaign for this speaker and to put the problem of the Roma in Serbia, which exists, in the first place in the way you want it. But I commended you, Mr. Shane. I said that if we have a parliamentary group of minorities in the Serbian parliament, including Roma representatives, we talk a lot more about the minority issue, but that question should not be misused either, Mr. Shane, as some do. I just wanted to say that it's nothing ugly that every member of this Parliament and every citizen of this country through one small obligation shows one sort of loyalty to this country where he lives, works, creates, in which he needs peace, warmth, love and everything else. I guess we all have that kind of attitude towards Serbia. So I commended you. The second, more serious remark was by Mr. Obradovic, the chairman, who came out. He was commenting... I'm sorry, Mr. Obradic, I respect you very much, we're friends, but you made an inappropriate comment. So, there's been a little misunderstanding on the Finance Committee, and I just want to repeat the official position of the SPS. So, the SPS will vote against this draft budget, not only because we are the opposition party, but because we have clear political and professional reasons to challenge this budget. I hope you and I made a mistake that didn't... It wouldn't be good to explain, Mr. Radovic, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2868	As chairman of the Committee, MP Radojko Obradovic, vice-president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2869	I speak as a representative of the Finance Committee. I didn't do anything wrong with your attitude, I was just talking about the fact that he was and how he voted. I only ask the secretary of the Assembly and the secretary of the Committee to send Mr. Bajatovic a ballot from the vote on the Finance Committee. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-18-0.u2870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we interrupt work and resume tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by a sufficient number of MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today I have no record of any of the MPs being prevented from attending the session. We continue our work according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the proposals for the law referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE 2007 BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA. THE YEAR (with financial plans of mandatory social security organisations for 2007) and the amendments and additions to the tax code on added value, ACCIZA, PORES PROCEDURE AND THE INSTITUTION, INSTITUTION ON INSTITUTION AND CARIN TARIFI The word was made by MP Alexander Marton, and let the MP Jovan Nesović prepare. I'm sorry, I'll just give you one piece of information. The Finance Committee will hold its session today at 10:15, in the press room, and the Legislative Committee will hold its session at 11 o'clock in the Blue Salon. I shall also inform the Members of Parliament, members of the Committee on Health and Family, that the session is scheduled for 12 hours and I ask all members of these committees to attend the sessions. Here you go, Mr. Marton.
