ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3418	Mr. Dulic, when the session is interrupted, usually remember where you left off, where the debate stopped, so the next day the session continues where it was interrupted. It was interrupted the moment you were obliged to give me your word in the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, you brutally violated article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I had to go out today for public reasons, because that flat-out session and the interruption from last night remained unclear to the audience, it's not clear to people why you interrupted the session. You interrupted the session at the time the SRS deputies called to tell you that you simply must not conduct the session as you did last night. You demonstrated last night one principle that everything the Democratic Party does in this room, when it is in opposition, is the democratic standard and the culmination of democracy. If that's what another political party does, then it's an obstruction of parliament, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then that's what you like to say from that democratic bloc -- primitiveism. If the Democratic Party hadn't entered the National Assembly building for ten months, to be more precise in the National Assembly Hall, it wasn't part of the work, it was their political decision. It would never occur to me to criticize them for that. You made a very inappropriate parallel yesterday, referring precisely to that member of the Rules of Procedure that Predrag Markovic also called on when he tried to criticise the Democratic Party's behaviour in the National Assembly. Just to remind you, Mr. Dulic, during yesterday's debate, I've notified you several times and warned you not to make mistakes made by some previous presidents of the National Assembly. Of course I did it well-meaningly, because I felt you were going towards it and it was just plain clear that you were falling for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to stick to this Rules of Procedure in the future, and since it is impossible to give a reasonable answer to what I have stated as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I expect that in the day of the vote and of this injury, the National Assembly will declare itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3419	Thank you. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3420	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment requires an amendment to the office's competence to join the EU. The need for this change stems from the biggest problem of our economy, which is the external trade deficit. In addition, the draft budget law acknowledges that the external trade deficit has long been the biggest macroeconomic problem of our economy. The proposal states that in 2007, there was, quote, "a high growth in the external trade deficit". Also, according to estimates of the Economic Institute, the external trade deficit will reach around 8.5 billion euros this year. Economist Mladjan Kovacevic predicts that this year's foreign trade deficit will reach a record $9.3 billion. The editor of the "Monitor" Fund for the Development of Economic Science, Dr Pavle Petrovic, notes that in the first three months of this year the growth of the external trade deficit was greater than GDP growth. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the external trade deficit is the result of a unilateral and unrealistic economic policy that pushes exports to the EU, although our businessmen on the market have no chance besides the German and French monopoly. The fact is particularly recognised even in Serbia's national strategy for EU accession of June 2005. For example, on page 59 of that state document, it says that the growth of the external trade deficit, I quote, is "dramatic". It is then noted on page 79 that the highest percentage of the trade deficit is generated in exchange with the EU, over 50%. On page 57, it is recommended to increase the value of exports, quote: "the more efficient use of the free trade agreement with Russia". I stress, with Russia, not the European Union. Therefore, numerous economic data suggest that a review of the office's competence to join the EU in the context of this amendment is necessary. Such a conclusion is also referred to by an unbiased analysis of the experiences of Eastern European countries, new EU members. Unfortunately, such an analysis does not provide the EU Association Office, although it was its duty. On the contrary, according to survey data made for the needs of the 2006 Association Office, 41% of respondents said they were not informed about the EU accession process and 32% that it was only partially informed. So our citizens do not have the right information about the negative effects of joining the European Union, although the Serbian government was obliged to provide it. For example, our citizens were denied the following data from the US state authorities. From 2000 to 2005, the external debt of ten Eastern European countries, the new EU member states, increased by 150m euros. Hungary's external debt reached 80 billion euros in the first half of 2006. The external debt continued to grow, although according to Hungarian Finance Minister Veres, most of the funds since the sale of the airport in Budapest were spent on paying off foreign debt in 2005. The major riots in Budapest also caused Hungary's budget deficit of 7.7 billion euros in 2006. In the first half of 2006, Polish foreign debt reached nearly incredible 110 billion euros. According to data from Polish sources, unemployment in Poland was 12.4% prior to EU membership. In 2006, it reached 18.8%. About two million Poles have moved from Poland from 2004 to 2006. They're doing the worst and the weakest jobs in the West today. Real estate prices in eight Eastern European EU member states rose 100% after 2004. So, if we reject the ideological acuity and phrases of a European pathway, we will see that the European Union is a good project, but only for the countries of Western Europe. In this context, our economic strategy should focus on the Russian market, not on the EU market, just as we propose in the amendment. I remind you, we have a single free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. That contract is our greatest development opportunity. Unfortunately, the contract has not been ratified in Russia's Duma, although 90% of the cases are used in practice, often by foreign companies in our country. The previous government incorrectly announced the ratification of the contract for the first quarter of this year. It is also known that because of the free trade agreement with the Russian Federation, Western companies want to co-operate with our companies. This is confirmed by statements by the director of the Italian Foreign Trade Institute, the Slovenian business representative in Belgrade, and concrete examples of co-operation between Gosa and the German firm "Geng". The amendment should be accepted because in 2006, the trade between Russia and Serbia reached 1.8 billion euros. In the first four months of this year, the trade rate reached 700m euros. So Russia was Serbia's first partner, with a 16.1% share in the trade in goods. Also, we imported 486m euros worth of goods from Russia during the first three months of this year, so more than Germany and Italy combined. In the field of energy, we are directed to the Russian Federation more than the EU. In this area, our co-operation should be the interstate agreement between the SRJ government and the Russian Federation in 1996. It is estimated that only transit taxis from pipelines passing through Serbia would make our country 150m euros annually. Also, the competences of the European office should be changed due to new global circumstances. As the German "Velt" says, Russia is again a major global force. For example, the European Union imported 24% of natural gas from Russia in 2004. In some countries, it looks like this: Italy 28%, Germany 39%, Austria 65%. Russia's state-owned company Gazprom was among the world's top ten companies at market value in 2006. The Gazprom shares reached a 150 billion-euro market value during that period and were worth more than major companies' actions such as Toyota or Volmart. Russia had a budget surplus of 48.7 billion euros in 2006. On the other hand, Germany and France had a budget deficit in the same period. Also, unemployment is decreasing in Russia, and there are 20 million unemployed in the EU. In 1995, Jeljinov Russia achieved a six-billion-euro deficit in trade with the EU, but in 2003, Brussels recorded a 18 billion-euro deficit in trade with Putin's Russia. Russian foreign reserves were six times larger than German in 2006. The Russian Stabilisation Fund reached 75 billion euros in April this year. According to World Bank experts, it will reach 1,700 billion euros by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget law has included the price of oil in inflation, the rate of dinars and the control of public sector prices, but this very forecast points to the need for co-operation with the Russian Federation as the main partner and the justification of this amendment. In 2005, Russia produced nine million barrels of oil daily, exporting seven million barrels. According to OPEC data, Russia produced 46,000 barrels a day in June 2006 more than Saudi Arabia. So Russia was the world's largest oil producer. The International Energy Agency predicts that Russia will produce 10.6m barrels of oil in 2010. On the other hand, in 2004, the European Union imported 11 million barrels of oil daily. Finally, according to estimates carried out at the International Economic Forum by Russian Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Ivanov, Russian GDP per capita will reach around 22,000 euros by 2020. So the Office needs to coordinate its competences with our economic interests and new global circumstances. In fact, he needs to focus his activity on co-operation with the Russian Federation, as we ask in the amendment. This is the only way we can achieve the objectives set out in the draft budget law: macroeconomic stability, dynamic economic growth, employment growth and citizens' standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3421	For the Group of Minorities, MP Rajko Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3422	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. My question is to you, Mr. President. Democracy can be seen and expressed not only in the work of this hall here but also in our rooms, i.e. in conditions that enable us to work properly and efficiently. I don't know if you, Mr. President, know that I'm probably the only MP who doesn't have a study; with Mrs. Dusica Markov, the secretary, I share a working room, which serves as a place to put down coffee, newspapers, etc. In the meantime, I was informed that a solution was found to get me a room. However, some of the congregation’s secretaries said the room was intended for some services. I don't know what services we have, whether or not we have those services that are listening to us, so they're in a more favourable position. I explicitly demand that the appropriate working conditions be provided for me during the day. Otherwise, I'm saying that even though I'm not a scandal man, but it looks like someone's forcing me to defend my work rights that way, I'm going to take my desk out by the elevator. Let it be seen the attitude towards the gypsy MPs in this country, because it is obviously an index of discrimination against the MPs of the national minorities. So, I'm the only MP who doesn't have his own room until today. Excuse me, please, I asked you this morning, your secretary didn't answer. I asked the gentlemen who were secretaries, they didn't answer. This means that the secretaries determine the rights of the MPs. This could and could only be done in totalitarian states, and in democratic states, and I believe that this is a democratic state, the secretary cannot determine the rights of MPs. I'll initiate that these officers be punished. And it is your duty, Mr. President, because I belong to that philosophical current called an orthopedic spirit, you are orthopedic and basic rule of the philosophy of the orthopedic spirit is to stand upright is to be the main and basic thing a man should and must learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3423	Thank you very much. The problem will be solved during the day. We didn't even know about that problem. Let's not go any further, thank you very much. According to the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic reported. The SRS parliamentary group has three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3424	I hope the citizens who followed the TV broadcast had the opportunity to hear what Mr. Dejan Mirovic said about this amendment, as she was in the hall, so the MPs couldn't hear it. But I draw your attention, gentlemen of the Parliament, to take a stenogram of Mr. Dejan Mirovic's presentation. He is the Master of Legal Science who is following these East-West relations, published several books in which he tried to reach some scientific truth through scientific methods, some conclusions. When a line is drawn after these researches, every step towards the EU is a big minus for the Republic of Serbia, for all our potentials and for all our citizens. I would recommend this book by Dejan Mirovic, which is based on an analysis of EU data, data from our official statistics, data from all our institutes dealing with this phenomenon. I will return to this amendment. This office costs 77 million dinars. I would say, for the sake of citizens, to understand what office it is, usually on behalf of the office a blue lady, Tanja Miscevic, is appearing, which speaks of an epic perspective, or, as Solana usually says, should offer Serbia a European future, a European perspective. It's not just that carrot on some stick, it's something far, untouchable. She's the promoter of that so-called. European integration policies. Since there's little in her sentence about economics, she's recognizable by that sentence -- full co-operation with The Hague. So this office is different from the National Council only in numbers and figures to how much will be spent. So it's all the same group. I'll just let you know how many employees there are in that EU Association Office; it was 36, and now it's going to be 52. You see, the Office of Media Cooperation has 33 employees, and now, if these economic classifications are compared to wages, you'll see that, roughly, wages are in the same mass, they're the same separations. The press co-operation office, you see in 411, has a sum of 31.3 million dinars. The EU Association Office... (President: Please, you've run out of time of three minutes, we can continue later.) You've run out of time, 3 minutes and 10 seconds, read it all the way. It's not a problem. You see, there's a big difference in the number of employees. That's proof that you were planning something wrong, probably. I'd like to draw your attention, Mr. Minister, to another very important fact. The EU Association Office will receive 13.5m dinars from abroad. Someone's helping us with the money for that blue lady, the Labus chamber in the government, to tell us a nice story about the EU. That's what Serbian citizens have to pay 77m dinars. A completely unnecessary cost for the Republic of Serbia, a team before the EU, I believe, doesn't even count.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3425	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has rejected this amendment. Anyone else want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Predrag Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in article 5, split the 3rd in chapter 3.9 entitled "The Office of the Co-ordination Body of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja" is amended and reads "The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia". Reason: the current government policy of the Republic of Serbia has not yielded the expected results and improved living conditions and reduced international impatience. One of the reasons for this is that the presidents of the municipality spent money given by the Republic without respecting the evenness of the development of municipalities. The only criterion, when spending these funds, was the number of voters who voted for them. It is better to channel these funds to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, given the current situation in the economy. When it comes to the work of the Coordination Body, as well as their representative Sima Gazikalovic, I point out that the results in southern Serbia are gone. So this Sima Gazikalovic appeared for the first time in public only at this extraordinary session of the Assembly in Bujanovac, where he didn't say a word. So he's not in public at all. At first, when this body was formed, it was said that they would go public all the time and try to solve a particular problem in southern Serbia. So the formation of this body was conditioned by the calming of conflicts triggered by groups of individual Albanians who wanted to show that they were in an unequal position. That certainly wasn't true. The data of this body is not available to the public today, nor do their representatives appear in the media to inform us about their work. It's right to ask if anyone is in control of them and who they're in charge of. With their results in southern Serbia, the SRS proposed this amendment that the funds that have so far invested in this body be transferred to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which we hope will invest in a balanced economic development of all municipalities in southern Serbia, which are currently, according to all indicators, the poorest in Serbia. I note that Serbia's unemployment rate is 27% and Serbia's south is 63%. I remind the ruling majority of their pre-election promises to allocate larger funds for the faster economic development of this part of Serbia, as they remembered so far only at the time of the elections. Here's an opportunity for you to do something in particular by adopting this amendment for the people of southern Serbia. Otherwise, you will again show everyone that for you there is no Serbia under the Gredile ravine.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3427	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Excuse me, please, Mr. Riza Halimi has the word. Under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3428	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is another amendment that the SPS MP has also submitted to this topic. First of all, I'd like to say that there are strange things going on here. We first had the abolition of the minority ministry, which was by the assembly majority, and the amendment of the Radicals tried to prevent it; unfortunately, it was abolished and the ministry no longer exists. We now have an SPS amendment that opposes the reduction of funds, and in this amendment, the Radicals treats it differently, compared to the Coordination Body. Again, it is unusual that instead of the majority of the assembly, or government closer to knowing the opportunities in the area, fate is repeated, the time is repeated when ministers came to Vranj, and they did not know what was going on in Bujanovac and Presevo. The coordination body, regardless of how any of the political entities sees it, has made a turning point and yet they have achieved initial results that cannot be challenged. But the fact is that since 2004, a break has been made and no analysis has been made of what has been realised of this programme and what has been unrealised. Then these ideas come up that, in my opinion, don't have enough sources of information about currents and events in our area. That's why Mr Nikolic is probably from the SPS, and I wouldn't mix it with party positions, but only with man being a businessman from that area, so he knows the opportunities there and the damage is... I would criticise the Co-ordination Body if there were three deputies, and yesterday I also heard from the president of Medvedja and Bujanovac and were not referred to this proposal by the government at all. The head of the Coordination Body himself wasn't familiar enough when he had a conversation with him, and the man was in the government. I think it's inadmissible when it comes to a very important programme, which was drawn up in the Federal and Republic Government, which is disputed here, at a time when there was a crisis, when there were armed conflicts, at that time was the government's priority, that now it doesn't have to be a priority in these peacetime conditions, when it can work better and when results can be more effective. What is the reason why this area is now suddenly ignored and given to this kind of discussion, I repeat again, in which it is clear that there is not enough information? It is not true that the presidents are self-determining funds. They have to get permission from the finance ministry for every project that's being implemented on the ground. And this should have continued, because, once I said, it's an area with six times lower national income per capita than the average state. How can this dramatic situation change at all if there is not one specific approach to this government? I don't see it in this proposal. There's no excuse why it's half cut. Instead of being analyzed, instead of looking for responsibility, but with arguments, this is where it's spoken on a flat-rate basis. In my opinion, to repeat, the greatest shame is that it began to devalue and what was the initial result. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3429	Here you go, the SRS has eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I explained this amendment, I suggested that the formation of this body was created at the time of the 2001 conflict, so those who were staged to draw attention to the international public that Albanians below did not enjoy the same rights as Serbs. That, however, was not true. It is that they had some results, and this was about infrastructure and mostly about places where the majority of Albania's nationality is. Since then, let me be denied by Riza Halimi, let him go out and say what the Coordination Body has done, what it has endured, and what it has done in southern Serbia by the Coordination Body, and when it was the last time they spoke to the public. So there's no need, and I think you agree with that... I am pleased that you have condemned that protest in Presevo where your individual colleagues requested the presence of NATO forces in southern Serbia and that these municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac join Kosovo. I'm very glad you condemned it as a representative of the Albanians from that space. When it comes to this coordination body, it really does not have any function down there and is unjustly spending the funds of Serbian citizens. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3431	On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the government did not accept the amendment. The word is made by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The order disagrees with the government's report, with the Legislative Committee's report, but it was agreed by our service and goes in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3432	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party used their captains' maximum constructively when the budget law was debated. We are also using amendments and allowed time to explain the amendments, not because of the ruling coalition, but because of the citizens of Serbia. So, primarily to hear the voice of the SRS, to be seen by Serbian citizens, and I have reliably checked that the meeting of the National Assembly is increasingly being watched. I have submitted an amendment to section 3, chapter 3.11, and economic classification 110, with a proposal to delete. We have received the Government's position with a proposal to reject this amendment, we have received the opinions of the Legislative Committee, and my aim and aim of the SRS and the entire parliamentary group is to delete this member. So from the very name - The Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, there is nowhere to be seen that the office is taking care of the UN tribunal indictees. Many of you, misusing this pay phone, talk about war criminals. Gentlemen, you need to distinguish between the Institute of Presumption of Innocentity and when you go out for this pay phone, you can only talk about the defendants until they say guilty. The other day, when MPs of the Serbian Radical Party went out for this pay phone and asked for a notice from individual authorities of the Republic of Serbia within the meaning of Article 226, when it came to the kidnapping of General Tolimir, he found the courage to go out only by defending the procedure in words - I must trust this state and that state, probably referring to the Republika Srpska. In the end, he concluded -- what do you want from the SRS, your president volunteered and went to The Hague tribunal, which is not seen by the rest of the defendants on his example? Yes, gentlemen, it is. Professor Vojislav Seselj left voluntarily, but before leaving, he held a national rally in Belgrade and ordered (and all the patriots of this country who feel so able to draw conclusions) – gentlemen, Serbian citizens, Serbs, do not let me be the one to hand any Serbian to The Hague tribunal, so let me be myself. I'm going to fight not for myself, not to defend myself, but to defend Serbian national interests. That's what Mr. Shormaz forgot to say. This message was very important, for several reasons, and I personally hope that soon the same Professor Vojislav Seselj will come and lecture those who think differently in Serbia, this ruling coalition, as they protect and defend national interests. For the Co-operation Office in this point 1st Section 3 of Chapter 5.11 shall be provided for salaries, journals (not to list everything for which it is intended), and for permanent costs, travel costs, contract services, ongoing repairs and maintenance, etc. the amount of 25,522,000 dinars. There is no way to see how much of this figure is provided for families charged with the Hague tribunal. What are we hiding from, what are we ashamed of through the draft budget law? Why, what is the real reason why this should not be shown as aid to persons indicted before The Hague tribunal and their families? Probably after me, the minister will come out for this pay phone and say, "Well, that's regulated by the decision to educate the council for co-operation with The Hague tribunal." That can't satisfy me. It can't satisfy the MPs of the SRS, for the simple reason that you, through the very name of this co-operation office, have already defined yourself towards orientation. You provide full support to the Hague tribunal, more specifically, Carly del Ponte. She can come to Serbia at any moment, go after Serbia, ask you for anything she wants. Kostunicas, uninformed, The Hague tribunal was the last hole in the play. He became his most important, most important and closest friend, Carla del Ponte. Well, we're not even that surprised, I'm just wondering why Carla del Ponte left satisfied with Serbia? What is the Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica, to her, how did he dissatisfy it? How, in what way? How did he come up with a positive opinion on Serbia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal? Who turned out to be the victim? What's behind that? Is it possible it's the paperwork that bears the designation of state secrets? If it weren't for some military archive marked "strictly pom". "or "confidential"? I think Mr. Vukic is from this pay phone when it happened, and he reported in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure asked MPs, as well as the public of Serbia, to inform the ruling coalition, i.e. the authorities in the coalition which documents were submitted to Mrs Carly del Ponte when she last visited Belgrade. As far as I know, we didn't get an answer to that question. To this day, there is no answer. Maybe that file that was handed over to her is about national interests. You know, by Article 97. The constitution, the Republic of Serbia, should protect these national interests. Why are these documents hidden from us and why is Vojislav Kostunica not advertised about it and does not provide us with any information regarding the documents submitted? One more thing regarding the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Regardless of his abusive manner, we who do business and assist in the defense of Prof. Vojislav Seselj are doing everything we do, we address the National Council, we apply neatly through the office to deliver certain documents. The delivery of certain documents should go through a certain procedure: a Council session, a reference to the authority that should give these documents (most of all to the General Staff, an office that exists there at the General Staff), the return of these documents to the National Council, a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a decision or conclusion of the Government, and only then to deliver certain documents to the defence team of Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Responsibly, no documentation has been completely submitted since 28 February 2006. I am convinced that for everything we've been looking for, and the demand primarily refers to what was delivered by Karli del Ponte and certain defense teams, as regards the location related to Professor Vojislav Seselj, this national council certainly retains a copy of the documents. But what's the problem? The problem is that none of us want to receive material without the accompanying act and without the accompanying letter, stating all the documents that were forwarded to Carly del Ponte. This is all about bad practice and mistrust in the National Council. I would also draw attention from this payphone to Rasim Ljajic, who is responsible for the Office for Co-operation with the National Council, not to mention war criminals, to finally understand what the presumption of innocence is, that he does not promise to be arrested soon. Do not, Serbian citizens, allow yourself to kidnap your citizens in the worst possible way, with bags on your head, without conducting extradition procedures and handing over a certain person to The Hague tribunal. Everything you do is past the law; knowing that you do not respect this procedure, then that kidnapped man is located in the premises of Republika Srpska only to get in time and to protect himself from the public, from the citizens of Serbia who think well of this Serbia and who think that all authorities, organisations, especially the ruling coalition must assist their citizens who defend themselves against The Hague tribunal, regardless of the charges. The same Vojislav Kostunica, not acknowledging The Hague tribunal, poses as a legalist, should best know that the court was established in an illegal manner. It was founded by Security Council Resolution 827, but the Security Council as the UN executive body has nowhere to go, according to the UN Charter, the basis for the establishment of any court or court called the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3433	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Time has elapsed for the SRS parliamentary group to follow this amendment. On Article 5, division 3 and division 12 of the amendments were submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milan Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3434	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a Law, Section 3, Chapter 3.9 – Serbia's Co-ordination Body Office for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, Function 110, Executive and Legislative Authorities, Financial and Fiscal Affairs and Foreign Affairs, to replace the amount of 371,622,000 dinars with 750,000 dinars. I would like to remind you, honourable MPs, that the south of Serbia is an extremely undeveloped area. There is no economic indicator by which at least one part can be said... If it is employment, productivity, industrial production growth, gross social product, new investments, etc., it is far behind by almost half of Serbia's average. The South of Serbia has only growth in emigration, I would say, for two basic reasons: the first is the economics, the municipality of Trgovište has a smaller number of people from the Shop living in the Shop than the number of people who moved to Vranje; that I do not say they are spread across Serbia. In Presevo, there is data that there are just over 4% of Serbs left. However, as for Presevo and Bujanovac, in addition to the major economic problems that exist there, the main problems are unresolved international issues. The Republic of Serbia has decided to set up the Co-ordination Body as a detached government in such a dreary area of Serbia. However, if we really want something done, with a amount of 371 million, or funds transferred to a local self-government of 299 million, there's really nothing they can do. We have to agree, if not for this one, I ask the Minister to decide for the next year whether this coordination body, which I believe must exist, primarily on the economic development plan, remains to exist or to end it. If we want to maintain southern Serbia and stop the problems that are escalating, the safest basis that something can be done is economic development. I work in a stock company that has seven thousand employees. One factory in Presevo, I guess the only one that works successfully, employs over 50% of the people of Albanian origin. We don't have any problems in this factory, we don't have regular people getting paid, making good money, working regularly and seeing the perspective of survival, not only Albanians, but also people of Serbian origin. It is important that these funds are allocated in a larger amount because NGOs, such as CHF and UNDP, donate funds if local self-government can, or the Republic of Serbia, grant them the share. Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna stay out of it for that part of the money. And another thing, the Republic of Serbia must exercise control over the Co-ordination Body. Of all the things that are, say, invested in Bujanovac so far, 86% of the funds involved are in local communities where the Albanian population mostly lives, and we have local communities in Bujanovac where the roads to that extent are destroyed, ruined, watered, made their own, that people can't bury the nearest, to drive them to the grave place, but they have to carry them on their hands. I think this division in the budget, regardless of how it's going to be resolved this year, deserves attention. If we want to have a uniform development of the Republic of Serbia, then more must be done for the south of Serbia, and through this division, or, I say, channels, besides the economic development programme, next to the NIP, otherwise we will have major problems, which are already manifesting these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3435	National MP Milisav Petronijevic, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported that with a few more sentences, I would like to explain the essence of this amendment and ask some questions to the Government regarding the issue treated by this amendment. Our colleague Milan Nikolic, an SPS MP, has submitted an amendment whose essence is to secure a higher level of funding for the municipalities of Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo, primarily for economic development, in order to increase the quality of life in the area. Comrade Rizzo, Milan Nikolic is a prominent businessman from the region, one of the most prominent, excellent knowledgeable opportunities in the area and it is undeniable, everyone admits it to him, including you. Dr. Milan Nikolic is also a prominent member of the Socialist Party of Serbia and implements the Socialist Party of Serbia's policy and the result is this amendment. I know it's hard for you to get past that when you have to agree with the Socialist Party of Serbia, but what can I do to you? It is not his own personality, based on what you said, but rather the policy of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which advocates even regional growth, the equal use of funds in this area, new jobs, employment, etc. The essence of the amendment was explained by Mr Milan Nikolic, our friend. I want to ask the government a question about this problem. For this year, the government predicted a budget of 366,381,000. The government said in its explanation: "The burden of the operation of the Coordination Body, in addition to stabilising political and security opportunities, is on the programme of socio-economic recovery and economic recovery, with the aim of meeting in the most immediate way the basic needs and addressing the existential problems of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the area of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities. "Of course, there is above all thought of creating conditions for a better and better quality life of the population (the construction of roads, water supply, electricity supply, construction and reconstruction of schools etc.). But I'm asking if the government has changed its policy. Why would I ask that? Because it halved the funds in relation to the funds provided for in 2006. Or is the situation in southern Serbia so good that there is no need to invest any more funds? Since I don't believe in this second one, I'm going back to the first question. In 2006, the 2006 budget for the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medveđa 713,020,000 was scheduled. Please, I'm dealing with the figures, that's what the budget predicted. As much as it's spent, I don't know either, this assembly doesn't know, neither does the people of Serbia, for all the years since 2001. I'm talking about how planned it was. So 713,000,000 was scheduled in 2006. In a final statement, Mr. Minister announced at the end of the principle debate on the draft budget that 284,000 were spent for 2006. I don't know, I repeat, how much has been spent, you don't know, neither do you, nor Serbia, for all those years or for that year. Mr. Minister, you've made it very clear to the public, but it has to be true. It's not enough to just be liquid. 713,000,000 were scheduled, however, at the time the coordination body service was at the level of the state community, so it went into division 7, function 180, within the finance ministry. Last June, the Republic of Serbia took over all competences and all authorities from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, so it also took over the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. You remember that time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defense, was taken over and I don't want to add any more. Of course, you remember how it was done in a unique way in the world – that Serbia had a foreign minister without the Assembly choosing him, the defence minister, and that the Assembly did not choose him, etc. But last year's budget rebalance of 713,000,000 was allocated, so the service that was formed for the second half of the year received 341,000,000, but remained in division 7, of 180, so within the finance ministry, another 372,395,000. When all that is added up, it's again over 700,000 dinars. So, the essence of Mr Nikolic's amendment is: give at least as much as you predicted for 2006 or let the government answer us whether it has changed its policy in relation to southern Serbia. Of course, it has nothing to do with whether it's going to be a service or it's going to be called something different. It doesn't matter. I fully agree that there must be a precise report on the funds spent, not just for that body, but for all bodies. Here is the policy of planning funds for southern Serbia, above all for economic development. I fully agree that there is a need to pay good attention to the criteria. No one can get more just because it's one nationality. Everyone has to get equal, equal. Riza again, in line with the Socialist Party of Serbia's policy, says no one in this Serbia can lack head hair because it is not a Serb, but no one in this Serbia can lack head hair because it is a Serb. I propose that MPs of the National Assembly support this amendment because this amendment is not only party, this amendment means a great deal to that end, to the economic development of the entire area. We think that's an important question. I'm building up, the minister knows it better, if there are hidden funds in the budget somewhere, and I haven't seen it, and the budget is very recognizable by having a lot of hidden items, of course, the biggest ones hidden, but when the time comes, we'll talk about it, is the National Investment Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3437	National MP Riza Halimi, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3438	I would like the policy of the Socialist Party of Serbia in the coming period to be in the spirit of what MP Petronijevic said, and what was in the past -- it is known. Because just when the programme was adopted in 2001, it was necessary to resolve the consequences of armed conflicts and long-term discrimination in these areas. Come on, gentlemen, explain, the municipalities through which corridor 10 passes, the main highways, and to be six times more undeveloped than the average of the state? If it's not discrimination, then what is it? Give me a new name. I support this amendment solely for the reason that one successful businessman, who knows the opportunities of this area, and which the amendment is very well explained and has purpose in all parts, because no one should question, to devalue what has been done there positively, because of the lack of information, because of the lack of information, not to mention because of some other motives. I wouldn't want the background of this restriction to be any other motive, which in this case would be even more harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3439	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic and then MP Aleksandar Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3440	Mr. Halimi, I have an obligation, on behalf of the SPS, to remind you of some facts. Mr. Halimi, I'm speaking to you. It's June 2007. We haven't been on the republican level since 2000. When you mention the past, please, the Assembly for the sake of Parliament's work, the public works, you mean little and your past: that you were a member of the Communist Union, that you were on the municipal committee, that you were left-wing, that you were part of a referendum which in the 1990s advocated the separation of parts of the territory from Serbia. Remind the small public, that they also know your other side of the personality, that you did not fence yourself from a protest that was fifteen days ago, which was also directed against Serbia. Remind the public of that side of the story, so they can see what it looks like when a democratically defined MP, with democratic values, stands for the development of his end. Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Petronijevic, it seems very convincing to me that they gave me a siat of arguments as to why this end and these three municipalities should receive more funds, and this is not our pledge from today, from yesterday, from the day before yesterday, but years before that. You were, I think, the president of the municipality in three terms, or something like that, you didn't miss anything at the time. On the contrary, you talked and did what you wanted, but you need to, it's already obvious, because this isn't the first time, whenever you mention it, that you remember the SPS, so remember you and tell me, I was a member of the Communist Union committee before that. Then give people a chance to assess the value of your words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3441	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3442	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Halimi, just calm down and you'll get the right. Unlike you, Mr. Halimi, you have all the rights here, like a little bit of water on your palm, we keep you and hold you. You look down if there are no Serbs or get as close as you can to those who want to break off part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and we will always keep you safe. You are precious to us in Parliament and because we are different from you, because we want to show that we respect human rights and freedoms, and how and how national minorities can accomplish all that international public right allows them. So, Mr. Halimi, there weren't any armed conflicts down there, let's get this straight. There was a terrorist rebellion downstairs. So a gang of terrorists gathered to secede part of the territory and sought every possible way to destroy and destroy the system's institutions, to physically destroy Serbian police and military forces. Is that true? It's true. In each place, terrorists, in this case, were mostly members of the Albanian national minority, but these terrorists wanted all the worst in Serbia. The state of Serbia did not respond convincingly enough because you had protection from Western occupiers, as today, Mr. Halimi, in Albanian villages or even in Albanian parts of the village arrives incomparably more aid, both financially and any other, more Albanians, than Serbs. What we're talking about here... I'll tell you, in that part of Serbia, all are at risk, both Serbs and Albanians live poorly, but if you're going to measure who's more vulnerable, Serbs are more vulnerable than Albanians. I have one more thing to tell you, there's 10 in corridor and Razanj, it's a poor municipality; who knows how many poor municipalities are, because Serbia is poor, because it's run by you and DOS, Mr Halimi, and your EU friends who take away Kosovo and Metohija. So that you don't talk much about armed rebellions, about Serbian police, criminal and what kind of criminal, I know these domiciles won't say anything to you, but I have a question for you and it would be good for the Serbian citizens to hear it – do you, Mr. Halimi, fully support the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and do you advocate that Kosovo and Metohija remain a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia forever? That's my question for you. Do you respect the Serbian Constitution? Is the answer yes or no, not here to tell us what Milosevic was doing, what my aunt was doing and what he was doing I don't know who. I didn't mean Mrs. Bork. She's not my aunt. I'd be proud of it, I don't mind, as Mrs. Vukic knows, but no, we're not related by accident. I've never run away from it, as you know. You must answer us here, Mr. Halimi, in order for us to listen to your lectures, to your tirads; we are very pleased to listen to you, but just tell us are you in favour of Kosovo and Metohija being in the integral part of Serbia or are you in favour of Kosovo getting independence? That's a very important question. It is a key issue for our country and a key issue for our relationship with both you and any other politician who wants to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I know what your answer is. You stand for independent Kosovo, Mr. Halimi, and you have repeated it countless times and said it countless times. I ask you – is that how you want Serbia? Like these EU friends, what they tell us -- something can change in Ahtisaari's plan, but the essence must be the same, independence. Are those our friends? Let them be little to you friends, or Albanians in Albania, be few friends to the Croats, be few friends to the Muslims, so let them take their territories, no more to the Serbs, who, please, be friends to them. And don't pretend to be a great friend of Serbia if you are in favour of its disintegration and if you are in favour of leaving Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. It is a key issue, and then we will talk about who is all responsible for the fact that poor people live in Serbia. I will agree with you that we are all responsible together for this, both Serbs and Albanians, and Roma and all others are poor. So that we may not be poor, that we may change the criminal power, from yours to yours, Mr. Halimi, and begin to solve the problems of the Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3443	National MP Riza Halimi, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3444	First, let me say that I am an MP, a representative of the Albanians from the Presevo Valley who gave 17,000 votes that I represent their interests in this House. About Kosovo, gentlemen (including others, Mr Vukic himself had opportunities, and there are many other MPs from that time), he could talk a lot in this style in 1996, when Mr Vukic was present in this House, and before that, 1991, 1992, when temporary measures were produced in order, even in kindergartens. At that time, there could be far more democratic and humane talk about this issue in this House. Now... I'm talking about Preshevo, Bujanovac and Bear. Kosovo's issue is the democratic issue of Kosovo's citizens and what's here... Is it even the subject of conversation here at these moments? I can talk about the Party's definition of democratic action, which brings Albanians together in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, and they have shown their readiness to solve problems within the framework of the state's institutions. So, by doing so, these citizens are absolutely admitting, both by paying taxes and by their everyday behavior, and by the sovereignty and integrity of this country. The most important political parties in January last year gave a political platform in which they also seek to address their problems here. And I have decidently said, in my opinion and the understanding of my party, that I have said in the 1990s in Belgrade, that it is the democratic right of the citizens of Kosovo to solve their problems or their views. I support this democratic will and citizens in Kosovo and any citizen in the whole world, as well as here and anywhere. I think I'm decadent, quite clear that the citizens of Kosovo decide on their future and their fate. I don't think there's anything else to say in that direction. Absolutely, I think the problem that we're talking about here is that we put the coordination body back to normal the way it was set up that year. Serbia's government has created a co-ordination body... (President: Time, Mr. Halimi. ) I think we're talking about Mr Nikolic's amendment to the Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje municipality's co-ordination body. You put the Kosovo issue on the agenda and I'll tell you my position. I'm talking about a point on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3445	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic, and then the People's Messenger Dragan Sormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3446	We, ladies and gentlemen, have now heard Mr. Halimi. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased; however much Mr Halimi avoided and perverted the answer, it is clear that he advocates independent Kosovo. What you were telling us, about 1991, 1992, 1996, to say in the end, you were still 1990s in favour of independent Kosovo. You've been before, Mr. Halimi. What are you lying about here and all of our people and all the MPs like, for God's sake, it's the result of Milosevic's repressive machinery or I don't know what? What are you talking about? It's the result of your desire to rob us of our territory. You're talking about Kosovo like it's not in Serbia. Yeah, it's okay, we're still in Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear. What do you have to do with Bear? Albanian houses in Medvedja can be counted on their fingers. What do you even mention to Bear? What are you even talking about? Two hands can be counted on Albanian houses in Medvedja. What are you talking about here? They only found it so that... Let me say one more thing, what our aspirations are in the next period. Is that your wish? Do you think it is normal and that it is okay to speak here in the highest Serbian home – yes, I love you very much and that is why I advocate to take you Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you, Mr. Halimi. I know that you will also receive support for the part of the MPs, certainly a small part of the MPs, certainly incomparably a small part of the MPs, but for that you will not get support in the majority Serb people. Serbian citizens will never support it as an idea. I know that you will say – what do I care, I have the support of Tirana, the support of Ceku, Thaci and others in Pristina, so I will deal with these problems with them. I know that you are now overjoyed, that your ratings are growing with your friends, those with guns on various barricades, in various terrorist ambushes, killed Serbian children and Serbian police officers, those who stole and kidnapped anything they thought of, there from Konculj to Gjilan, etc. Mr. Halimi, there's only one thing you need to know. What you stand for and say – democratically right and question, I have another question for you, and so I will ask you questions to torture you so that I can show you how unprincipled you are as a member and representative of a political option that advocates the kidnapping of part of Serbia's territory. When I speak to you, I'm not just talking to you, I'm talking to you... Mr. Albianic, I'd like to ask you that this man here, I don't know who he is or what he is, please. Can you be polite? Can I ask you to do that? That really doesn't make sense. (President: Mr. Wolf, but it's time. Mr. Albianic, I try and concentrate, because I know how serious things are, not to say too hard words, not to say some stupid thing, and then I have to put up with a certain person here, who I don't know who he is or what he is or what he's doing here, who's been talking about here, he's turned around, he's leaning down to the third row, and let's not matter what he's going to say here. At least say excuse me, or step outside. (President: Mr. Wolfie, let's move on. Yeah, being rude, that's his problem, not mine, I agree. My problem is just concentration. So, Mr. Halimi, I'm not just talking to you, I'm talking to those who agree with you in Serbia, who, in the same way, want to fool the citizens of Serbia, to say -- it's not important that Kosovo and Metohija are important to us European integration. I've seen some who, after the password, "Kosovo is the heart of Serbia" make a password "The Ibiza is the heart of Serbia". I guess that's great for them; I guess Santorini too. I won't even tell you what he's famous for. You need to know one thing. My next question is whether the people in Republika Srpska have the right to a democratic commitment or a people in Republika Srpska do not allow it? Or the people of the Serbian Krajina, I see that within a year the Serbs will again be the absolute majority, will you allow it to be defined? No, I'm not, but in Vukovar, it's exactly the same number. The majority of Croatian voters is because they bring them from Rijeka and Zagreb to vote, not because they live in Vukovar. I take care of this very precisely, as well as the Serbian rights that are at risk in the territory of Croatia's Avionics. Do you want to allow them this democratic right, you want to advocate and say -- here, Serbs in Republika Srpska have their democratic right to live together with Serbs in their own country. How about that, Mr. Halimi? You will say: He cannot, and you are not interested. There's nothing for the Serbs, and there's nothing for you. You can't do that. And for the Serbs shall be all that applies to all others, and not: we shall take Gracanica, the Mitrovica of Kosovo. You can't take Gracanica or Kosovo Mitrovica, so we'll ask everything and everyone what they think about it, so let's see how you get most of it in Gracanica, Čaglavica, Gorazdevac, Shilova, Ranilugu and in every other place. So you'll see that there's nothing. Don't play with the state, don't destroy the state in every way you can and think it's easy, easy and possible. The state of Serbia will not destroy, no matter what you try to do, however you try to do it. I'm worried that there's nothing to worry about with a representative of the government, which they don't care about your words, but that's what it says about their relationship with the state. Don't worry, there will be those who will know to tell you – stop a minute, my friend, you've run too far, it's not Serbia or your front, or a handful of teeth that anyone who wants a tooth is. We'll keep our Serbia safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3447	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3448	Mr. Halimi, I hope you don't turn around while I'm talking, I'll be sharper than Ace Wolf. Mr. Halimi, it is not a democratic question, as you said, of the peoples of Kosovo and those who live there, the citizens of Kosovo, but of Kosovo and Metohija is a democratic issue of the state of Serbia, the people of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, where the national Albanian minority living in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Not only does the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia tell you, so does the Helsinki Charter, as well as the UN Charter, that's what Resolution 1244 tells you. You have been elected to this House as an MP of the Republic of Serbia and are obliged, as an MP, to respect and defend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of your nationality. Therefore, I ask you to continue to respect this pay phone and avoid this topic or speak as the Constitution of Serbia tells you to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3449	The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3450	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, under Article 225 and Article 226. I really think this will be interesting for all of you, especially Mr. Halimi and those MPs coming from southern Serbia. According to Pristina newspapers, the daily Express announced yesterday that after delaying a solution to Kosovo's status, anger is growing and that tensions and dissatisfactions could result in uncontrollable demonstrations. But it's not a problem, it's clear to us. It says here, Javid Yasari, a member of the KLA war veterans. The paper also said that representatives of the Association of Fighters from Kosovo, Macedonia and Presevo, Mr Halimi, gathered at this meeting in the village of Glodjane and decided that in case Kosovo's independence is not declared, they would put on the uniform again and cause unrest in Kosovo. I guess, since they're from Presevo, they'll probably spread those riots to Presevo as well. Please, Mr. Halimi, that you as a representative of the Albanian people and your party... Again, as party president, you did not fence yourself from a gathering of war veterans of the Presevo Valley. You said it was a smaller group, 150 people. I believe it was so, and I don't think there were any more than 150 people, but these 150 people show a clear message to this people, so please, Mr Halimi, that from this pay phone, or whatever else you want, you clearly tell the Serbian people and MPs in this assembly what you think of such actions and how much such actions contribute to the stability and respect between the Serbian and Albanian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3451	The word is by MP Stojanka Petkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3452	Since the parity between southern Serbia, Mr. Halimi, and Kosovo and Metohija has been promoted all along, I want to inform you, you are dissatisfied and uninformed about the budget that is intended for the territory from which you come. I'd like to ask you a question, what would you say if I told you the fact that, say, Zvečan municipality for 2007, although she submitted six projects for the National Investment Plan, she received a budget of 0.00. The only funds that have been granted since 2006, and will continue in 2007, are 124,000 euros for 24 housing units for a refugee settlement in Mali Zvecan. What else would you say, and I would also ask that question to Mr. Minister, if one children's institution, from which I come, "Lane", numbering 48 workers and 300 children, which on a day-by-day basis, has not been in place since January, and ultimately with the April month of money to pay contributions to personal income, only because the chiefs of social activity and the financial sector are simply living and giving us less money than how much we pass on to them as a request for payment of personal income. That we don't have a dime of material resources for 300 children, and that we only survive out of 2,000 dinars, what is the monthly amount for the entire day's stay that parents pay for feeding children, and that's what we get for eating, which is for material costs, I won't even talk about. So, what I'm saying is that there is one completely different situation in Kosovo and Metohija, much more difficult than your situation and the situation you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3453	The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3454	I responded to Mr Nikolic's amendment because there are several touch points between the amendment and the amendment he filed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party. Although Mr Topalovic suggested changing the name of this division, we wanted to draw attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia that if there is a need to help that end finance something that is social activity, infrastructure, equipment, etc., then it would be best to finance through the fund. You replied that there is a more important regulation on the establishment of a service than the fund law. All right, so be it. Through the financing of the service, you transfer funds probably for legitimate purposes. Mr Nikolic has submitted the amendment, and I think it takes 300 million dinars to increase that division and instead of 300 and something million to be 600 and some million, which corresponds to a programme earlier, which corresponds to one trend that has been going on for years. You rejected the amendment with a reason that it was not properly written, because 300 million are provided in a position that is "holy cow", and that position is in the department of finance and the finance ministry does not allow their economic classifications to be touched by any amendment. Now let's get back to this central thing. There is probably a need for these funds and a much larger amount of resources. Now that it's become a simple fashion here, north, south, east, west, some deobo, I have to draw your attention to just one fact - that the state is one big family. If he's in a four-member family, where the father, mother and two children are, and both children are working, it's abnormal for one who has the smallest incomes, so he can't live off those couples, others help, who have more in the house, then apply that formula to the state. The State cannot be considered in terms of finance segmented, obeška, individually. All of you who insist on this individual view of the funds essentially do not know the definition of the state. You do not know that the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to exercise all human rights on its entire territory. Health care must be provided throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Who is guaranteed – the Republic of Serbia. Now those who take the amendments to their end, to their street, let them think about what will happen tomorrow, when they may be struck by an accident, and their street is no longer so rich. Then they'll cry for some solidarity on the side. Someone should remind them then - how you acted when you had them. National solidarity, if I can use that term, must pervade the Republic of Serbia's budget. You have now invented a minister who will take care of regional development, a minister of wonder from man. Just to remind you that it's the one with the black cap, the sock, that robbed the National Bank of Yugoslavia, got inside, the records exist, there are statements, and criminal charges exist, and the prosecutor must not prosecute him, he must not prosecute Mladjan Dinkic. That's all the facts. Now I would help the finance minister secure that 300 million without disrupting the budget structure. Here, Mr. Cvetkovic, let's get somewhere. I would recommend that you look at, say, all the positions where services are per contract, to see how much money is used here for nothing. Here's the cabinet of the Prime Minister, where the services under the contract are 21 million. I have to commend, because it's one of the few sections where it says what the funds are planned for. These are the funds planned for the Prime Minister's advisor. With the cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers there are also services under a 7m-dollar contract, however, there is no case in which it is intended. Please pay attention now to what follows us during this, perhaps next, and perhaps also to Gekna. The General Secretariat of the Government, subgroup 3.3, is said to be: services under contract, 32 million dinars. They've given an explanation. You know what it says in the explanation - making a new civil code; 32 million dinars will cost to make a new civil code. If it's a codification, I support it. I have to tell you, on the basis of the scientific papers of professors, assistants, just to take one law school in Serbia or take this Institute of Comparative Law, I say within two months six will sit down and write a very good draft of such a law. How much is that gonna cost? Make it 150,000 dinars. Why am I saying this? Because neither last year nor last year I received an answer nor a notice, because I asked how much money was spent on Hiber, Gaša Knezevic and these songwriters. I'd just like to remind you who Gašo Knezevic is. It's the one that says in the answer that he's applied the bill that hasn't been passed yet. So that's what the man in his solution wrote, in an explanation -- based on the draft law that hasn't been passed yet, I've decided. He teaches kids at law school. Let me not tell you about Lilich, etc. That 35 million is completely unnecessary to give. So it already exists, but there's probably some kind of deal, as there are agreements with the list of Economists. Imagine, he appeared as an economic expert in the list "Economist" Misa Brkic. That's the correspondent for "The Voice of America." He understands the economy only when it comes to the Milosevic family, because he has dedicated his whole life to Mark Milosevic. He's Mark Milosevic's best biographer. He writes for the "Economist", he's an economic expert, he's an economic expert! Of course, texts are paid, orders are ordered, public opinion is formed in this way, to support those who work in this way. Where else you can find money about this problem of municipalities in southern Serbia, as it is said, and Presevo Valley does not exist anywhere, but come on. You have a press co-operation office, 27 employees, and services contracted by 23.7 million dinars. The 23.7 million dinars you don't have to pay at all, but just slap your hand on the table and Tijanic has to publish all possible information needed by the government, as the government cares about the public being informed. Here, I'm telling you right now. He's so scared about this that every month a million dinars I share with the press, so pets get 200, then 300, and that vet who runs the morning program spends 100 grand on hair. It's all paid, yes, yes, from a TV subscription. I don't know, he runs the morning program, he was at B92, I don't know what his name is, I guess Srdjan. It's probably funny to you because you don't think it is, but check it out. Here, at the request of the Democratic Party MPs, I am asking for a notice on what I have now been commenting on. Let Tijanic make a statement and let him write if it's true, how much makeup it costs, how much it costs. As part of that explanation, it can provide information on how it is possible for our television to buy programs of competitive production houses of Srdjan Shaper and others. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: He must by law. Good, when it has to. Let's move on. You can remove funds in some of the positions called "Tomson." Yeah, I really want to promote a new name for some positions. For example, the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it's the Thompson position. Why? Those who do and Thompson who sings in Croatia, it's the same and it doesn't make any difference. You can cut down on this special war crimes prosecutor, and that's the Thompson DA's office. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to look for information and an explanation from Mr. Kostunica. We've had a chance these days to hear that a special war crimes prosecutor has concluded an agreement with his colleagues in the immediate environment. It's already an international element. Is this subject to ratification in the National Assembly or not? The other day, I noticed, so television announced, that the police director also concluded a contract with colleagues from the immediate environment. Does this have that international element, too, and it is subject to ratification in the National Assembly or any official in this government can make international contracts and international agreements with whom he thinks some contracts should be made? As you can see, there's a lot of need to give information and explanations. Minister, let's move on, where else you might be able to secure the funds. For example, services under contract for the Human Management Service – that is 33.5 million dinars. I think in these five-six items that I've been commenting on, I've found over 100 million dinars that you can freely include in this position, what Mr. Nikolic has covered with the amendment. It is a 3.9 sub-group - Serbia's Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities. Your blind rejection of these two amendments concerning this subgroup leads us to some conclusions. If you don't want to accept this amendment, it means that you might have written off that territory and you say, "No need to waste money, it's going to be someone else's." Now that we have heard that there is a need to correct something that has been selective in the past, perhaps a significant part of these funds, to which this amendment applies, could also be directed to those villages, villages where Serbs live. You do not accept this amendment and what is the conclusion, what are you leading us to do? Why? You have refused to accept the amendment, or you have given the opinion that you do not accept it just for legal and technical matters, so there is no fundamental reason for rejection, non-acceptance, but legal-technical. How could he dare and take 300 million at the finance ministry and transfer here? There, that's your anger. You have to know, because behind every number there is politics, actions, work, and what you intend, as you intend, whether it can be more efficient, whether it has to be this expensive, whether it can be cheaper, but you keep quiet, you don't want to talk about it. You count, come on, this radical barrage is going to pass, you're going to dust the dots, and it's going to forget everything, then there's going to be "Economist", "Blic", "Pres", you're going to force all your media, and right away they're going to invent some new topic, the MP bit the dog, so there's not talking about the budget, and this discussion is so minimized that it's going to be forgotten as soon as possible. So, if citizens say -- what can we do, what can we do, they are the government and Europe wants them. Now I'm just reminding you of what was, well remembered, you'll see in the follow-up of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3455	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Section 3, 12, 18, 26 and 27, the amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible, and the Government has not accepted this amendment. The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3456	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am sorry that the government has given up reconstructions one part of the way (as regards only a kilometer), which certainly represents nothing for the Republic of Serbia's budget, but would mean a lot to Serbia. Namely, it is a Vratna complex, consisting of a canyon of the Vratna River, and Serbia is recognizable in the world by that canyon of the Vratna River, by a monastery and by a natural reserve with several hundred plant and animal species. The most specific thing for Serbia is the canyon of the River Vratna with three stones to grow. It's about one world phenomenon, because all three stones are overgrown by different origins and ways of becoming. Many scientific expeditions from all over the world are interested, and last year we had a scientific expedition from England that came to study this natural rare phenomenon. Here is what one stone grows; it is, by the way, the largest stone growth in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and one of the largest in the world. We regret that it will not be possible for many scientific expeditions, many mountaineering societies to come, many tourist tours especially come and visit these stones, without the mountainous society taking them even to the third stone that must be walked to for several hours or by the waterbed of the river Vratna or by the ground road that we have traveled. I'm also sorry that the government gave up another event, and it's called "The Wet Days". It is a music festival that has a 42-year tradition, otherwise named after a significant composer, not only the composer, but also the conductor and horror director of the world's renaissance, which is Stevan Stojanović Mokranjac, who in time with his 15 hands and with the First Belgrade Song Society, pre-war, visited Europe and presented Europe with the achievements of chorus Serbian music with ethnic and spiritual components. Today, this is what Darinka Matic-Marović does with her choir "Obilić", with her choir "Collegium of Music", which brings the sacred glory of Stevan Stojanović Mokranjc. I can tell you that Serbia's greatest minds came and were participants in "The Mokranjce's Days", and of them I can mention Mladen Jagusta, Vida Ognjenović, Darinka Matic-Marovic, Zoran Christic, and I apologize to many others I did not mention, so they were also guests on these "Wekranjce days". What is characteristic is the participation of choirs not only of the local, spiritual choir of the Church of the Holy Trinity and of the City choir, but of choirs from all the former republics of Yugoslavia and choirs from Bulgaria, Romania and Russia. Just to remind you once again that the name Stevan Stojanović The Mokranjac in the world of world chorus music means as much as Nikola Tesla in the world of technique. The third part of the amendment would refer to a major problem that health care in Negotina has, not only in Negotina, but health care throughout Serbia, in smaller municipalities as well. In fact, it is a 2002 census where about 43,500 residents are registered in the Municipality of Negotin and based on the latest network plan designed for healthcare, we have received a number of doctors, nurses and other auxiliary medical staff, which unfortunately is not enough to carry out quality work. In fact, it is a 1991 census, a company that spotted some 50,000 inhabitants of the Municipality of Negotin, and now, I repeat, 43,500 is a sign that the population has not been lost, but that it is practically 14,000 residents on temporary and occasional work abroad. What's the problem? The problem is that all of these 14,000 residents, who are also on occasional work abroad (because abroad do not have permanent employment, leave only occasionally and do seasonal jobs), do their health services at the Negotin health center. The objective of this amendment was to practically increase the number of healthcare workers compared to these 14,000 people, because with the latest health network – and this is about this budget and I am sorry that the percentage of the withdrawal from the Serbian budget for the health budget is getting smaller and that the last six years are the smallest – is practically challenging not only the quality but also the extent of health services that health centres can provide to their insurance companies in such small places. In the era of campaigning on the rights of patients that the Ministry of Health is conducting, I find that that is not adequate to what they are actually doing with law, which is a reduction of the network. One serious question arises not only of quality, but also of service, which means for the people whether we will be able to provide all of those health services, to perform all of those operations, to treat all of those diseases that are otherwise intended to be done and to be treated at health centres, and also at the non-China health center. We think she's an unfair hick on healthcare professionals who are being led these days, these years. On the other hand, health workers are being prevented from doing their job exactly in the Republic of Serbia's budget with the means to do their job the way they should, and in the end, they also took an oath to do so. I wonder if there'll be enough capacity, if there'll be enough room to provide an emergency service. God forbid, there could be some kind of accident (we've witnessed accidents, such as railway accidents and the like) and will it be, after all, and by law that one department, such as the operating department at the health center, remains, which has a post-operative intensive care unit, will it be enough for one sister to cover those obligations both in intensive care and in the department? I'm telling you that we're going to get into a situation where you're going to ask a question about whether you should work in a carat or not. I wonder who will provide such services to our insurance companies in our community if we stop working, if we are not allowed to do what needs to be done. Not only is it a reduction in medical personnel, it's a reduction in the number of beds. I can tell you that Negotin Health Center will lose 50 beds under the latest regulation. I've never seen in a budget where there's an increase in the number of beds that will amortize the reduction of the number of beds in the health centres of these small municipalities. Will you be waiting for surgery again, as it was at the time of the sanctions, after a few weeks? Where we send, where we're going to take emergency cases, who's going to provide them with services, that remains a big question. What is further is not good, and what is also seen from the budget, is the centralisation of health care, the centralisation of health services. Please, the budget makes it clear that huge funds are going to be invested in big health homes, and that's the way it should be. These are the reference houses that educate us doctors from smaller places. But we must not forget less places and less homes of health and hospitals. It's not just investment in equipment, it's about the fact that investments are practically irrelevant, it's investing, for example, in facades, investing in the window, in the end where the cash flow itself is very suspicious, but it's not investing in equipment. I can tell you that for the Health Center Negotin for ten years the municipality carried out a self-dependencies, because very little equipment was obtained by the Ministry of Health and much more was obtained by means of self-dependencies. You know perfectly what self-indulgence means, that self-indulgence is a socialist fluid, and that today the neoliberal concept of the state does not recognise it and does not see it. I'm telling you that 90% of modern means, modern equipment was obtained right out of this self-delivery. Furthermore, the budget says: 1,000 health workers will be employed, but where? They're also in big houses. We now have one big health paradox that big houses hire, and small houses lose jobs, lose the number of doctors, lose the number of nurses. Also, another major illogicality has been reduced by the scope of specialization. Practically today, there are no new specializations in Serbia, all specializations are planned for large houses. I also agree that big houses have to be reference houses, they have to have a sufficient number of specialists, a sufficient number of staff, but they can't forget small houses. Unfortunately, we run out of many, many profiles of specialists, we run out of nuclear medicine specialists, no diabetics, no nutritionists, etc. Not to list everything the smaller places will be denied. What further, unfortunately, follows this budget, which has invested only 20% of the planned funds in the Health Insurance Fund, is a significant reduction of medicines that will happen in hospital institutions. Hospitals will question a sufficient number of antibiotics in the operating departments, including sufficient amounts of drugs in other medical disciplines. Then a matter of medical material, sanity material will be asked. Are we going to buy the gauze again? Are we going to buy the syringes and needles again like we did at the time of the most severe sanctions? These are serious things that need to be considered when creating a budget. What's still at stake is cytostatics. We know today that we have cytostatics that are on positive and negative lists. What will happen to the cytostatics on the positive lists, given the increased trend in malignancies we experience every day in Serbia? Also, the question of artificial hips and other equipment of that character; we know that people have been waiting for years for an artificial hip, and now, according to this budget, the big question is whether or not they're going to live to get an artificial hip. What the health care is also facing is a system of duty. I can tell you that the duty system is also intended to be paid out of the budget and so created that it can only be achieved in large houses, and that there are not enough personnel in small houses, there are not enough doctors to implement such a system of duty under the current Labour Act and under the applicable Health Protection Act. We'll come to the opportunity, like we used to, to urologist duty instead of ear or eye, etc. After all, I see a neoliberal concept of healthcare that makes me think that profit is above the patient's interest, and that the patient is directed towards private practice. As for private practice, honor to exceptions in large cities in certain scientific medical disciplines, which really cannot be financed from the Republic's budget, but private health is abused in smaller places. In small places, the patient is often exposed to hyperdiagnostics, i.e. to make it clearer to the people, to those diagnostic methods that bring money and income to the private office, which may not even have to be done. It's also a matter of professional control, and I don't remember any professional control in any private office. But the fact is, I didn't see a private health fund item in the budget, a loan item, an item that even a private person made a contract with the Fund. Please, whoever gets the loan will be more merciful and objective to the patient. Whoever doesn't get the credit that I need to get by, his relationship with the patient will be different. After all, I heard on several occasions that healthcare workers' salaries would be increased, but the question is, will such wages be enough to meet the standard of workers? Will it be enough to satisfy an increased amount of work with a reduced number of personnel? And, after all, I would say, is that enough for a doctor of general practice 40,000? Is it enough for a doctor specialist 50,000 - 70,000, if the fact that the studies are five years old, that specialization is another five years? Is it enough for a 20 grand sister to do a job like that? All of this would be more correct if the government wanted to recognise the union of doctors and pharmacists, who today thinks is unrepresentative, and I'm telling you that only with the union of doctors and pharmacists can be negotiated in order to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3457	Are any of the other MPs on this amendment coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mr Mirko Cvetkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3458	Dear People's MPs, very briefly. In addition to the general observations we had the opportunity to hear, even some good ideas, unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, budget-making must follow a very rigorous legal procedure. Practically, you have an economic classification of three digits that represents the final level that observes the budget, all below that refers to the plans of individual budget users. Here, in particular, this amendment that we had little opportunity to hear about, among other things, in a proposal to balance funds, suggests that the funds from the classification, precisely those three-digit ones, take down and a certain level of funds, or increase, and replace it with the collection. To put it simply, you can't from a single set that has a number of terms to make a suggestion to change the sum without pointing out which term should be changed. Therefore, this amendment, despite some of the good ideas that have been given here, simply for technical reasons cannot be accepted. I'd like to take another look at the finding of the government's resignation from funding these good events. That's absolutely not true. So we have a division, but it can't be seen, it's not individual, it's a total sum. You can talk to the Ministry of Culture and define which part of the Ministry of Culture will now give for these purposes. So it's not about giving up. Finally, in several sentences concerning health care and the fear that there will be a lack of antibiotics in hospitals etc. I don't think that's absolutely true. The MP himself probably knows that the distribution of the RZO budget in the previous six months was zero, in the previous year it was also zero, and now it's forecasting three billion and a hundred. If nothing else, it will at least ensure that this deficit that has occurred in the last year and a half gradually begins to fill, not that by giving away far more resources than before, we suddenly cause a further deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3459	Replica, under Rule 101, MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3460	Mr. Minister, I'm glad you heard, or accepted some of my good ideas. But only the resolutions for the sake of the "Wets' Days" festival continue to be financed after a competition from the Ministry of Culture, but these are very small funds, larger funds are allocated to local self-government units. However, since we know what the state of local self-government is, what is the state of economy, private entrepreneurship, etc., other elements, we had to finance this year, practically, this festival as a special item in the budget, precisely because local self-government will not be able to effectively respond to the entire demands of the festival "The Mokranjce Days" so that they remain exactly what they are, a presentation of one significant level. I'm sorry, but we think it's a European level of events, with the participation of choirs from abroad, with the continued participation of choirs from abroad. What I want to tell you next is health care. I am, of course, not an economist, but I remind you that I am a man who comes from practice, from the hospital, and I point out to you what the trend of the last months or years or years is, and I well-intentionedly want to point out that this problem is overcome. So it's not my superior approach to this problem – let's criticise health now because I'm a national MP from the opposition and I want to criticise all living and health care. No, believe it isn't, I'm just warning, not just you, but the government, all competent, that trends in health care are practically criteria... And I don't like what we're doing, one media hack starts on doctors and healthcare professionals. On the other hand, the rights of patients that they can legally have are declared, to accomplish, but in the end, basically, it's the budget, the money that's being invested. Our goodwill exists, but there's not enough money, there's not enough resources, there's not enough objective circumstances that we fully provide all the quality and scope of the health process. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3461	On Article 5, Section 3, 21, 24, 26, 28, 29 and 52 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Alexander Jerkov. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment, with correction, be rejected. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yes, Miss Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I'm a female and that it's okay if someone doesn't want to use terms such as "the People's Parliament", but there's something in Serbian that's called "community," and if you can call me "the People's MP," you have no right to say that I've submitted the amendment. So, I ask you to address me in the future as a female. My amendment was about a few things. The first was to confiscate five million dinars from section 3, Chapter 3.10 – from the economic classification 426 – material, and to put this in the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law. I felt it was necessary to do so because, whether we wanted to admit it or not, co-operation with The Hague tribunal must be one of the priorities of our country, if for no other reason, if you do not feel the need to do so because of other things, then it is necessary for European integration. I fear that part of the money invested in the National Alliance for Co-operation Office with the International Tribunal actually reflects the current government's position and Prime Minister Kostunica's position in general towards co-operation with The Hague tribunal. I will remind only some of his statements when he said that the court in The Hague is a political and not a legal institution, which serves the interests of the United States and which intends to judge everyone except the Americans and that The Hague tribunal is a means of blackmail and pressure to achieve the will of the United States. Afterwards, when asked what he would do about co-operation, he said – I will ignore them, in this I am encouraged by the fact that Europe is becoming less and less insistent on it. The uninformed prime minister probably does not know that Europe is increasingly insisting on this and that it is currently one of the biggest obstacles, perhaps the only one, to Serbia's EU integration. A few years later, the prime minister said – The Hague is not our priority and has never become our priority. What wonders here is actually the position of the Democratic Party that is ready to accept it. I will only say that President Tadic said a few days ago that he is extremely pleased that his views on The Hague tribunal coincide with the views of Prime Minister Kostunica. I only hope that this time, Prime Minister Kostunica approached President Tadic's position, not vice versa, as was the practice in the past few months when everything else is at stake. The second part of my amendment referred to the fact that from the donation to Hilandar, which is 90 million dinars, 50 million of these funds are being shifted to socially endangered citizens, because I find it inappropriate for 35% of the population to live on the border or below the poverty line to allocate 90 million dinars to rebuild a church and religious facility. I believe that citizens should always be in front of buildings and that it must be a policy to be led by this government. On the same principle, the next part of the amendment, where the Ministry of Faith, of the truly issued sum of 610 million dinars, is being rerouted by 100 million of these funds for the restoration of entertainment. Because if someone goes to parties a little bit, they can see what conditions children of all of us, or you, grow up in, given that I don't have children yet. I think they have to be in front of churches, no matter how much we think and how important church objects really are, children have to be more important than them. The last part of my amendment refers again to inappropriately large funds that are being allocated to the diaspora. I believe that some of these funds could be shifted to refugees, because these people are really hard to live in Serbia, I'm afraid they live harder than our fellow citizens who don't live in this country, and they need financial assistance more than those who live in Western European countries. Now just a few words about what I got as an explanation, which is why the amendment is being rejected. In fact, it is the second part of the argument that is incorrect, as it states to me as an explanation: "Amendment is rejected for the reason that the Budgetary System Act, Article 206, found that the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditure on the same amount. This amendment proposes an increase in expenditure by 605 million dinars, with a reduction of other expenditures proposed by 205 million dinars." This is simply not true, I took great care of it, and every time I suggested an increase in some expenditure, I predicted a reduction in the other. I hope that's the obvious disregard the government has been treating our amendments, although the whole budget looks like it was being made by someone who usually knows how to collect well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3463	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am trying very hard to understand and understand all the MPs, all the aspirations of the MPs of the people, believe me, I have remained fragrant after such a pledoa of the previous MP, Miss Jerkov. To repeat, to hear Serbia's citizens: Miss Jerkov and her parliamentary group demand that the funds Serbia is devoting to renovate be transferred to Hilandara, those of the same saints they burned, to other purposes. I propose to Ms. Jerkov that the funds allocated to the Association Office, for the Office of the Prime Minister, for the Office of the President of the State, for those many trips, for the airline that will serve our very presidency, be directed to the area of social protection. Don't touch Serbian saints, we're nothing without it. Without the roots of the Serbian people, the Serbian nation has nothing to look for on this planet. This much evil in a young man like this, believe me, I can't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3465	MP Borko Ilic, for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3466	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll brief you on why we should reject this amendment, which is, to say the least, insane. (President: Please, Mr. Ilic, to take care of the terms, can be more appropriate term to be used. ) I understand the leftist ideas of Miss Jerkov, who, like the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina, came out entirely under the lap of the duchy communists, Bosko Krunic and others who ruled the Vojvodina as their frontline from 1945 to 1988 and kidnapped everything that could have been kidnapped, and your desire to destroy the church as the centuries-old institution that maintained this nation and this country in its most difficult times, but, Miss Jerkov, Hilandar is not exclusively a church issue. The Hilandar, as well as the Holy Mountain, is a world heritage not only of the Serbian people and not of the Orthodox peoples, but of all the Christians in this world. It is one of the most sacred monuments in the history of the Christian Church and Christianity. Therefore, the state is showing this concern not only for the Serbian Orthodox Church, but also for the world's cultural heritage. The restoration of Hilandar means not only the assistance of the Serbian Orthodox Church, but the restoration of Hilandar means helping restore the world's cultural heritage. We as a nation, every single individual and this country can only be proud of Hilandar. We should help him even more, when we're richer, we'll do it. Because of all this, this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3467	Thank you. Replica, MP Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3468	Taking priority and taking care of citizens is not a matter of left-wing or right-wing commitment. I just think that part of the funds that are defined for the restoration of Hilandar... I'm not saying it doesn't matter, but in a situation where 35% of citizens live below the poverty line, we need to sort out our priorities and really be ahead of the building. Not to mention kids who go to parties that are such that it's terrible to get in, they're not even places where children should stay, and we're giving away 610,000,000 to build new church buildings. So it's not at all that I want to give one thing away or that I don't think it's necessary to restore the cultural and historical heritage of this people, or worldly if you want, it's just that it's all that needs to be taken care of and that citizens have to be ahead of the building. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3469	On the occasion of the amendment, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3470	You from the so-called democratic bloc and "response", don't be counting across the back of the left on issues that are not the subject of the budget debate. Make a deal on what your platform is. During the rule of this communism, your grandfathers, your fathers provided a material basis so that you could finish colleges and sit here as MPs, otherwise half of you would be doing some of the most ground floor jobs. Miss Jerkov, you chose very carefully the sources of security for your amendment. You've caused the controversy precisely because you wanted to. You listed the Hilandar here precisely for causing controversy. This congregation has previously identified funds for the restoration of Hilandar. I must tell you, those who set fire to Hilandar had the same position as you. They had the exact same position, they set fire to it that it didn't exist, and you didn't give the money to restore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3471	The only thing I can say is that MPs can be the ones who didn't finish college. There's a lot of them, so we're not going to talk about it. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3472	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. I am convinced, and also the results of the last census testify that the convincing majority of the citizens of this country, whether Orthodox, Roman Catholic, Protestant, Islamic religions, those sincere believers, and those in Serbia are many, according to the census, Hilandar do not see as a building. The Hilandar is built into each of us, built into people who were before us and who will be built into the people who are behind us. Therefore, I agree that the state must take care of the most vulnerable categories of the population, and that is why this budget is both developmental and social, but if we are going to talk about priorities and if you think that certain items in the budget should change in order to redistribute more funds for entertainment and kindergartens then, please, look elsewhere, and do not take from what is not a building but is sacred to many in this country. On the other hand, on the occasion of Mr Baralic's presentation, Mr Baralic, I came from Bosnia's Krajina (I was born in Novi Sad), from the part where people fought for the king and country, and from the communists after the war they got nothing, but they took everything from them, and they got electricity in 1986. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3473	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3474	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the previous DSS MP just said not to touch what's sacred. Given that I have two children, as I suppose the vast majority here, I believe that our children are primarily our sanctity, that we must take care of the future. We respect what was part of our tradition, our history, which is now part of tradition and history. But let's turn around a little bit. I don't see any indignation in this amendment, but I see first and foremost the concern of turning to the future. I think you'll agree with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3475	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3476	Mr. Albianic, this is my address, first of all, to you. Take the assembly session in the way we deserve it. If you'd respected the Rules of Procedure, you'd have had a young colleague from the DSS at the beginning to warn him, to punish him, because he said that a colleague had given "a crazy amendment" It's crazy, even worse. [[Loud voices from the bench: Ludd.]] He got a round of applause from his colleagues. Not to mention the way he went out for this assembly booth, since we're taking care of both the order and the behavior and the dress, and the pride he shows and proves. MPs have the right to state their position, to agree or disagree, but if he has something to do with a young colleague, then let him say the facts without ideology. We heard this story about partisans and Chetniks, I think, as early as autumn 2005. At the time of the communists, it turned out that they were all communists, and now, at the time of this government, after the five-octobaric coup, they're all anti-communists. They were all victims of communists. But when you look at their parents, and even better, the property they own, the gods went very well at the time of totalitarianism that Communism carried out. If you have something a propo argument, say it, but no offense and no ideology. This is the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so state your arguments as to why some amendment is good or bad. Don't interfere with ideologies. When the law that has ideological content comes to the agenda, then come out and tell me what you have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3477	I warned MP Borko Ilic to take care of the words he uses in the congregation hall. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borko Ilic and then MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3478	First, I apologize to my colleague Jerkov if I have offended her with anything when I characterised her amendment with a Serbian epithet, but I know that she, as a literature teacher, will not resent me, in all that wealth of our language sometimes we go too far. As for Mr Obradovic's presentation, I did not comment on your dress and your appearance, so I would ask you to be so collegiate and not to comment on mine. I was talking about communists, not those honorable people who were in the Partisan movement fighting for the freedom of their people, they had no idea about Marks or Engels or Gods or Communism, but they were fighting for a naked life and that they were defending their homeland and their house. Mr. Maras, of course, young people have to be our first priority, and our youngest compatriots, but I just said, if there is already this idea at Miss Jerkov's to help the entertainment and kindergartens, then the funds for it are sought in some other items of the budget, and not that those funds are withdrawn from the funds that are meant to restore one of the most significant cultural and historical ones, whether it's a believer or not, monuments in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3479	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3480	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 104 - Members of the People's Parliament are required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. There must be some order in each system; order and obliges us, here in parliament, to a different attitude towards the Assembly itself. MPs who report for the word, MPs who report for the word, people who participate in the discussions must understand the fact that they speak in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Please don't go out for this phone booth in your shirts, without a tie, the way it doesn't work in any other place in our society. So, across the street, there's a street, and there's everything on the street, here in parliament -- jacket, tie, decent dress, the Administrative Board commits us to something like that, and only after that can we move on to the debate on this agenda point. I think you owe us so much respect and respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3481	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borko Ilic. Please, let's finish the controversy and continue our work on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I am convinced that I have not offended any citizen of Serbia or most of the MPs in this room with my own exposure. And the fact that the gentleman who spoke before me feels offended, I don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3483	Don't treat your fellow MPs like that. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. Serbian Radical Party MPs certainly cannot accept the proposed amendment by counterpart Jerkov and the reasons are very simple. I think when someone here pleads to some values, to a system of values, then they still need to have a little bit more width and know a little more about the whole system of values. In our society, we have fundamental institutions of culture and it certainly includes our Serbian Orthodox Church with its facilities, about Hilandar not to speak. On the other hand, we have the Serbian Academy of Sciences and we have already heard suggestions here that this institution should also be seized. Apparently, we are calling for the need to be human and in this situation, when we have 35% of the poor, we should focus our resources on other directions. There's one problem with this theory, that's where things turn out. It is not said what is causing us to have this poverty and to go to the treatment of these causes. It is the Mondialist principle of free flow of goods, ideas and people, in the service of multinational companies that brings this country to poverty. Plus the bombing of this country and the long-term economic sanctions, plus the privatisation of this country, which you all know well about. Therefore, these are the causes. When we talk about the SPC, just to end it, if we listen to what the SPC says, then we need to know for sure that the greatest sanctity on earth is for the SPC, and it's sacred, human life. So, on the other hand, if we want to keep going in all this, what is the basic, fundamental principle of consecration – love. So you want to destroy an institution that stands for this, and you advocate mondialysis, neocolonalism, and that's the problem. That's why we certainly can't support this, and you could still have a slightly wider diapazon of cultural knowledge. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3485	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP, replicas the presentation of MP Borko Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3486	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the MP from the DSS has left the room, I simply want to be more clear about it because of you. By his appearance, neither this messenger nor anyone else can personally offend me. It is a relationship with the Serbian Parliament. It's simple, to be in line with the amendment and this moment of debate, and there's some order in the church. Let's set him up here in the Assembly. As for the way in which political attitudes are presented and defended, it confirms the general place of our daily life. Very often, the worshipers among us are the most rude. What should be, among other things, the obligation of us as MPs is that, before dividing the left, the right, the radicals, the Democrats, in Serbia, we create a system of values that would separate the decent from the rude, and then those who are rude to question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3487	National MP Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, according to Business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3488	Mr President, I call on Article 225, which says that the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. I admit that I haven't been to the session in the first ten minutes, but I haven't heard that you have informed which MPs have informed you or the Bureau of the Assembly that today's session will not be present. I notice that Mr. Nenad Canak is ingesting from his participation in today's session, and I think he has some other kind of abstinence. The amendment that an MP from his party has made here, on the care of children, I find hypocritical, given that the comrades and friends of other Nenada Chanka, where the people and the national court and this state have ordered them, therefore, are drug dealers convicted of years of imprisonment, and so I consider this amendment hypocritical, for the sake of blasphemy of child care. So, I'm asking for a notice whether Comrade Nenad Canak is abstinering from attending today's session or having some other kind of abstinence, given that drug dealers who have been convicted publicly in TV shows for years and today are not denied. I ask you to give notice to both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3489	At the beginning of the session, the President of the Assembly shall inform of the absence and application. By amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3490	Usually, problems arise when one amendment covers more divisions under Article 5. There are some things here in the amendment that are totally acceptable. For example, the proposed reduction of funds for the government's air transport services, as regards the Serbian Radical Party, is acceptable. This is not clear to me, you have proposed an increase in funds at the National Council's Office for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants, etc. At the very beginning, let me tell you, in the very name not only of the court, but also of this body of yours, which follows that name of the court, there are some presummations that all persons who have been accused are already guilty in the beginning, because here in the name is prejudged their status and they say they are responsible. So it's not a trial against any person suspected, it's a start-up. A court like that shouldn't exist, but anything can happen to us. If this increase in the amount based on services contracted with a million dinars to six million amendment applicants justified the need to make an analysis that would help the Republic of Serbia as a state to conclude what the character of the UN tribunal is, then this would be fully acceptable for us. Why would it be acceptable? Because such an analysis would show who actually judges in The Hague and that these Thompson experts from Thompson's position are helping. Who? Carly del Ponte. Please, do you have full knowledge of who Carla del Ponte is? It's a person who's been established for 15 years in his home state of Switzerland to save organised crime, to destroy the counterintelligence service of Switzerland, to have a rich criminal history, to have with his wife, who was a lawyer (she was a state prosecutor), to set up some trials, to suffer some operatives who fought against those criminal groups of planetary importance who smuggled drugs. If this is an increase in the function of informing the world's public about who Carla del Ponte is and that it's formally legal to go through this office of yours, then it's perfectly acceptable for me. I'll even give you some material for free, so it doesn't cost you anything. If the purpose of this increase is for the public in Serbia to be informed of what is written in the Netherlands... Here, the Dutch newspaper "Mond" published one piece of information on the secretary of the court Hans Holtius, who was still suspected of saving an organized group of crimes against children in 1990. If this is an increase in funds intended to explain to the public who are there who are suing and conducting the proceedings, then the amendment is acceptable to the Serbian Radical Party. I guess someone would prove to us why we need to allocate more funds. Those judges cost money. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we would give this council maximum documentation, help, for free, help to find out and this side of the truth about who judges in The Hague tribunal. Based on these two or three examples, you could see that there are people behind bars at the UN tribunal's responsible posts. It's about the situation now, if we translate it into our own -- you're chasing someone for organized crime, and he's actually judging you. That's the inversion. This would be local, and she in The Hague would be international. Let's see further what is proposed by this amendment. There's a part here that... I do not dispute the right of the applicant of the amendment to find reasons or even to choose taste. However, if we are already talking about this amendment, I must make my point. The reduction of funds for the reconstruction of Hilandar is absolutely unacceptable. You see, even this democratic block couldn't avoid it. And they have an aversion to religious objects, to religion, etc. And some of them are followers of Mirko Djordjevic and these others, but they simply couldn't avoid Hilandar. Why? Because Hilandar is not only a question of Orthodoxism and religion, but of essence, of being a Serbian people, of our tradition, of our existence. In that part, I, say, would not accept this amendment. Just to remind you why I wouldn't accept it yet. For two years, we've been running an action here to get certain tax-based funds to be directed towards the reconstruction of Hilandar. Mr. Arsic has written three amendments; we have even submitted one bill, it seems to me that there has been a tax on financial transactions on salaries, etc., if it has already been abolished, that the law remains only to change its name and that the funds are purposely directed towards Hilandar in order to restore it. So we couldn't accept that part as far as the applicant of this amendment is concerned. Furthermore, we couldn't accept this part of the amendment relating to the diaspora. Why? Do you understand, DOS is required to diaspora, DOS stole the diaspora money. You haven't read the amendments. Mrs. Borka Vukic has submitted one amendment precisely because the Dosmanian government stole money from the Diaspora Fund. We need a diaspora to have developed relationships, intimate relations and in terms of the preservation of language, cultural heritage and all that. Unfortunately, because of this ex-SFRJ premposition, because it was the only way it could have destroyed JNA, which would eventually turn out to be the main goal of all those who have attacked the Serb people for 15 years...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3491	Time, Mr. Krassic. Thank you. Replica, MP Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I haven't been abstinent since the session, and I'm not an addict to have anything to absorb from. However, the amount, let's say, of the anxiety shown by certain of our colleagues is really great and the reason is clear. In my performances today, I have made it clear that Minister Velimir Ilic will have to drag bucagies into prison for the theft he has made, and that is precisely why the topic is now turning away from what we are talking about here. It's clear to me that those who have a bad past, because for career reasons, red books have been laundered, are now trying to wash them with church books. They swore to Tito yesterday, and today they swore to Hilandar. There must always be something above the conversation and beyond the debate. When the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and we duchy MPs say citizens in front of buildings, we think so, because we are an autochthonous party founded by people who were never members of any of them before, and especially not the Communist parties. When we come into a position where people label themselves by the roughest Bolshevik models and methods in the past, then it's quite clear why they're doing it. It's about not talking facts. I would very much like to see the government debate, which will eventually, which will not be avoided, clearly explain where the money this government has stolen and what will happen to this country that manages to survive on the surface despite the government, not the merits of this government. Therefore, let every one who has any matter with me explain one thing to me – those who have been found to have broken the law during DOS are in prison, and those who break the law today are ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3493	The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Marton, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3494	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs and MPs, breach of Rules of Procedure 226. I would only ask President Dulic to give the MPs an answer to how it is possible that New Serbia's MPs literally did not have a single MP sitting in the hall last night at the session and that practically all cards were inserted and they were all on the monitor. We all know they weren't sitting, whoever wanted to see that they were empty the last two rows of benches. That's what we heard from Mrs. Radeta last night. I think MPs have the right to hear how MPs do their job if their cards are in those units, and they don't know where they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3495	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3496	Mr. President, I'm calling for article 225 and I'm looking for some notices. Given what we just heard from another Chanka, it's clear why he's talking like this. We hope and believe, as citizens and MPs, given what the state authorities have been doing in this country in recent days, that everything will be revealed about everyone. As for Mr. Minister Ilic, a few days ago on one of the TVs, on a two-hour show, all his assets were taken. I'd like Comrade Canak, since he said he didn't have any of the property in 1993, to allow the Central TV cameras to record what he has and what villas he has. And it seems to me, Comrade Chanak, that you've forgotten something about drug dealers. I made it clear here that you friends who have been sentenced to years of prison, who have poisoned our children and shared drugs, and here we are talking child care... It seems to me that somehow you forgot to explain it to the citizens. As far as New Serbia's MPs are concerned, we support state authorities in examining for every citizen, every official in this country everything he did five, ten and 15 years ago and what he's doing now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3497	Replica, Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3498	Since I've explained it several times, but since people's Serbian gentlemen are taking it a little slower, so they need to repeat it more times, and that's usually going to dedicated institutions, it's not going to the Assembly, I have to tell you: Nenad Opačić, who you're talking about, is the man who provided our meetings during 1999. When it was discovered that it had something to do with narcotics, it was arrested by DOS authorities and has been in prison ever since. That's what ended this thing. As far as property is concerned, I have absolutely nothing to hide, nor am I interested in it. As you know, on every show, on every television show, every journalist is free to move around my house and on my property. I'm more than I have. That's what I said. Of course, having Mr. Ilic, that's something else entirely. I have nothing to hide, like he's hiding the concession agreement. I wonder if it's true that he won a million euros for every gas station and whether it's true that your party got 20m euros to show off this contract. Show me and disprove me. Show, say - here, Canak lies, here is the concession agreement, it says well that it is a good contract for citizens of Serbia and Serbia as a state. You're an interesting group, so I don't use ugly words. Your actions are sanctioned by criminal law, by those who are arrested by thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3499	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. He's referring to the presentation of a colleague who spoke before Mr. Chank. Before last night's session, Mr. Dulic was supposed to give me his word because I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't matter, I just wanted to address the radicals with one remark, if they've already criticised us, and one part of the MPs who didn't attend last night was criticised. However, New Serbia's MPs were definitely at a session last night. Mr. President Dulic should have given me a word to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the session has been interrupted. It didn't make any sense today to talk about it at all, but I wanted to say that it just needs to be principled to the end. I agree that individual MPs, when they already belong to the ruling coalition, should be present to defend the draft budget law. I agree with that, and Mrs. Radete's objection was in place. However, I just wanted to remind myself that we were also in the last session, and there were at least a hundred and sometimes several amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, patiently sitting in the hall and voting, mostly against them, and the MPs of the SRS were coming out. The second thing, seven days ago when it was voting day, if you remember, there were some 30-40 injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the majority of the violations of the Rules of Procedure were advertised by the MPs of the SRS, which is their legitimate right and, of course, no one contests it. When there was supposed to be a vote of injury to the Rules of Procedure, they all went out. We're all 45 minutes away. There's nothing to argue about right now. I just want to say, let's be principled, if we already want to justify some of why they weren't, then let's be honest and look in our backyard and say, well, that we weren't principled on a couple of occasions either. Second thing, I forgot to apologize to those whose appearance in my shirt is causing discomfort and discomfort. Believe me, me and the largest number of MPs are the biggest and most uncomfortable cause if we know that we are sitting near people whose biography is linked to the most unexplained actions related to Schiller Street, to Central Prison, to a number of very dangerous jobs and, of course, very dangerous people. Indeed, it causes me much more anxiety, much more discomfort, than what comes out, let's say, colleague Borko Ilic and quite polite and chosen words address this home. (President: Time. I thank you. I don't see that kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure, but also what kind of injury I see, of course it was the will of the voters, because some people sit here and simply cause the discomfort of most MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3501	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Free Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3502	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the Assembly, I am reporting in accordance with two members of our Rules of Procedure, Rule 226 and Article 104. First, I must say that Mrs Radeta was absolutely right yesterday, that it is a shame what New Serbia's MPs say that they were in the O.R. last night. For days and weeks, ever since this assembly worked, after three months of harassing us until you agreed on a government, you are not in this congregation. You only come in the morning and put in the cards. When the MPs of the SRS took out their cards last night, I stood up and shut down all the places that you left to shine like you were here. Now I'm gonna tell you, you pulled the cards slowly and let it light up for you. You don't respect this congregation. I don't mind you coming in your shirts, but that's your attitude to the congregation. For what? Because you never answer for a word and you probably think you can come in your slippers. Milorad Belic, from the scene: I answered the word. () You mentioned something that I think is extremely incorrect. The fact that you're trying to criminalize one policy of the previous days through your media, it's going to hit on your head. There will come a time when both your minister and your other associates will also be on the defendant's benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3503	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP is Vladan Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3504	I'm advertising Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume most of you remember that statement from a great politician who read – who did not smoke marijuana in his youth, drive a motorcycle and listen to a deadline, he missed his life. That's Mr. Chank's statement. I want to say something else. I'm surprised that a serious man, as I thought Mr. Chanko could go out for this pay phone and convince Serbian citizens of the stories of the tell-tale. We've heard more than once here attacks on Mr. Velimir Ilic. I'd understand any attack that's justified, but an argumental attack is an assault with evidence, not a yellow press attack, the stories of individuals from the tower, she said. So, Mr. Canak, if everything you've told in the past were true and those stories of yours that you'd put on your feet were true, about half of Serbia would be on trial today. But it's not exactly how you talk. For some of your stories, you must have evidence, and then it would characterize you as a serious man and a serious politician. That's a lot of charlatan. I have to be honest with you and admit that I watch your performances very often, and that humorous dose of yours fits when you're on a TV show, expose it to a few people, and cheer it up. But while you're already talking about this pay phone, which used to be designed for the future, it's now being made for the present, and it's tailored, for God's sake, and the past, which is not so envious of the citizens, I think that you as one serious man should also have a serious discussion and that it's not like you to belong to that group of people who forgives everything in Serbia except for success. If anyone has shown success in this past government, it has been shown by Mr. Velimir Ilic, and that is what you can see. Serbia today has much better roads than it had in the previous period and in the period when you were in this parliament, when you decided. Therefore, it remains that bitterness that you fight and that you belong to that group of people who confess everything, just doesn't acknowledge success.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3505	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Nenada Chanka, but I'm really asking you to come back on the subject after that, to discuss the amendments to the budget. After Mr Chanka, the People's MP, Alexander Vukic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3506	Thank you. I, of course, said, and you probably, when you read, you understand what you're reading. It was very clear that anyone who did not smoke marijuana in his youth, drive a motorcycle, or play a deadline, usually goes into extremism later. So that's what I said. Of course I meant Mr. William Clinton, President of the United States in my previous term. That was also clear from the context of what I said. It has nothing to do with me. As for what I asked Mr. Ilic to reassure us whether there is abuse in the concession contract Horgos - Požega and whether it is true that he has made a million-euro drop of every gas station, and 20m euros for the contract itself, etc., I agree that the processing of such things is not good for the state and therefore I ask that he be free of these doubts and simply tell the citizens of Serbia what is contained in the concession contract, to show it to the authorities in Vojvodina. Because dealing with things that are without arguments is always wrong. That's why I understand very well Mr. Ilic who alluded to Mr. Pitiæ's love for the boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3507	Thank you very much. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic, a replica, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, as we would like to talk about amendments to the draft budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but one remark must be followed by a serious response. So why, sometimes, Serbian Radical Party MPs, although offering 10, 20 or 50 amendments, are not in the hall when voted? Because we've already got the government's opinion and we know your relationship and we know you won't vote for it, and you need 126 votes for the budget. What we would help you in any way; whether we are in an O.R. or not, there is no difference, and we are our democratic task, our opposition task, which we are doing in the interests of the people, to propose better solutions, in any case, to fulfill. As for what Mrs Radet insisted, she insisted that some DSS and DS MPs were not in the O.R., but sometimes you listen and sometimes you don't. As for this debate about who stole a lot, who's a junkie or who I don't know, I'm happy we're not getting involved in this story from the Serbian Radical Party, but I just have one question to ask. Let everything that the representatives of the government say be true. Why don't they show that contract? I don't have any problem with what Nenad Canak's saying, because I like Požega just as much as Novi Sad, how much Subotic or any other place and I love them, I don't see any difference. What's the problem with us seeing what's going on, that's all? He can't tear down Canak or any other contract if it's in accordance with the law, no autonomy, nothing to seek, nothing but what they have, which is the means that they belong to them in accordance with our laws and the Constitution, only to be seen by other citizens. I don't see why it would be any special secret. Now that this whole story's started, I expect the arrest of a new mob and I assume it'll be the copper mob. It's the ones that steal under the copper bridges, and I don't know what, two or five kilos, so now we're gonna deal with the copper mob. I just have one more question and I'm done, Mr. President, thank you for your patience. We came to what Minister Bubalo announced, so I have a question for him, for you, Mr. Cvetkovic, to tell me where this is, in which country in the world. Namely, respected citizens of Serbia, if you didn't know, Minister Bubalo not only announced, but legalised taking a commission from individuals and representatives of the state. I will read to you what has been published in the Official Messenger, so in Belgrade on 9 June 2005, issue 110-00-45/2005-01, with all the signature of Predrag Bubal, by hand. According to the Regulation, it further states - this Regulation determines the amount of the special fee achieved by the conclusion of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets (hereinafter: commission). The amount of commission is 5% of the agreed price. Guys, is that why you fought so much for that Cuprom, is that why you fought so hard to resell our companies, so where there are 300 million of you 15 million ministers? Is that it? Are you the kind of racket and the kind of service for the Privatisation Agency and for the state authorities and for all the other 5% you charge? Instead of 15 million euros for kindergartens, for churches, for Hilandar and for whatever you want, we'll have it in our ministerial pockets. I would ask the government to answer us only if this is true or if I lied. I'm just asking if maybe I made it up, maybe I forged it, maybe I lied and let them tell me it's a lie, let them say it's a lie. If not, let's just explain how and how citizens can look into the eyes of those who decide who will take or kidnap certain businesses, and they'll take another 5% instead. So 5% of the people in the state administration's thieving are too much for our deplorable and harassed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3509	Mr. Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3510	I'm referring to article 101. As for me and New Serbia's MPs, it is possible that colleagues who do not think like us and understand this series of replicas and end up. Mr. Canak, or, as you prefer, Comrade Canak, you're talking about some tariffs, talking nebulose. How did you get that number, how much does a gas station cost, how did you get to know it like that? How much does a gram of cocaine and heroin cost, how did you get to know it, and do you know it? I watched the show, you were in the DOS presidency, and because of you, I am ashamed to vote for DOS, you said – I never give up my friends. Today, your MPs are submitting an amendment suggesting that we should take a little more care of our children, so nothing more than taking off the Hilandar, and your friends were handing out drugs to our children. That's what you're trying to do here with a series of replicas and that's the essence of what I told you... And what was who doing in this country during the one-party system, during DOS, during the first, second, third so-called democratic governments, let the state authorities investigate, and I as a man and father of two underage children seek it out, but you answer that... In a show that was broadcast directly, the citizens of Serbia watched it, you said – I do not give up my friend. Do you deny his actions? How many children in Vojvodina are poisoned with drugs? That was very democratic. That's why DOS went the way it went, among other things, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3511	Replica, MP Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3512	This is really fantastic! It is truly an incredible inability for the Lord of this party to understand when something is repeated so many times, five thousand times, fifty thousand times. But it's no problem, I'll repeat as long as there's a need. First of all, when I say I don't give up, I stand behind it, for the simple reason I have no intention of changing my friends the way day-to-day politics does. A serious man lasts longer than a day's policy. As for the particular man we're talking about, Nenad Opačić, at the time we cooperated, I didn't know he was involved in drug trafficking. When we learned that, the tip authorities arrested him and put him in jail, where he is to this day. Am I supposed to say that I've never met him, that I don't know who he is, so then show me a photo of him and his people providing our meetings? Was I supposed to do that? Is that how I was supposed to show what I stood for? I don't do that. I know a lot of people, and I'm not ready to give up any of them, to say, I don't know, I've never seen them, etc. With the same Velimir Ilic, who we're talking about now, I've talked many times about how we're going to make democratic changes in this country, and we've done many things together. However, when we came to the situation to ask about power, then Mr Ilic did not quite democratically behave, but well, we are people, we are different. But right now, this thieving thief, this isn't a robbery, this is road robbery; that's the whole point, and it's precisely because we didn't fight for it to be here whenever I mention the money you took for the Horgos concession -- Pozega is coming back to me -- how much does a gram of heroin cost. I've never taken heroin or cocaine or anything like that in my life, or had anything to do with narcotics. If you ask me, from my generation over 40 people died of that evil, and I know what a horror that is, and that is why I am the greatest opponent of narcotics. But you want to make me, what, a man who's not credible to ask what you did with millions of dollars, that he's not credible to ask where you get the right to give someone else's property in concessions, who has no right to ask how it is possible to make a contract that you keep secret from Serbian citizens because it's at their expense. What you did there was designed to escape to political pensions tomorrow, not to make Serbian citizens live better. This country gets some way, despite the government's efforts, not thanks to its efforts. You should be ashamed of what you're doing. But shame isn't your category, it's a law that will get in your way eventually, remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3513	Thank you very much. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. Let's hear something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3514	Mr. President, I'm surprised you're mad at me for reporting to article 101. I don't know what you expect to hear now as something new. (President: I expect you to quote me Article 101, for example. I will quote it the same way all previous MPs quoted it. (President: Since you've come out to report to the Rules of Procedure, let's at least respect him. Then let's each read the article. Here you go. You said you didn't understand what the MPs wanted, you said New Serbia's MPs don't understand, they don't understand. We understand everything you're doing. You want to tell a hundred times a told lie to make Serbian citizens believe it's true. It's your method of speaking here. I must tell you that it is, firstly, the property of the Republic of Serbia and that Mr Velimir Ilic is the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You can't say that building a highway is something that's harmful; of course, it's always useful for a country. It would be best if the state were building on its means that way, but if it doesn't have its resources, then building a concession. It's better to do something than do nothing. Your arbitraryness in some numbers - 20 million, million for this, a million for that, is simply amazing. I feel like you're sorry that you can't do that part of the job and that you're sorry that you'd do that. It doesn't mean that everyone does what you think and how you want to do it. Therefore, there are judicial authorities in this country, there are competent authorities who are investigating it. You are the Messenger of the people, so start the initiative. Let everyone for what he did, and not according to the law, answer. It doesn't make sense that in such a way, saying lies from day to day through the media, the press, these speakers, you want to convince the citizens of Serbia that what you're saying is true. The truth is only one thing, Serbia will get that part of the highway and it will be a pleasure for all Serbian citizens. Serbia has received 3,000km of roads in the past three years, and in this term it will gain more. This is what creates an opportunity for investment, and perspective, the future and a better life for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3515	Thank you. Replica, MP Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3516	Since you're taking it a little slower, I'll do it again. The point is this: the concept of a concession implies that unbuilt land is given and that a concessionary raises the infrastructure on an unbuilt land, and after exploiting it from, say, 20 years, it is usually returned to the property of the person who gave it, i.e. in this case, the state of Serbia. If this contract were correct, then land between Belgrade and Požega would be awarded in a concession and then the road would be built there, there would be compensation and that would be a concession. So, you're giving your way, which is never recorded anywhere in history, from Saturday to Belgrade, that on it, where there's already a road and payment ramps and everything, you charge the money from which the concessionary, you might think, is building a road from Belgrade to Požega. It's not a concession, it's a road robbery, it's an abuse of position, because that completed trip was paid by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina from a loan that she took from the World Bank and paid back that loan. So you're dealing stolen goods for private interest. That's what I'm talking about. It has nothing to do with anything but what I'm saying. It has nothing to do with the 1996 property law of the Republic of Serbia that brought the same Milosevic, whom we allegedly fought together. This has to do with the fact that if you do not show the concession agreement, the Horgos-Pozega highway, then we have the right to doubt that there is something in that document that is harmful to the citizens of Serbia and useful to Velimir Ilic and his accomplices. That's what this is about. Can we talk about this? Is Velimir Ilic, who told the public of Serbia -- yes, let Bojan Kostres, president of the Vojvodina Assembly, come to my house tomorrow, I will show him the contract, is Velimir Ilic a liar because he didn't do it? Whether Velimir Ilic is a liar when he brings a man into a position to come, and then he shows him, you see, he has blue covers, but you cannot open him because it is a secret. That's the whole truth, gentlemen. That's why you're so desperate to defend this whole defenseless story, because, of course, it's extremely important to you. I am very interested in how important it is for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3517	Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3518	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chanak, I am from Panchev. I need to talk slowly to make you understand. Panchevo is in Vojvodina and I as a resident of Pancheva and as a citizen of Vojvodina I don't think it's bad that Vojvodina will get one highway. It is true that there is one road called the highway, which goes from Horgos to Novi Sad to Belgrade, only everything is except the highway. You know this well, as the citizens of Vojvodina know well, as the citizens of Serbia do. As for the contract and who is a liar and who is not a liar, it is true that Mr. Ilic called Mr. Kostreš. Mr. Kostreš has come and seen that the contract has blue cover; for the possibility of taking new information from Mr. Kostreš, that's quite enough. I'm very pleased that Mr. Kostresh saw that the contract has blue cover. I agree with you absolutely when it comes to what you said, that whoever didn't smoke marijuana when he was young, who didn't play rock 'n' roll and didn't drive an engine has the opportunity to go into extremism. If I recall correctly, in the Republic Square you were calling, talking about hanging some people from Belgrade's bandits. If I remember correctly, you were taking down the Serbian Radio-Television board from the building. You had a lot of these extremist, maybe propaganda, things, and maybe you didn't smoke enough when you were young and you turned into some kind of extremism. Just one more thing and I'm done. There are three things you should not talk about: you should not talk about God before you know faith in him; you should not talk about tomorrow before dawn; you should not talk about another's sin before you remember your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3519	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3520	I'm really amazed, and I don't know how many times I have to say it again. First of all, it's not a concession contract, it's just shown where it's standing on the shelf. Secondly, as far as Subotica highway - Belgrade is concerned, he, as far as it was finished, ended up with AP Vojvodina's funds, since the AP Vojvodina took a loan from the World Bank, made the way, paid back the money and could end this if it was allowed to collect revenue from the payment ramps on the highway itself. So it's about dealing stolen property, gentlemen. You know that very well. You know very well that everything you're saying is ripped out of context, that my extremism, with the breaking of RTS plates, is the same tablet with the same sign that our children died in Vukovar, under the same sign that Bastille lied, untrue and all, under the same sign that the same Velimir Ilic beat the bulldozer, which, of course, is not an extremism, is not an entirely legitimate way of political struggle in Serbia. I ask another question: where do you get the idea that you're trying now, taking it out of context, to spray and bury it in sand the fact that you're going to hide the concession agreement on Horgos highway - Požega from the public's eyes, that no one saw its contents from the public's eyes, that you're going to hide the fact that you're getting a million euros for every pump on that highway, and 20 million you got for that to make that concession? Prove me wrong. Show the citizens of Serbia, show this assembly that contract, show what you signed on behalf of all those who should pay for it. I'll tell you, in the next 30 years, there will be 450m euros from Vojvodina, and that's 90,000 jobs, and this gentleman from Pancheva might wonder how many healthy lungs are in Pancheva, for example. It's all going away because you've all found your own personal interest in it all. Because of all this, you can talk about me whatever you want, you can talk about any one of us whatever you want, but you'll have to show that contract, and it'll be proof material at the trial that you must come to, that you'll be sitting on the defendant's benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3521	Thank you very much. I'm setting a lunch break. Resumption is at 15 o'clock. I'm asking the heads of the Parliament Clubs to come to the first floor. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief, I won't be handling the time allowed to rob you of all the time in this world. I understood the political reason why this amendment was rejected, it's about the Office for the National Investment Plan. We thought that we had extra bureaucracy, extra administrative staff, that we had extra ministries, not that we had special ministries without portfolios, within which there would be a director of the Office for the National Investment Plan and a special office for the National Investment Plan. The office now has special expenditures, so the money it was taken from Serbian citizens, 1800,000 for employees' salaries in the new office alone. All in all, one unnecessary cost for our country and for our citizens, especially because of the fact that we had waved in the previous government and the National Investment Plan and its results and everything some wanted and thought they could achieve through the National Investment Plan. It seems to me that those who have refused, with a strange explanation, and this amendment and who have explained to us in chapter 3.12. what the office is, that it is the government's service and how, in what way and what it does, the frameworks of action... I think it's just a build-up of labour within the state authorities, but first of all, I'd say politically similar labour forces, people, in this case, from the Democratic Party, which should get furniture or employment, if you're going in pure Serbian. After that, it doesn't matter in particular, we'll brag about how we spent our national money. This could have been done by any other ministry, and the Ministry of Economy, it could have been the Deputy Prime Minister, it could have been anyone, but you had to find a place for your staff, including the Minister, in this case it was Dragan Gilas, but you had to put new requirements and new burdens on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for that. We find that absolutely unnecessary. We think that the citizens of Serbia would know how to spend as much significant financial resources as we could help the poor, as much as we could, as recently mentioned, kindergartens to build, as many schools in Serbia as we could restore, as many computers to our children in schools to take. But it was obviously not of particular interest to the government. You've distributed it on the party line. They agreed in the government building of the Republic of Serbia, or on some DOS pleums, DOS-presidencies, and then it is not particularly important what the MPs say. I just expect you to tell us whether we will have projects from the National Investment Plan both in Kosovo and Metohija or not. What is a European solution, as Boris Tadic tells us, since I see that the European Union is asking us to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, so I am interested in what a European solution is. I'd like the minister to come out and tell us what Mr. President meant by that, when he says "we stand for a European solution". Does this mean that he thinks the same thing as Solana and Rehn, and they think that Serbia should kidnap Kosovo and Metohija? Then I am for the anti-European solution, i.e. to keep Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. I guess that's what we're different about. I am interested in whether the funding from the National Investment Plan will also be granted to our people in Kosovo and Metohija, or to our firms or to anyone else who submits a request or an appropriate project, whether they will be able to expect funding from the National Investment Plan or, in line with the words of Boris Tadic, who supports the European project. the abduction of Kosovo and the Metohija, it is absolutely impossible for our people to do so. One more thing, I forgot to say, when you're arguing about who's a thief, who's a junkie, or I don't know what everything, I have to say, both of you are absolutely right, but only when you're talking about those other guys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3524	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3525	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when you look at the amount of funds the Government has reserved for the Office for the National Investment Plan, you will see that these funds are quite large, you will see that in this section it is intended to take a lot of money from taxpayers to settle certain obligations, among other things, and the services to be provided for this office. What no one has mentioned all the time, nor has the minister, nor has it in the draft budget, is whether the budget will be set up and amounts related to the team. If this is dropped and forgotten, it's okay, then Serbian citizens will be able to get at least 1,000 tractors because they will not leave for the teams, but should focus on agriculture, so that our citizens can have the opportunity and machine to process this rich Serbian country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are joining the European Union, but it is characteristic and true, why is VAT in Europe 15% and with us 18%? Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you, if you're in the mood and if you know, is this information that I came up with accurate? It's a big question and the rest is unclear. If a surplus is actually achieved, which is not possible, given the unmistakable obvious obligations, it is possible that due to the first year of application of this VAT, which is a test mark from the perspective of 18%, the EU is not adjusted, and that is the surplus I am talking about, which is 15 billion dinars from 2006. Is there room for tax cuts? There is. The SRS believes that tax rates should be reduced and made easier for Serbian citizens to pay less taxes without red tape in Serbia spending and not spending their money. As you know, during this debate, it is noted that there are 7.5 thousand taxpayers in Serbia who charge taxes from citizens, and everything, according to our available data, 12 budgetary inspectors who control what needs to be controlled by those budget users, which is not the case. As is known, I repeat again, from 2000, 2001 to today no final account has been submitted to the National Assembly for consideration or discussion. This suggests that compared to the year 2000, which was then 52 billion, it then allocated 350 billion dinars to the budget, almost 6.7 times what it was, as it did in 2006. This year's budget is almost 10 times higher than 2000. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS believes that budget users are uncontrollable and that no one knows today in Serbia how much money goes to which expenditures, and Serbian citizens are not accounted for, nor invoices, so that they know who spends. I will point out again that 42 billion dinars are scheduled for goods and services in 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, that is a huge amount, and no one knows, nor has it been delivered to the MPs of the specifications, which are used by the goods of the budget users and with whom they trade. Secondly, what are these special services? For these special services, the SRS requires you to account for the citizens of Serbia, as taxpayers, and that they know and that they can control you how much money our government spends, and it's too expensive. No minister in the world boasts of surpluses, as the surplus is most often due to a poor economic budget. What kind of budget is that if you have one year of neutral assets, and you're showing it as a surplus of 31 billion dinars? That was last year, and this year you're already predicting that you're going to have a deficit. So, what are you doing? First of all, when you adopt the budget, you will certainly put 20-30 billion aside, and later you will pour over and use it according to your needs. Then they'll say -- now we have either surplus or deficit. That's impossible. There must be a balance between income and expenditure of zero. In the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, if a finance minister during the year had 100 million dinars in our money, or 80,000 euros, surpluses, he would have to resign. This surplus is not a product of the economic budget, nor can citizens know whether it went for real needs, whether there was room for these funds to be used for social needs or not. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the office in question has about 77 million. But you also have an Association Office. The accession office also spends huge funds, envisioning 72m dinars. What's that? What are we supposed to do to raise that kind of funds for the Association Office? It's not a good idea. These are huge material resources, and in no way should they be allowed to be used in such a way. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at how funds are spent on budget users, you have various agencies, you have various administrations, you have a ministry in the ministry, the problem is whether those needs are real, whether you who use budget funds have submitted a final account or not. If you have not submitted the final bill for 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006... (Momir Markovic, from Place: I 2000) ... and 2000, as my colleague Markovic said, I don't know why the finance minister is coming before this assembly. How can he come before the National Assembly without passing accounts where the national money went? It is, in the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, absolutely unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS will also insist in its amendments... Although, as said in yesterday's debate, when we faced the fact that the government did not provide any explanation or explanation for why no valid answers and explanations were given for the rejected amendments... It can't. The amendments must be considered at the government, the government must give an opinion, and the MPs have the right to plead. Since there is little time left, later, during the debate on amendments, I will individually declare myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3526	Thank you very much. MP Alexander Vukitch, come in. There's only a minute and a half left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3527	Thank you, Mr. President, I won't take a minute and a half. Just to inform the MPs that information has arrived that the German intelligence service has announced over several media that they have captured Marty Ahtisaari that he has received $40m from Albanians over his plan to resolve the Kosovo-Metochy crisis. Those in this hall who were delighted to welcome Ahtisaari's plan and who convinced us that something was fair and good I must say – for 40m euros, and for what and how much he was caught, he did a good job. But regardless of what Ahtisaari did, Serbia and him, and not these great friends of Boris Tadic from the EU that take away Kosovo and Metohija, and not today Michael Polt who continued the independent Kosovo campaign... To inform you, today again in the Belgrade City Assembly he held a conference where he spoke not of Belgrade and Belgrade, but of Kosovo and Metohija, and it was independent. Serbs will not listen to them because Serbs do not sell their country for dinner or for 40m euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3528	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3529	Very short. It was a question of whether the National Investment Plan included both Kosovo and Metohija. I want to tell you that there are funds in the NIP that are scheduled for Kosovo and Metohija. By the way, the total funds are about five billion dinars, of which 3.7 were allocated to the ministry itself, and this rest was allocated to other ministries, for the purposes of Kosovo and Metohija. The second thing I wanted to answer was the question of the VAT rate level in us and in other countries, with the conclusion that it is lower in the EU. I want to tell you that's just not true. So the EU does not have a single rate, but each country has its own rates. I will give you some information: the German VAT rate is 19%, in Slovenia 19%, in Macedonia 19%, in Croatia 24%, and our rate of 18% is lower than the average of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3530	Here you go. Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I received a notice from the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that from 19 hours due to the transfer of the Egyptian-Serbia volleyball game, and later the water polo game Partizan - South, and I as a star hope that Partizan will run over these Croats, of course... In any case, I am interested, Mr. President, to announce to the MPs... So we can continue to work normally until the end of the agenda, provided that it goes into a delayed transmission, so that, immediately after the end of this transmission, it continues to carry on the delayed transfer of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that everyone who speaks could be on the second channel of national television. I suppose that was your conversation with Tomislav Nikolic, so I ask you to explain it once again, for the sake of the public but also for the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3532	So, at the end of the game, Partizan - South continues to broadcast a delayed transmission of the National Assembly session, so that all MPs who are to be discussed during that period will be broadcast after the game is over. If this amendment is no longer to be reported, we shall move on to the next amendment. On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. National MP Petar Jojic. I'm sorry, Mr. Jojic, I skipped. The amendment, with a correction of 21 June 2007, was submitted to Article 5 by MP Srdjan Shain. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, since 21 June 2007, is legally possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted this amendment. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. The amendment did not become an integral part because the Finance Committee did not consider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3533	In any case, I would like to thank you for understanding of this amendment and to clarify some things, so that MPs can make it easier, as well as Serbian citizens, to see the consequences of this new situation in the budget. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment does not create conditions only in the Republic authorities to coordinate their work and be effective in implementing the Roma integration process, but also conditions are created that at local level cities, i.e. municipalities, have a reliable co-worker in the process of implementing local action programmes. We had a situation that we as the Roma Party were visiting municipalities and talking to the presidents of municipalities, regardless of what political parties they came from, and that everyone was telling us heartily that they do not know how and how to write quality projects that would help the Roma, and that although there is a great political will at the municipal level, regardless of what political party it is, they cannot be realised these things, because they simply lack quality projects that can animate funds, whether they are from a republican level, whether they are from international organisations, and simply put it as a very serious need. That this will not contribute to the better life of only Roma, but to all citizens in Serbia, I will illustrate it with just a few examples and I think we need to explain it to the citizens of Serbia. The result of these amendments should be in 2007, we define construction, among other things, and several production capacities, means, some that will employ people in non-hygienic settlements, where there is a large part of Roma, but we in the Roma Party do not think that only Roma should be employed in these production capacities; one serious part of Roma should be involved in the production, but must be involved in the production of other minorities and members of the majority, because this is the only way to talk about improving the situation of Roma. Everything else, all other interpretations are neither of the Roma Party nor of the programs that we represent. So, in no case can it happen to be closed factories, new ghettos, new mahales, and then someone makes a remark that the funds are defined exclusively for one part of the citizens. So we need to be very clear about this, as well as about the realization of the health care work, where last year 60 million were defined for the realization of such projects. The funds didn't go to some particular association, etc., the funds went to health homes, and in health homes everybody worked, they were all users of these funds, but only 60% of those 60 million were realised, because neither the health homes nor the republican level had the corresponding capacities that we could actually realise these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3534	Thank you. Your time is up. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Sections 3, 5, 12, 26 and 46 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Marton. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3535	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, MPs and MPs, MPs of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina and Vojvodjanski MPs have tabled several amendments. In the morning, Ambassador Alexander Jerkov spoke of her amendment. I would say, as an MP for the Social Democrats League, that these amendments want us to point to some of the bad aspects of this budget. We talked about the one according to Vojvodina in the last few days, all the MPs of our group, and nothing changed there. When next week, I suppose, there's a budget vote, our MPs will press the red button and vote against the budget. As far as the amendments are concerned, we believe it is much more logical that, in particular, the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia gets smaller funds, and that more funds are given to young talents, because they are the future of this country. I spoke several days ago at a session of the Assembly, and I should say again, because I believe that this has also caused considerable attention in the media, that by adopting this budget, the Serbian Parliament, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would violate our country's obligations to the Council of Europe for, I repeat, the financing of Tanjug. We believe that in this way other news agencies are placed in a much worse position and that Tanjug is placed in something that should by no means be... In 2004, even three years ago, the Council of Europe made it clear in its Resolution 1397/2004 that the Assembly is calling on Serbia-Montenegro to refrain from trying, and I am now going to say this a little louder, control, influence or threat to the media. The Serbian government should not use, this is very important, Mr. Minister, a state budget aimed at retaining its political influence on the remaining media in its own state and at the harm of independent media. That's why I proposed an amendment to erase, practically, the financing of the Tanjug news agency. Of course, I will underline it once again, and I have talked to Mr. Djuric about it, we have nothing against employees in that news agency, but we believe that Serbia is first and foremost breaking its obligations to the Council of Europe, it is involved in the work of the media, and thus the government of the Republic of Serbia shows that it is not exactly respecting its obligations to those who can open the door to a better future. I call on the MPs to vote for our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3536	The word is Mr. Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3537	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I worked in Tanjug, I was assistant editor-in-chief, but I'm not a lawyer for Tanjug. I answered the word for principled reasons, because Mr. Marton, whom I highly respect, calls for a recommendation from the European Council. I must say that the recommendations are one and that the recommendations, of course, should be taken into account, however, as the institutions in the state cannot be regulated by the European Council or by the institutions in this country for a reason. I know personally, and I will tell you that Tanjug is a very subordinate agency, because right now in Tanjug is working 360 employees, and only half of which are journalists and editors; my colleagues, headed by Director Luke Mitchet, who, pardon the expression, resurrected Lazarus, spends every day there from 16 to 18 hours, and the salaries were barely 30,000-40,000 dinars. You've got media today, I won't name it, where the monthly salaries of the newspaper director, the paper editor, are between 8,000 and 11,600 euros. In addition, I ask you to bear in mind the following: no European country, especially a country in the environment, is without its national agencies. Macedonians have their national agency, Bulgarians have BAT, I've been to Sofia more than once, in Hungary there is, in Poland there is, in Czechoslovakia etc. I'm sorry, I don't represent state policy, but from the point of view of state and national interests, I think every country should have a national agency, and when it comes to Tanjug, there are certain historical reasons why Tanjug should exist. My colleague Marton was talking about independent media. Don't convince me, colleague, of the Syntagma of the independent media, because quite responsibly and professionally I claim it to be a very large flossula. First, independent of who and who. Another thing, let's not fool ourselves into being so-called. The independent media is truly independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3538	He has his word, according to the amendment, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Let me inform you that, after the President's decision and in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, the work of the Assembly will continue after 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3539	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this is what this is about: it is practically a government request that we, as parliament, approve the funding of the government agency, and there is a huge difference between government and state. We can compromise on the need for Serbia as a state to have its own news agency and we can differ on this, but I don't think that as a parliament we should have any different views on the government's relationship with the situation where the government is asking us to support the government's news agency. If this is the Serbian State Agency, who chooses the board of directors of this agency? Who chooses the director of this agency? Who chooses the editor-in-chief? By what criteria does Tanjug work? We know the historical dimension of Tanjug, but it's a distant past. What I need to talk to you about today is the way this country's citizens spend their money. A reform of the media sector in Serbia was launched in 2003. In a legal sense, I don't think we can argue too much with this reform. The second question is how does this law apply, but we formally have a public service, we have a Republic Broadcasting Agency, we have a competition procedure as a form of public service management, a board of directors of public service. All of this is also needed in this case, if we want to talk at least about the illusion that justice is criteria of the state agency. It is not a state agency, it is a government agency, and in committees of parliament, we can discuss in the expert public the need for a state agency of that format and such a profile at all. I don't think at all that through this amendment we're discussing, whether it is necessary or not, and how it's done, but this is actually about something that is completely unacceptable, which is the government's request that we finance the work of the government's news agency, which we can't possibly influence, work that we can't control and work that isn't going through in a satisfactory way if we look at everything that's coming out of Tanjug in the last few years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3540	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3541	I'll be no longer than two minutes, Mr. Gristle. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, even though we have agreed something and we really respect it and we are trying to sum up everything we want to say about the budget in the shortest possible time, then we are provoked to talk about what is a distant past, what is our future, what really happened in Serbia, and what is yet to happen. Namely, I have no divine opinion or MPs of the Serbian Radical Party about what Tanjug is doing today. Of course, it's a government agency, and it's not a random choice of some other things that these party lists and minority lists are going to run for, so it's just by chance that they're connected to Tanjug, it doesn't matter. I have to notice another thing. I was watching yesterday, and I don't know if you've seen, dear friends, on TV B92 in "Poligraph" by a man who's been in charge and responsible editor of BETA for years. He's the State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture today. Now I have to ask you if every journalist who ever did something to you, every journalist who faked or lied on your behalf or worked on the orders of the occupier, has to get a certain place in the state structure? Is that why you sent Grujic Spasovic to be an ambassador to Sarajevo? Listen, Grujica Spasovic protects Serbian national interests in Sarajevo. You're making fun of Serbia. You had Diklic in Paris. You, Mr. President of the National Assembly, here you have a journalist who played us impartial, I guess he's a media advisor, Arbutin from Pinka. I always say, how can he always cheer for yellow, always looking for something bad for radicals, and something good for these others? There he is, now he's become a media advisor. Did I lie to you? What do we see now? We now see that you actually have a network of journalists who are not journalists at all but socio-political workers, that these are your political servants who need to fulfill your political tasks. What was the role of the BETA agency – to assist Serbia's occupation in different ways, to help DOS come to power and then to hold DOS in power. Now what do we do about ordinary citizens who don't have the money as a government to finance Tanjug and who we don't want to finance semi-occupational agencies or semi-occupational media, from B92 and beyond, what do we do? Kill each other or fight. That's why we're gonna fight and tell the truth. Tell me, which one of these isn't true? Is Grujica Spasovic your ambassador to Sarajevo? What international public law school did he finish, diplomatic-consular, anything, maybe some CIA class somewhere or I don't know what? Tell me if he was at that Marshall center, I don't know where. I hear he wasn't there either. Tell me, what did he end up being? You sent a reporter to Australia, who doesn't speak two simple extended sentences. I guess in six or seven years, he learned those two simple extended sentences. Meso, what I'm saying is absolutely true. The fact that Karadjordjevic does not know Serbian is your problem, too, and not ours, and I have to warn you about that. I now have a question for those who do not represent the majority, as long as you present some people with false interest – to make it fancy and modern I am a prominent journalist, and I am not actually a journalist, I am a socio-political worker. Because, you know, for Michael Kovac, you can't say he's illiterate, nobody can say that, but you see, when he shows up, you know that he will represent the politics of Cedomir Jovanovic and Boris Tadic. I'm sure he won't be objective, quite certain. Whoever you look at on B92, Chad seems to have fallen out of their eyes, and Boris Tadic from another part of the body. But that's the essence of things. Where is objectivity and where is information for Serbian citizens? Where is what Serbian citizens want to get as something that is rational, as something that is reasonable? There is no such thing in Serbia today. It is not a problem in Tanjug, it is a problem for us to have Tanjug more objectively, not to be edited from the Serbian Government's press office. I think there should be a state agency, if it's possible to be a rational medium, which will provide the right information about both the opposition and the government. I don't think that's the case today. Anyway, I don't see Beta's better, and now there's a primate on the market. I remind you that Goran Svilanovic was the first to start destroying state institutions in 2000. He fell into the media and said – from today you will only use "Betin" service, because he knew what must be used to carry out the occupation to the end. So, dear friends, things aren't so simple and simple. I'd like you to explain to us this nature of socio-political workers, to tell us how it is possible that those who are, for God's sake, objective, impartial and professional journalists... That is, do not let me remind you that journalists worked in the cabinet, from Gaša Knezevic to that Dragan, what's the name of that unionist, Milovanovic, or I don't know who. All the press, from Studio B, B92, became chief of staff. Oh, come on, is there people in this country who are going to be doing their job, not all of them being socio-political workers? Are there any in our country or not? There, Rajko Djuric was a journalist. What a black journalist, you see him as a socio-political worker! He was told by one in the Serbian government what to say against the Serbian Radical Party, and he is the whole campaign against the Serbian Radical Party... But I found out. I know all the details. I know how much money it cost, Mr. Guric. I know a lot about it, because they talked about it in detail and thoroughly, why it went from Tanjug and how radicals were taken away by Roma voices, etc. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: Did he get his hands on it or was there a suitcase?) ) Right away, let me tell you that there were no suitcases, it was in the bags, to be put in the jacket. Let me tell you right now how it went, without tax evasion, guaranteed. That's how the Serbian government functioned. That's how everything works today. I mean, not about the government, that we have to break up with that hypocrite, to break up with how best of us are those who are godlessly independent. They are independent only of the state of Serbia and of the Serb people. We want those who are independent of power and those who are independent of the occupiers, from those who rob us of Kosovo and Metohija. We want normal people who want normal Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3542	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr Rajko Đuric came forward for the replica, so the MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3543	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I had no intention of taking my word for it, but I was called, so I must. First of all, I have to say that I agree with Mr. Wolfich, and thank him for being a principled advocate for Tanjug. Without the intention of entering some, to put it this way, principled things, I'm going to say quite openly and publicly that behind the attempts to shut down the Tanjug stood the interest of certain individuals to get hold of the Tanjug buildings. That's what our public needs to know. They were not concerned about Serbia's information system, but were overly interested in the Tanjug building, as there are many unresolved issues today concerning the rooms of Tanjug, the old Tanjug, such as the premises in Knez Mihailovo, where the International Press Centre was, etc. Unfortunately, although some ministers from the previous government, such as Mr Stojkovic, who was extremely in the mood for the matter to be carried out on a clean-up, tried, until today this thing was not carried out on a clean-up and it would obviously be a serious task of this current government. Now, as to the word "bag," as you say, Mr. Markovic, our party was the only one who didn't get anything from anyone. I don't know why these unnecessary plantings. Furthermore, I ask Mr. President and the competent authorities of this country to bestow upon all political parties the bills from which they received money at the time of the election campaign. That's what the citizens of our country are looking for. There are government authorities, and I'm guessing they know very well who he was getting the money from. And, please, the cards on the table and the truth in front of the citizens. I don't want to defend myself against unnecessary accusations, because, excuse me, I read Dostoyevsky and Kafka and our Ivo Andric and, of course, the famous book of London "Recognition". Therefore, defending yourself against accusations would be a trap for those who are needlessly accusing you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3544	Thank you, Mr. Guric. There's a word Mr. Rajko Baralic, so Mr. Wolfie, I hope it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3545	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the SPS, is an unacceptable initiative, although it is legitimate and comes from a respected colleague, Marton, in this way to disable the functioning of the Tanjug. Tanjug is not a government agency. She is a pro-government, she was and she was, and if we're smart, and if we're not, then we'll have others. I allow this issue to be discussed on the Committee on Culture and Information, so that everyone can say what they want and have. I hope we will have the strength to ensure the continuity of the new Yugoslavia's "secret agency" formed by a communist Moša Pijada, and I will be very pleased; the young hawk has since this morning rejected this amendment with this argument, because apparently Moša Pijada has not lived in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3546	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. By amendment, Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3547	I won't take more than three minutes. I didn't agree to a single word, but it will show up because I came from a private conversation with one of the top representatives of the regime in Serbia, and it's not right to abuse it that way, but I'm sure we'll get all the information on the official way who it is and how we got the money. As for the Serbian Radical Party, I must inform you that we have submitted a complete financial report. We didn't lie, we didn't make anything, we showed how much money we spent and invested; of course, much less than the parties in power, the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus, and some in the opposition, but certainly much, because we wanted to win, we wanted Serbia to go through change. We showed all this, all the money we got from the budget we spent, we took the loan, we're paying back the day-to-day loan, we're going to go back in September or October for the last war, and we're not going to have any more obligations until the end. Thanks for asking, we're good as a company, and we're doing a great job. So, we as a political party both in the idea and in any other respect, we have to get ahead of ourselves, we're proud of it, and some of you ask others, not us, why they didn't hand over their reports, and in the end... Or, as they say, for the sake of donor safety, I don't know what security is at stake for them. The lady had to remind me, I wouldn't remember that. Anyway, I wish you'd just said who wants the Tanjug building. Why don't you say that one of the top representatives of the regime is looking for the Tanjug building, as the Gestapo once asked for, I don't know if you know about it; he asked for it in 1941, and some want it today to kidnap, and they look like them and millions of euros measure their property. One's the Deputy Prime Minister, I don't know if there's another, I think there's one, and that's the one. The other is one minister, especially interested. What's everybody ashamed to say? What's the problem with telling everyone that Djelic, like the Gestapo, wants to take the building that way? As you can see, I don't mind saying that. It's no problem for me to say, but I don't know how he doesn't mind that he has to take everything under his paw, I don't understand it. I understand that I don't mind saying everything, but I don't understand this. I'm sorry I made it too long, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3548	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Let's go, we'll change, and we'll give Mr. Delic's word before he travels. He submitted an amendment to Section 9 of Article 5. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the government did not accept it. Here you go, Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3549	With this amendment, we wanted to point out to the Serbian government that it is time to break the continuity of the adoption of the budget, which our army drops year after year to an ever lower technical and technological level. Although we are talking about modernising the military, our army is currently in these areas, not to mention the European level, at the lowest level. I've specifically looked back on two classifications here. One classification refers to buildings and military facilities, although all these funds are intended primarily for the construction of military buildings and then for the construction of apartments. I was merely through the budget of the number of apartments that could be built, something over 420, to point to the problem the military has, 15,500 people without any apartment, or 22,000 people who have an inadequately solved housing issue. That's why I've been asking for an increase in these funds with this amendment. What the government said certainly was wrong, as it did not have in mind that all amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs were mutually agreed, and they were particularly in line with the first amendment submitted by Mr Veroljub Arsic and based on which a very different budget allocation was practically made. The second section refers to the economic classification of machines and equipment. The classification refers otherwise to arms, ammunition and general remont. In total, it is foreseen, if translated into euro, about 40m euros. Gentlemen, for 40m euros today you can buy a modern fourth-generation plane of Russian origin, while aircraft of Western origin are more expensive. Serbia-Montenegro's sky today is guarded by aircraft that were active in the 1970s. These are MiG-21 planes, while all MiG-29 planes have been grounded for several years, I say all of them, and you know we have five and two pairs, two hunting pairs. If we wanted to modernise armored-mechanized units, we could modernize with all these means just one armored battalion of N-84 tanks. So much for these two items. Mr. Minister, I wanted to draw your attention to three more things. One of the most endangered categories today in Serbia are wartime military disableds. After all, it was my soldiers or my war buddies. They, when the law was passed in government, protested in front of the Serbian government and were then deceived, because everything that was withdrawn from the procedure was resolved by a regulation. I ask you, and I think that here through discussions, even the ruling coalition, unity has been achieved that the issue of wartime military disability must be resolved in a different way and that this continuity in their ever worse and worse material position must be interrupted. It is often heard that their question, residential or otherwise, should be solved by the one who called them into the war. Gentlemen, the wartime military people and all those defending Serbia have been invited to war by Serbia and they have not defended any individual, but have defended their country. Next, Mr. Minister, in April 2007, the average net earnings in Serbia amounted to 26,632 dinars, while the average earnings of officers at the same time amounted to 24.119 dinars, the average earnings of subordinates were 14.369 dinars. On the basis of the Law on the Military of Yugoslavia, Article 75, the average salary of an officer shall not be less than three net earnings, from three to five, but if we are talking about a minimum, it means, of three net earnings, and the average salary sub-offices 70% of the average salary of the officers. I also want to tell you that in the Serbia-Montenegro Army, 64% are officers, and that's all high-tech cooks, there's a large number of magistrates and doctors in science, and those other 36% are senior officers. You know that a number of lawsuits have been filed, thousands, by professional persons and military pensioners for the payment of claims under Article 75. The law of the Yugoslav Army. The state should pay more than a billion euros in those charges. Some disputes have already reached the Supreme Court. If these verdicts are unfavourable, you know that on this issue the protection of their rights established by the professional members (although it is not popular to sue their country) will also ask the International Court in Strasbourg. What can Serbia do on its way to Europe if several tens of thousands of its citizens sue their country, not because they are damaged by law, but because the laws of the Serbian state do not apply? Mr. Minister, the non-financing of social security legal rights from military insurance is getting worse from year to year, and it was very pronounced in 2006, with a tendency to continue in 2007. In the past year, only net pensions have been paid regularly, and everything else is controversial. From December 2005 to today, no contribution is paid for health insurance of 7.2% on net pensions. Based on this, 1.1 billion dinars were to be paid during 2006. Unpaid liabilities based on the use of military insurance rights on 30.4.2007 amount to 435 million dinars, of which 32.5 million dinars are spent on war insurance fees, 9.7 million dinars for funeral expenses and post-mortem aid, 11.9 million dinars for refunding costs for the purchase of drugs and 10.9 million dinars for refunding treatment costs. The defence ministry regulation provides for 3 per cent of which goes to residential security and half per cent to recover to improve the standard of military pensioners from net pensions. During 2006, 381 million dinars were to be paid for housing security, and only 2.6 million or less were provided, while liabilities of 658 million were created. A regulation on the temporary financing of the Republic of Serbia for the period January - June 2007 planned to fund social security rights from military insurance companies worth eight billion from the budget and 725 million from the defence ministry's revenues. Right away, Mr. Minister, let me tell you that all these funds that are planned to achieve military and defence revenues are very controversial and can only be counted on the funds allocated from the budget. With the planned funding, the monthly quota amounts to a billion and 533 million dinars, and only net pensions of a billion and 483 million dinars can be financed, housing costs of 33 million dinars. There are 105 million dinars missing a month, as a contribution to health care, 36 million for housing security and 7 million dinars for recovery. This will endanger 170,000 military insurance companies and will not be able to pay a $32.5m debt to refund drug costs. A debt to Serbian civil health institutions by the military has risen to 435 million dinars. The established health contribution of 7.2% and 3% for improving the material position of military pensioners, which has not been paid since December 2005, reached 2,416.000,000 on 28 February 2007. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorities of the Serbian Parliament have been asked to provide the budget with financial resources for the exercise of rights from the social security of military insurance companies. I've already said what the average salary and professional officers and professional officers are. Their salary is 0.9%, and I said the legal minimum is three, the coefficient is three. I have already said that since December 2005, the Fund has not paid off those net pension contributions at a aggregate rate of 10.2%. The total debts referred to above shall be 10,557,000,000, and that shall be: the fees referred to in Article 76. The VJ Act for the period August 2004 - November 2007 - 6.879,000,000; the harmonisation of the pension base based on 340 points, because all pensioners who were retired before August 2004 have significantly lower pensions precisely because of these 340 points, that is 842.500,000; the contribution to net pensions at a aggregate rate of 10.2% - 2.83,000. The draft budget provided by the Serbian government to the National Assembly provided only net pension funds and a 7.2% contribution to health insurance, as well as an increase in net pensions that I think is projected from 1.7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3550	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of the public, I just want to use this amendment to remind myself that only 63.6 billion dinars from the budget, or about 11%, are separated from the Ministry of Defence; that for the defence inspectorate of 10 million seven is set aside for travel, for the Military Security Service of 16 million is as much as 9.1 million are travel costs, and for the Military Intelligence Service of 65.5 million is travel costs. And I would also like to remind you that major abuses are in the Ministry of Defense. I have asked a parliamentary question about one of these, and it refers to a 30m-euro remont plane in Russia. To remind me, the Ministry of Defence has asked the finance ministry to grant additional 5.4m euros for allegedly paying the VAT, which is not normal under the law. I also want to remind myself that there is a new big robbery in Serbia's military. Namely, the agriculture minister has nominated privates, some from DS and Djordjevic from JUL, to take from the military for free and free aircraft for anti-urban protection, and they are known to have huge profits. Next thing you know... (President: Time.) Just one more second. A defence minister who was formerly a counsellor and paid well in the SDPR is now placing his colleagues with whom he has already arranged some of the National Investment Plan's jobs and without a tender. Therefore, I ask you to prevent these abuses and to adopt the amendment proposed by Mr Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3552	Thank you very much. Mr. Petronijevic, as amended, followed by Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come out to say a few words about this amendment from another point of view compared to the one proposed by Mr. General Bozidar Delic. On this issue, the issue of the part of the budget relating to the Ministry of Defence, as we say to the military, the government said in a way that the issue was seen from a technical angle, a technical angle, and Mr Delic was talking about essential issues. In response to the Government's response not to accept this amendment, they state the reasons, you all got and had the opportunity to read, which talk about technical issues of the budget. We do not have the government's answer on the essential issue, and that is why I want to warn the public here that the SPS is on the side of the essential issue, which Bozidar Delic spoke of. For these reasons, we generally support the separation of most of the military funds in order to improve its material position, with a view to building military infrastructure, military equipment, weapons and military equipment. In this regard, I would like to stress that this is a policy of continuity in relation to the military, which has lasted since 2000. In fact, since 2000, military collapse has begun. The army is collapsing as an institution, and the people who seem to be bringing it into a very difficult position. Her collapse as an institution is already well known, the current president of the Republic, the then defence minister, began; the current defence minister was his best man, Sutanovac, then only helped him, and now he was given the hand to finish it. We want the army to return to its reputation, we want it to stop and bring down that institution, and the government is offering us a policy of continuity. A question for the minister who came out, so when he gets back, he can answer. It is the relationship between the previous government and this new government, when the Democratic Party entered it. The previous government at least formally proposed a portion of the budget relating to the people's defence in the work concerning salaries of about 700 million more than the current government. So the current government has proposed less for 700 million. For what? You've just had a chance to hear, the officer has an average basic salary of 24,000, or a third of what the regulations say he has; Petty Officer 14,000. How are they meant to enforce regulations in this area without speaking of respecting those people who honor their work? When even the rule of law that regulates it is not respected, how does the government plan to resolve these issues? In particular, there are a lot of reasons to answer, when everyone's salary is increased, when it's debated here whether 100,000, 150,000 MPs, ministers, cabinet chiefs, state secretaries, and I don't know all of whom, and these are the average wages I mentioned earlier. Also, about 50,000 military pensioners are in a position to be owed large funds. The government should give an answer on how it will settle. He spoke in more detail, Mr Delic, and I ask again: the previous government at least predicted in the budget proposed to us, so it could not have been adopted, because it would have turned into a technical, 800 million more for the part relating to donations to compulsory social security organisations; why did this government propose less and 50,000 pensioners are in a situation where their pensions are constantly reduced without respecting the rules that regulated their pension? How does the government plan to repay that debt to military pensioners? And, of course, a question of wartime military invalids. It is one category of honest people who have found themselves in such a situation because they have fought for this country, which has been called upon by the state to fight for this country, and instead of compensation and recognition for it, they are in a situation where they are trying to provide at least the minimum rights that follow them under the law. I am pleased to announce that the Socialist Party of Serbia last year when it supported this government, Vojislav Kostunica, was in a position to prevent the adoption of a law on martial law, including by reducing the rights of wartime wartime disabled people. So, when we sum everything up, I know today is not a good time to talk about the military, talk about wartime military people, it's not modern today. These people fought honorably for this country. Today, the military and those people who have found themselves in this situation in public are forced, especially in the media and politics, to feel bad, to be declared even war criminals and to call them what I know by all the expressions. So, I know it's not that time, there will come a certain time when the SPS will be an important factor and participate in power, when these people will be so respected and appreciated in this country again, because they deserve it. I'm gonna end this story with it, I'm gonna go back to the beginning. The government has technically answered the essential questions of the army at the moment it is located. We support the essential question, which is that the military must be able to improve the material position, it must be restored to the reputation it had. Of course, we doubt that, given who's leading her now, who's in charge, but while she's at it, we'll fight for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3554	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3555	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no minister, there is no Mr. Vice President who has criticised the draft budget in this segment to discuss the financing of the Ministry of Defence. I think they're necessary for our debate because we have a completely different attitude towards one and the other approach. I think it is very important at this point to ask what Serbian citizens are paying for when they allocate more than 60 billion to fund Serbia's Army. What does that pay for? Can any of Serbia's citizens and citizens count on the privilege that at the moment those who are asking for such large amounts of money are counting on? Did the army ever make an account for what she did in our name? Has anyone on behalf of the military done what the army of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then the state union, today Serbia, has done, shared the fate of those on whose behalf it has done so? For us, this budget is unacceptable, among other things, because so much money is being allocated to fund Serbia's Army. This is not set aside for military reform, it is not set aside to improve the conditions in which 18-year-olds, respecting the law and constitutional obligation, will serve the military term. It stands out for the security of Karadzic, Mladic, maintaining in the lives of utopia, militarism and irresponsibility, which is the essential feature of the Serbian Army. Who's responsible for the blast in Paracino? Is that what parliament was talking about? Half the city was destroyed, with a reason for self-detonation. Who is responsible for the murder of two soldiers in Topcider, downtown Belgrade in 2004? Who is responsible for the shameful argument we faced after that? Where does a person get the right to seek such great money without acting irresponsiblely toward the lives of those to whom he should care? So we soldiers in the center of town get killed like we're at war. As the state that the military defended was shrinking, the bellies of the generals increased. I'm not talking about everyone, but I'm talking about what's the impression that's created and that has to change. No modern army is built in rituals. No modern army is built by dividing money with broad arms. It's not enough to put a saber in someone's hand and organize a tragic ceremony in the center of town, a parade when the parade seats are gone, a celebration when there's no place to celebrate. If we want to be a responsible parliament, then we also need to talk about it responsibly. Before any talks about reform, we need to agree on the goals that this army needs to achieve. If our army is a defensive army, then politics should tell us who is threatening this country and in what way. If it is the policy that thinks it is protected by the use of the military, then it must be asked the question of the price before we get an account, because those who defended their arguments by using weapons and led Serbia and the military to the position we are in today, that we are a state without borders, that we are a country full of refugees and exiled, that we are a state of warless people, that we are the state in which officers seek justice before the European Court of Justice at the same time that officers are not prepared to face international law and obligations arising from it, let's say, before the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague. Today, the state is a hostage of that mentality, which seeks, among other things, in the army, no one can ask a question. These are other times. When parents are asked to give their child, these parents have the right to ask what conditions that child is serving a military term, how he is treated, why those who are obliged to care for those lives do not do so, and when they do not do so, why no one asks them why they are acting in such a way. Mr Batic is in our parliamentary group. He's a lawyer for the family of murdered guards. I spoke very carefully, I didn't say for a moment that I knew who killed them, I didn't even talk about suspicion, although I think we all know very well what it was all about, which describes this event, because this is a debate about the budget, but that 60 billion and more, and that money can't be spent as it was in the previous time. A hundred million for two intelligence services. What are those intelligence services doing? What do they do? Who do they account for? Do they bear responsibility for incompetence, for deluded information, for abuse? No, because it's a rule of service. If that was the rule of service, then it's the wrong rule because look at our army today. Do we appreciate these officers, do we appreciate their soldiers, do we respect their victims? The answer to all these questions is - no, and it must be changed in this House. It's too much of an accident in this country that we could be so irresponsible. We are against this budget and because 11% of the budget is allocated to the Army of Serbia, so that the Serbian Army remains as it is and is deeply wrong. I don't want to talk about positive examples, I don't want to talk about good individuals, because as such, they will soon become victims of this wrong system of values, that system of values that has the right to knock on your door and bring your life to that door, as children have done for the past 15 years, and it has the freedom not to make an account when that child returns to the coffin. There are no funds in this budget that the military requires to carry out investigations and determine responsibility for those who destroyed the lives of Serb soldiers as if we were at war. We're full of memo drawers from parents who lost children in the military, their suspicions, evidence that the military was so cocky, and military investigative authorities, in investigations that were conducted that the post-mortem findings were signed, that the obvious facts were ignored. There are no dinars in the draft budget to clear that legacy. That's why we can't get those 63 billion, not because we want our soldiers humiliated, our officers humiliated. Our military tradition can't be an excuse for all the incompetences we face today. This tradition obliges us that our officers are educated in the best schools, that they have the best conditions. Our history obliges us to defend that policy that will never seek its meaning in a war conflict as a form of solving the problems we face. These 63 billion are being given to make no difference, and that's why we vote against it. Every honor to honest officers, like every honor to honest MPs, honest politicians, every honest man in the country, but if we want these people to come to terms, then we need to create fair values and affirm them, and that doesn't seem like the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3556	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Mr Vasiljevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3557	I didn't answer the amendment, I answered the Rules of Procedure to answer. I just wanted to answer some things. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I've been a wartime military invalid, a war participant since 1990, and I'm really not ashamed of it, I'm proud of it. Every day I've spent in the war, I've come out of it with a proud, pure cheek like 99.9% of my fellow Members and a participant in the war. The one prominence that stained its cheek, it stained only its cheek. Everything we did in the war we did exclusively in our own name, both good and evil, especially evil. Mr. Jovanovic, any generalization that those who have committed war crimes have done so in your name or my name is very wrong. They did it exclusively in their own name, as well as what I did with honor and honesty. I can tell you that in this society, it has become a general tendency that all wartime military people and war participants are equated with war crimes, which is absolutely wrong. This leads to a catastrophic situation that, on the basis of such assumptions, this country's policy towards us. Mr. Jovanovic, I will present it later in my amendment. We're the only military people with military disabilities who pay for our treatment with our money from the aftermath of the wound. That's what led to that false assumption. War veterans, American, English, French, no matter where they fought, no matter what war it was, are on the pedestal of that society. There's a shoulder to the shoulder with the presidents of the states. The main feature of American presidents is whether they participated in a Vietnam war or not. I ask you once again, not just you, but all the MPs in this House and all the civil servants, not to generalise things, that all the participants of the war were extremely correct and fair, did not embarrass their ancestors, did not embarrass their descendants, and those who committed war crimes should be accountable for these war crimes, to find them guilty and to serve their due punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3558	Thank you, Mr Vasilevich. Mr. Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go, replica, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3559	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not the place where patriotism is measured. I've made it very clear, this is a debate on the budget law, and I've cited why I believe that every dinar is allocated to an army of dinars being spent in a bad way. I said that we, as a society, are very arrogant and irresponsible to ourselves. No one in this country has defended or defended today anything that every decent country appreciates. No one forbids us to celebrate our independence day as it is celebrated by Americans, no one forbids us to have our "tanksday", no one forbids us to remember everything we need to remember. Exceptionally, the responsibility for this oblivion is in the wrong system of values that stems from that policy that cannot be turned behind because it knows what it has left behind. It is true that the people cannot be collectively guilty. It's also true that no army can be collectively guilty, but the first thing every soldier in the army learns is to put a helmet on his head so something doesn't happen to him. The army that agreed to those rules led itself to the position it was in, that it had to be ashamed of being an army, that it had to be silent because others spoke for it and that it had to red in front of those who couldn't help and destroyed their lives. There are thousands of them, and we meet them, and we have to take care of them. It's not some 18-year-old kid who dropped a bomb on his head, it's the ones who put him in that position. This is not the time for this kind of debate. We just vote against this budget, among other things, because those 63 billion are being spent to make no difference. With respect to those who have had the misfortune of having to do a job that they have tied up with life's commitment, which is military work, but without pathetics, without a patsy on their shoulders, without big words, we advocate such an organization of state and society in which the military will definitely not be the most significant segment, will not be neglected, the military will have its own clear role that we will agree on in parliament, and before that with the citizens. All the bad things that happened in the military, among other things, are the consequences of agreeing to military leadership on such rules of conduct. Both police generals and military generals, their bombs fell on the epolates, someone put them in that position, today they're being tried on war crimes charges in The Hague, while the policy that exposed them doesn't think they should bear any kind of responsibility. That's also a serious problem. We must together take care of the settlement of this war legacy, the care of wartime wartime disableds, and all other vulnerable segments of society. Unfortunately, these problems you mention are terrible, we often meet with demands, we ask for help, they can't count on that help if this budget is analysed, and that's what's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3560	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Dusan Bajatovic continues the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3561	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, said no one will report advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure during this week. I had to break it for the simple reason that MP Jovanovic in his presentation that he had just completed several mistakes, least said. I'd like to ask you, when the stenogram is finished, to read the first sentence that started his presentation. He said he believed that every single dollar was allocated to the military in this budget was dumped. It is an insult to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now there's something about the attitudes that were made just now. I'm really sorry someone doesn't want to see anything next to their eyes. You know, there's a disease so a man doesn't see, someone's blind so he doesn't see it, but it's dangerous when a man has eyes, he has vision, and he doesn't see it, he doesn't want to see it. So many books have been published, so many quoted statements by world and white statesmen for these 15, 16, 17 years concerning the former SFRY; these statements clearly show that everything that has been done to the former SFRY was conscious, deliberate and long ago prepared. Don't change the basic thesis and the basic starting points. I will illustrate something only as an example, so that you will be fully aware of what is going on and what is being done by these MPs in the National Assembly with these attitudes. A few days ago, the foreign minister of Italy visited Serbia. He was prime minister in 1999, remember the date of April 19, 1999, when the public in Italy was raised because Aviano was used for attacks against Serbia, etc., when he was asked by journalists on April 19th 1999 what it was, did Italy bear any responsibility, he answered briefly – NATO does not bear any responsibility, we did not start a war, the war started by Serbs, and we became involved the moment we received evidence that 300,000 people were killed. Please, there are some procedures in the Hague tribunal concerning both Kosovo and Metohija. There hasn't been a number since 2000 yet. I'm not going to open a topic for you about some other locations where you bid here... (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. ) Mr. Chairman, Mr. Jovanovic has committed a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I think that you should apply the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and if you do not wish to apply those provisions, I demand that in the day of the vote, MPs declare whether Cedomir Jovanovic violated Article 104's provision when he began his presentation with a sentence that he believes that each dinar has been allocated in the military budget to a dinar.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3562	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr Dusan Bajatovic and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. The Socialist Party of Serbia has four minutes left, Mr. Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3563	It was a little six, Mr. Grouchy, and now it's four. At least don't cut us off. Dear fellow Members, I have indeed come to the floor at one point to talk about the amendment of my distinguished colleague Misa Petronijevic, but I simply wonder if there should be any need to stick to the topic or to run my campaign, as some MPs do, who do not receive diaries only in the Serbian Parliament, but obviously in some other places. So I'm going to try to say in these four minutes a few things that might be interesting to you. As far as I'm concerned, it would be best if the Liberal Democratic Party had proposed to delete a complete item on the financing of the Yugoslav Army, because it's a reform that tends, because if you don't have an item on the military budget, then we don't need to talk about the military. And this is how we made Divisions, and now we're going to make brigades, and from a company of tens, and we're really going to get to the point that the army is a social issue, a certain number of very professional, high-quality, patriotic engineers, soldiers, electronics, economists, chefs, tankers, it doesn't matter who it was. Excuse me, please, is there a country in our environment that doesn't have an army? To ask one principled question that we all need to think about: when is the defense the most expensive? The defense is the most expensive when the other one defends you. If I understood these efforts by gentlemen of the liberal-democratic faction, or party, it would be best if someone else were to defend us, and when we wanted someone else to defend us, who could defend us -- NATO. Then I'm very interested, when we enter NATO, if we enter (I hope the people will have the opportunity to declare it, that it will not be the will of political elites only), will the same story be here for this military budget speaker, when we coordinate the need to obtain new military equipment according to NATO standards, and for our money that our citizens give? If we know that only harmonising the means of the link in the first phase for the infantry units costs over two billion dollars and that it will certainly not be done by the electronics industry from Nis, or any other domestic industry, then the question is whether these 60 billion to maintain the Army of Serbia, and that is little, it is too little... But unfortunately, our society is gone, because our economy is out of business and this is too tense and this is a lot if Serbia wants to reform. He says there is no reform of the Serbian Army. What do you mean, it's gone? Look who our allies are, look at the federal parliament draft defence strategy, look at the strategic reviews. True, future conflicts will not be resolved in global conflicts, but the question is whether Serbia should have an army? You should. And the army, and the police and the security structures. Remember only the Wahhabis, which today say, there are 50,000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina alone. The military can serve in the fight against terrorism. Today, as a danger to which Serbia is exposed, only terrorism is mentioned, and I am not so sure that until the entry into the EU terrorism is the only danger to which Serbia is exposed. Furthermore, as far as court proceedings are concerned, there was no reform. Please, no more military courts. Today it's a practical department in civil courts. After all, let me tell you, if anyone asks you here, I would very much like all the murders, but all the murders, and Paul Bulatovic, and Zoran Todorovic Kundak, and Bosko Perosevic and all the others, including the shooting of Zoran Djindjic in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to see if Bajatovic or Jovanovic were involved or anyone like that. Don't make it so easy... (Chairman: Please, Mr. Bayatovic, time.) If I can get another 30 seconds... Please, there's a lot of doubt in the public. We have agreed as politicians, as responsible, or irresponsible political elites, to divide Serbia's government deeply and politically, which is worst and economically, to 97% of the poor and 3% of the rich. Let's end these political divisions, become a transparent, responsible political, economic and cultural elite that can lead Serbia into reforms. I am sorry that Mr. Minister has no more than 7-8 billion euros, because that is not enough for Serbia's reform. Just take the information that a good number of reform laws passed during the previous government are not applicable or not applicable because of the conflict with many other laws. I would pray that all MPs who go out for this pay phone have a responsibility to those jobs waiting for Serbia. What we're offering here isn't reform. Every dollar invested in the military is a well-invested dinar, if we know what we want. If the goal is to destroy the army, then submit an amendment to which we abolish the full budget item, let's say we don't need an army, that we don't need structures. Don't let us insult those officers. I wore my own uniform. If there had been something during the government of Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica, and if my country had called me to train the army, I would have done the same, no matter what I agree with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3564	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. Just without the hard words and the excitement. Have Mr. Petar Jojic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3565	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that this concern that the parties of the former regime show towards the Serbian Army, because now that's her name, Mr. Bajatovic, and it's the same as it was during those unfortunate 1990s, the concern in which it makes any sense wouldn't have made our army the way it is. That worry, and under that care, the army is gone. As far as I'm concerned, it's a much smaller problem than the fact that a single country is missing, that thousands of lives are gone, that years have been lost and that it's faced us with a time of complete uncertainty. Every dinar in this budget, every dinar of this 63 billion is thrown into a dinar before the Serbian Army and those who ask for that money in its name give us clear proof that they have changed, that they now experience their role in society in a different way, that they appreciate what we as citizens are giving them, and that's the least I mean money, that's what I mean about life. The policy that is being implemented by military means is not a good policy, regardless of whether it's being realized by someone in this country or in any other country. I made it very clear when I said that the devastating situation in which all those parents who gave their children to the armies of Serbia, i.e. the SCG, the SRJ or JNA military, was brought in. This is not the place where we will measure our patriotism, but this is the place where we have to ask the question why in the budget for the Ministry of Defence and the dinar has not been allocated to put an end to that agony that this country has been going through for years, looking for the truth about the murder of the guard in downtown Belgrade. The fact that you're from one party, me from another, that you can say anything about me, that's not the point at all right now. The question is, in 2007, do we have the right to ask people to give us their children if we are not ready to support them in life? There is no army to take lives, but to protect them. We do not respect our officers; but do we not respect our soldiers when we ask that question? Not everyone in that army had the same fate and we know it very well. I don't want to mention names at all and give examples. What is happening to us now is the first budget discussed by the Serbian Parliament. So far, it has been decided without debate, in a parliament today called the House of the National Assembly, which was once the Assembly of Yugoslavia, the SRJ, the state union. We were not involved in these discussions. Now we have the right to something like that. We have the right to ask if the army is ready to change. Not if she's ready to put everything on paper, the paper takes it all. We're full of military reform. We need a different attitude towards life, that's the first step in these reforms. Army, brigade, I'm not talking about it, NATO Pact, it's not the topic we want to talk about today. The army must prove that it has changed by taking responsibility for what to this extent disabling that we are talking about it in such a way today, and that will be told to you by every honest officer and every honest soldier. We feel a commitment to the people who voted for us. Our message to Serbia on January 21st was – make sure that with our 18 policy you have an index, not a front. That should be the first rule of our work here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3566	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bajatovic and Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3567	I have to admit that I was really trying to understand Mr. Jovanovic's attempt to get involved in what he was involved in. (President: Which member, Dushan? It's not the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Gristle, it's the replica. All right, then Article 104(1). Of course, preserving human life is something that people have been leading for decades, hundreds and thousands of years, it's not controversial, Mr. Jovanovic, but it's hardly a war without victims. [[President: You have no right. There's no replica on the replica.]] You didn't listen to me very well. Serbia no longer has any economic, political, military, or any other power to wage any war. It is, among other things, the consequence of your rule. How do you judge a policy? According to her results. I totally understand why you say that politics led in the 1990s wasn't good. I think of it differently or partly differently. It is not disputed either, but I ask you again, Mr Jovanovic, when we enter the NATO Pact, as you wish, and I hope that this will be decided in a referendum, will we discuss these same costs here in the same way? How is someone's life better spent? By defending the interests of the NATO Pact in Afghanistan, Iraq or other parts of the world where human rights are exercised, or might it be more honorable to defend your people, your country, your faith, your history, your tradition, your culture, your rights? Do you think the Americans who have introduced human rights in Kosovo will now return to bomb the Shipars in Kosovo? They will not, although they threaten the rights of Serbs, lead another policy. I didn't see that Bondsteel base was made of soft material, it wasn't built an assembly facility, it was dug in, so they want to stay there. Let them, sir, get to China, don't worry, it would be their goal and China, but it'll be a little harder to go. What's the point of the whole story here? The point of the whole story is that this is insufficient funds for the military, that the military needs reforms, but not reforms that destroy the military, that the military needs to adapt to modern conditions, to see if 20,000 soldiers are enough or perhaps strategic defenses today require something more. Under the Dayton Agreement, Serbia was meant to be a factor of peace and stability in the Balkans, which means the military-political and economic strongest force. Why isn't it like that today? After all, I won't answer again because we promised we wouldn't lead the big controversy, that this could be over today. Please don't forget that for eight years in Serbia, no black-red or party of the former regime has ruled. The parties to the democratic implementation rule. Eight years of government isn't so little, no matter how much damage they've done before. Let's talk about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3568	The word is Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Chairman, said the previous speaker said that there is hardly any war without casualties, but Serbia is the country where you have in the army exactly a dozen victims without war. In these days 42 soldiers have died in less than three years, most under unexplained circumstances, and the matrix responds to the same suicide. Most of these young people come from rural areas, as urban children are mainly dedicated to civilian service of the military, from rural areas where the spirit, the tradition of the Serb soldier and army are instilled in them. I represent the families of five wounded soldiers. You know what's the hardest thing for them? The fact that they can't mention it, because, as you know, the church won't act when it comes to suicide. Imagine the pain of these people, the rekilling of their children, when they bury them without the ashes. That's what's left inexplicable. I guarantee that in almost half of these cases, it's not about suicide. The two guards were first disarmed, as the independent state commission said, and then killed; after the shootings were removed today, they were shot. I can tell you why. Because that's where the Hague defendants were hiding and because they saw one of them and then the veil of secrets... And those who took part in falsifying the truth about the murder of the two guards on Topcider, they took an advance in their careers. Look at those people who claimed what they said before the state commission gave their report. That's why we ask the question. The other day, I met with military analyst Mr. Aleksandar Radic, and he says we have a real military reform ahead for the first time in 60 years, but there's no one here to explain it to us. As Dusko Radovic said, "They won't tell us, they want to surprise us." I guess MPs have the right to know what the military reform means to possibly vote for the military budget. It is a fundamental matter, a fundamental right and a fundamental authority, a fundamental obligation of the executive authority to inform the elected MPs, the national representatives, the most legislative body in this country. But no one answers that question. Those fated generals who have lost all the battles are still glorified, but all the privileges they have won, they've got apartments in "The Flowers" by several acres, and those young educated officers live as tenants in some streets, in some corners, they can't survive with their families. What kind of budget are we talking about? Those who willingly surrendered to God received great money from the tycoon and then closed down as a circle. Then we talk about military reform and then some of them go to The Hague, except the music hasn't played yet, like sending the Legion to prison. During that time, we don't know the names of those guys who flew in on planes to resist NATO armies and gave their lives by believing in some ideals, some false ideals. And those border guards at the carnivals, does anyone know their name? No, I don't. They are not heroes, and those who died at Dragisa Misovic Hospital and all others who died for their wars. They enjoy privileges, and their families can't even build a monument, they can't even give away their loved ones. It's a story about the military, and I'm not talking about that famous Florist, about the Eros satellite, about the lazier around the Pancir affair, now they're after Milet Dragic for some crumbs, and the main ones who participated there are not responsible for anything. So I repeat, it's hard to talk about army reforms when there are more victims in Serbia in the military than if we were, God forbid, in the war.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3570	On article 5, the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is on the run. He was supposed to answer a few questions. First of all, what about the court fees, because he didn't split up, and he didn't give an explanation here. Because workers and legal holders could finance themselves from court fees, but that the government does not put in that leather purse those court fees that are enormously high and that the citizens are paying. Many today, because of high taxis, cannot approach the court to exercise their rights. The minister escapes, doesn't say a word about where the budget's user team is installed. The minister didn't say anything about it, and he should have said where the three million euros our country received for reform of legislation and justice. Who took it, for what purposes did he spend it? Imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Management Service, please, for it is projected 77 million, and you can imagine that 100 tractors could have been bought for farmers and given to them, to provide five and a half thousand pensions, and the Euro Service with 263 million dinars, with that amount could have paid 16 and a half thousand pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, on Article 5, section 5, Chapter 5.8 of the 330 Serbian Radical Party's Radical Party has tabled this amendment with the view that parallel judicial authorities should not be formed and set up, as is the case with the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes. Because in our Serbia, in our judicial system, there are: Constitutional Court, although no Supreme Court is formed, administrative courts, appeals courts, State Greater Prosecutors, High Council of the judiciary, Higher Commercial Court, Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, Republic Public Attorney's Office, District Courts, Commercial Courts, Municipal Courts, District Public Prosecutor's Office, Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, Greater for Violations and Municipal Crimes Authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, it was formed by a dictate from abroad, by NATO troops who demanded and demanded that only Serbs in Serbia be tried. That's why they started this prosecution. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party believes the institution should be abolished and left to regular and public prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, who is being tried in The Hague, whom are these Serbian assistants and this institution, the self-called institution, which is the extended right hand of the UN tribunal? When it comes to the illegal Hague tribunal and prosecutor, founded by the US and NATO members, through the Security Council and the United Nations, as an executive body, and not established by the General Assembly, the issue of the legitimacy and legality of the UN tribunal is raised. The charges brought against our citizens, mostly against the highest military-political leadership, are not based on legally valid evidence. The fines imposed on Serbs are Draconian, the penalty for Milan Martic has been imposed for 35 years, testifying that the prosecution criteria and in that court do not exist for all accused alike, but that Serbs are given the highest sentences, even for what they did not do. Milan Martic was fined only because he defended his people as a Serb against Ustasha criminals, what the public and the world knows. I would also like to remind you that Momcila Krajisnik was sentenced to prison for a quarter century, without any evidence that he committed any crime or crime. The new victim of The Hague tribunal is General Zdravko Tolimir, who was kidnapped in Serbia in a savage and barbaric manner, handed over to Republika Srpska, and then delivered to The Hague's body bag. As the People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party, I believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia must urgently determine and refer to The Hague tribunal a team of excellent doctors who will conduct a medical examination of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zdravko Tolimir, whose health is extremely critical and who is fighting for life in the Hague dungeon without adequate treatment. The Serbian government knew of this state of health and is therefore responsible for taking the necessary measures to protect General Tolimir's life in a concrete case. I am personally aware, ladies and gentlemen, that no government has provided legal or medical assistance to citizens in The Hague since October 2000. I have knowledge that General Zdravko Tolimir is trying to appoint a counsel under official duty, a man who will co-operate with the UN prosecutor's office, because all those he defended have passed through the maximum sentences. As a longtime lawyer and lawyer, and I have studied comparatively both continental law and American law, I am aware that all states provide legal and other protection to their citizens. As you can see, the Serbian government did not lift a finger to protect a Serb from that name, except by delivering an anti-constitutional and against the law. This is also confirmed by numerous charges brought against Serbs. One of such shameful, nothing-supported, was raised against the professors of Dr Vojislav Seselj. Dr. Vojislav Seselj's professor, this illegal so-called The UN tribunal's prosecutor is accusing mainly of giving fire-speaks they called hate speech. The chief indictment, ladies and gentlemen of Serbian citizens, by the Hague prosecutor was brought against Serbs. As a rule, the prosecution puts aside Muslims, Croats and Shiparian terrorists. In the most difficult position, the prosecutor brings members of the Serbian nation without having such a relationship with Croats, Muslims and Shiptarian terrorists. Because no one from the highest state, military and political leadership has been charged in these countries. I will set an example of the rape of Serbs in the Celebici camp by Muslims. Self-prosecution prosecutor Carla del Ponte has qualified the criminal act as a violation of the customs of war, not rape, which she otherwise did and spells when the alleged perpetrator is Serbian. According to indictees of crimes against humanity, such accession by the Hague prosecutor has been present since the very beginning of the tribunal's work. Thus, from the first 18 indictments 17 apply to Serbs and only one to Muslims. The tribunal's intention to judge Serbs has also shown by evicting (see, this is a very important fact) the crimes against peace from the International Tribunal's Statute for the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It is symptomatic that crimes against peace were one of the three types of crimes foreseen in the Statute of the International Military Court for the trial in Nuremberg. Although the Statute of the International Tribunal of the Military Court of the United Nations General Assembly has been confirmed as a source of law, the erasure has been carried out with the aim of preparing, preparing and implementing the collapse of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia... This was not the way those who applied Hamurabi’s code, which had a particularly classy character, had primarily protected and committed the self - called UN war crimes tribunal. What did Professor Vojislav Seselj do? Vojislav Seselj has committed no crime or crime. There's no evidence of that, so they've been holding him in custody for five years. Seselj is the most representative, ladies and gentlemen, living representative of the Serbian people and therefore the name of Prof. Vojislav Seselj will be entered in the history of the Serbian people in gold letters. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Vojislav Seselj is deeply respected and appreciated in the Serbian people, with his large and deserved Serbian Radical Party. According to Professor Vojislav Seselj in The Hague Kazamat, in that dungeon two with two, all sanctions of terror are applied, except for the beating. There is no physical penalty provided for in the statutes, nor is it provided for in our legislation, although in Serbia the body punishment was abolished in 1873. The self-proclaimed Hague tribunal heads up with the famous infamous Carla del Ponte, Serbia's largest Serb, recently to be held in Serbia, with all state honours, whose visit had been prepared for a month, provided by strong military and police forces. She visited almost all protected objects of vital and security importance. The highest executives of this country kneeled during her visit. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you say? What do you say about politics like this, about occupiers and criminals? Let's just think of Jasenovac, then the barbecue worked overtime, and there were cases of people throwing at him and living people. Imagine what a terrible barbecue, what a terrible crime, on which tens of thousands of Serb living bodies were thrown. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS feels that the defence of the country deserves a first-rate function, and what we're talking about tonight is how much the military budget was supposed to be... I'll remind you, the military budget is 62 billion dinars, and the government of the Republic of Serbia predicted 42 billion dinars for its special services. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in the world that the defense of the country and its ability is based on three things. What are three things? Money, money and money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3572	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3573	In order to better understand the essence of this amendment, it is based on the law passed in 2003, which concerns the war crimes prosecutor's office, and was then unconstitutional and certainly still represents an unconstitutional law today. Mr. Jojic explained the organisation of the courts and the organisation of the prosecutions acting before a particular court. For this prosecutor's treatment, there is essentially no court. That's a basic remark. The second objection regarding this division, we now move on to that financial part and immediately to clarify one thing – the law exists, and there is also a commitment, it is undeniable, and we argue that the law is unconstitutional and we insist that this law be put out of force in the assembly procedure and that it has in mind and that this is planned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since the budget is one draft document. So, it's not just about making commitments, it's about the future commitments that are planned this year, so in that sense, we plan to remove this commitment. Furthermore, I must draw attention that this prosecution will spend 72 million dinars and that the prosecution has a total of 32 employees, or 23, even less. If you make a comparison with other beneficiaries of the budget that have approximately the same number of employees, you will see that the principle of distribution, criteria and criteria used by the Government of the Republic of Serbia was wrong when drawing up the draft budget, and that some great advantage is given to this prosecutor's office. This prosecution belongs to a group of those Thompson state bodies. So, between Vojislav Vukkovic and the one who sang almost in Zagreb, there is no difference, there is in principle no difference. So that some big mentalists wouldn't realize that someone here now advocates not being prosecuted for war crimes, no, we're about to pursue war crimes in front of our courts, our bodies, but if a special prosecutor for war crimes is to advise Sam Nazaro, legal adviser to the American embassy, if that prosecutor gives himself the right to conclude international contracts, agreements, agreements, no ratifications in the National Assembly, if he can say in his public appearances that he is a god and a beating, that he is talking to three ambassadors daily, then I ask whether he as a civil servant has that amount of independence and independence that is necessary for his basic function. It's all abused here. The basic feature that allowed this Vuckovic to be who he is is close to the Democratic Party, not as close to the party as he is with Boris Tadic. Let's see how The Hague applied rule 11 bis of the Code of Procedure and Evidence. So, a single Serb is here to be tried without telling you how many Croats Croatia is to be tried, how many Muslims from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Another big grudge to the legislator of this law. You stated there that it was the prosecutor's jurisdiction to prosecute for criminal acts under the Criminal Code, according to the UN tribunal's statute. He is not in charge of pursuing the provisions of the UN tribunal's statutes. He must not apply those provisions and the problem arises, which they would now want through this prosecutor to desrbification in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3574	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 12 amendments were submitted by MP Borka Vukic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the government has not accepted it. Here you go, Mrs. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3575	The Socialist Party of Serbia has estimated that the opportunity to come up with an amendment that is very current today is a diaspora. The Socialist Party of Serbia has had good co-operation with the diaspora for more than 15 years. I don't see that we're going to have a big difference as to this problem that has arisen and today is an opportunity to, when we're considering this budget law, when we've already put it on the agenda, and I have a certain blame as it is said, talk about it, because it's a very big question. I'm just gonna say that the moment is about that, and that's what the Diaspora Ministry and the Chamber know, which these days, in two or three days, is about 400, and I've already met them, our diaspora representatives from all five continents, to so on. Vidovdan's days of diaspora. On these Vidovdan days, this issue which is subject to the SPS amendment is the main issue that comes to the agenda. I will now, given that you are all in a hurry to go to the game, still read the essence of this amendment. On the basis of Articles 145 and 163. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, I submit the following amendment: "In Article 5. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, in particular, in section 12 - Ministry of Finance, function 160 - general public services which are not classified elsewhere, economic classification of 499 - funds of the reserve, column 6, amounting to 2,015.830,000, the words "this appropriation includes funds intended for a standing reserve of 15,830,000 dinars and funds of the current budget reserve of 2000.000,000 dinars" are replaced by the words "this appropriation covers funds intended for a standing reserve of 15,830,000 dinars and the funds of the current budget reserve of 1,741,578,116 dinars, and the funds of 258,884 dinars are intended to settle the government's obligations towards the net trust of the Bank of the budget for the mother - the basis of the January 5,58, 2005. Explanation: The government of the Republic of Serbia in January 2002, when four major banks closed, concluded 05, number 55-148/2002, which arranged the way funds were paid to depositors of these banks, including Belgrade bank depositors AD Belgrade. According to this conclusion, the government has pledged that the 2002 budget from the regular budget position it has called -- the bank restructuring funds, as it says in the budget, as well as in the proposal for the final budget account for 2002, by page 10, in the work of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, under the regular number of 202, that a total of 4.13 billion dinars were planned and spent in a total number of 9.887.400,000 dinars. The government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance in charge of these conclusions, requested that all depositors bring evidence of the existence of deposits in bank accounts of banks and that the PDO issue written confirmation, as well as that the depositors sign a contract that these claims in the banks closed give to the Republic of Serbia, in order to pay them the amount from the certificate, provided that they are net trusts, which means they owe nothing to the bank and that they do not owe anything on the basis of taxing some other liabilities. The finance ministry, according to the above conclusion, is paying off for legal persons -- the net creditors of banks, who contracted the request to the Republic of Serbia. This procedure for payment of outstanding claims has been made for all the depositors of these banks if they are net creditors. During 1999 and 2000, Serbian dispersion collected about 13 million German marks, or 6.5m euros. If the setome adds 100,000 to our diplomatic representations, it is close to sevenm euros. The money was intended to restore and build land and humanitarian aid. Following the decision of 300 delegates from all five continents, I say, our foreign elites, a session was held from August 3rd to August 5th 1999, and a Diaspora Fund for the Matrix was established, on which the funds were deposited at Belgrade's AD Bank of Belgrade. About half of the funds collected were invested during 1999 and 2000 for the restoration of infrastructure facilities destroyed during the NATO aggression, the most significant: the Varadin debt bridge in the Danube, the bridge via Velika Morava near Varvarin, the bridge on the West Morava near Kruševac, the barracks VJ, about 100km of roads, maternity sites, two hospitals, two schools, four monasterys and others. I must underline that our diaspora from Europe has invested 90% in the participation of these funds. Very small stakes are from America, Canada and other countries. So, within this capital base, Europe had 90%. The Fund has been operating through its foreign and dinar account at the Belgrade Bank, and, of course, orderly accounting has been conducted on business. Evidence that the country's funds have been spent on rebuilding is in the report submitted in the final budget account for 2000 and can be seen in Annex 7 to the report on the use of the country's recovery funds for 2000, where, among other things, revenue sources for the reconstruction of the country and donations of legal and physical persons are listed on page 2 of this report and data on the completed business on the country's renewal. I also invite Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who holds the presidency today to confirm if this is the case. (President: That's right, Mrs. Wolf. ) The second half of the funds amounting to 3.128,720,12 euros, without interest, was first blocked because it was not allowed to be paid out of the bank's account, and by entering into bankruptcy of the Belgrade Bank of the Diaspora for the queen fully respected all procedures for the payment of deposits by the Ministry of Finance. Confirmations on the state of funds in the dinar account were made, there were 2,487,885.19 dinars and at the foreign exchange account 3.5m euros, evidence that the Fund owes nothing to the bank, nor on the basis of taxes, the contract was signed. The finance ministry, then Minister Djelic, was not responding at all, nor was it written about this request, and other depositors of the same statute were properly paid off in total amounts. There was no response to all the emergency and demands. Long correspondence for the use of these funds and for the continuation of the Fund's work, which was the investment fund and the humanitarian fund, there was no response. During the last two or three years, when the Ministry of Diaspora was formed, a long correspondence was made with new Minister Dinkic, and with all efforts by the minister of diaspora, Mr Vukcevic, to resolve the problem, never to this day has any answer been received. In seeking a solution to his request, the Fund was forced to file a claim against the Trade Court for bankruptcy claims, which, of course, was fully recognised by the court. The finance ministry, instead of ashamed of not fulfilling its commitment, which the government has given it, has writtenly informed the diaspora ministry that the trial is under way. It is skillful, and several times, to avoid an answer which is the only reason that this payment, quite in line with the government's conclusions, is not being carried out. So the diaspora Fund's work for the queen was completely suspended. At the time, Minister Dinkic failed, so he cancelled meetings on this topic. All three prime ministers were urged several times and the diaspora minister proposed very reasonable and possible solutions to these issues but, unfortunately, so far, nothing has been resolved and no answer has been given as a valid reason why this is not possible and which regulation prohibits it. The foreign exchange claim in total in dinar equivalent since 17.6.2007, meaning when it was supposed to be our Finance Committee, according to course 81.8015, was 255.933.999 dinars, which is even less and about 35% loses the Diaspora Fund at this time. In addition to the funds mentioned, which have since 2000 been significantly impaired because they were on the foreign exchange sign and in more currencies, and the payment has been in dinars because it was only possible from the budget, as well as for everyone else. The Fund's administration also addressed then ministers, Mr Goran Svilanovic, Mr Vuk Draskovic, Parliament Speaker Predrag Markovic, Mr Miroljub Labus, Prime Minister, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, both of them or three of the governors and many others. The Fund's management wants the problem to be resolved on mutual satisfaction and there is no need for judicial and other proceedings to be initiated. In today's conditions when the diaspora plays a significant role in us, when it makes a major contribution to our foreign exchange reserves, when it participates in payment traffic quite significantly, when it is not only the giver of specific specific transactions, investment projects, it has limited its activity due to this unfair and harmful government procedure by the means it has committed. The seven assemblies I attended, which means all seven diaspora parliaments, raised these questions and received some powers. There's no answer until today. So, one fund that was formed in 1999 cannot be revived, and we are looking for an investment fund, we need investment funds, development banks, because there is no development, no employment, no new production without these investments. The diaspora is, in their opinion, and in our opinion, limited. I was very surprised to hear that the negative decision of our government's telephone session in relation to this amendment, especially because our Legislator's Committee has given a legal basis for this transaction, that it is entirely on the right. Secondly, our Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia has made a very positive political decision, which has been mentioned repeatedly that it does not exist. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I, indeed after years of practice in such jobs in the country, and even in the world, do not understand that you and the Serbian Government were able to accept and send such answers and reasons for not accepting a very serious and important arrangement in Serbia. By referring to the technical document in your reply, the truth important to the budget, the classification and methodology rule could never be a legal and real reason, especially the dam that the Government can't accept this amendment. What would the Government do by accepting this amendment and what regulation would violate, what damage would it do? So if the government is so principled and holds on to legalism, then you haven't even given it an article 48. The budget system law, which, you will allow me, is still more important than the Contima Regulation, which says that part of the planned income is not allocated within the budget. I'm sorry, but I'd have to say that the responsibility in this assembly is great, the government's decision is made, the conclusion exists. The late prime minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, was very insistent because he knew what diaspora meant, knew what could be done not only on the material side, but what could be done by lobbying. This diaspora is a great support for us in our transition, and I believe that for this proposal and amendment, our minister should be more advocated by the government, because he will have to go out in two or three days before this large assembly in the diaspora organised by the Ministry of Diaspora, which means part of the government, and I cannot believe that the young minister voted for this response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3576	I am convinced that the minister and the entire assembly will support this amendment. I apologize to Mrs. Verica for discussing here, there's no one to replace me. I have a replica, so I say. Please, Mr. Minister, this is a real amendment... Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr Krasic, and Mr Vlahovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3577	I want to take advantage of Mr. Minister's presence, I think it's Article 226, to give me one additional piece of information concerning the amendment submitted by Mrs. Vukic. I am fully aware of the facts, and I am sure that there was indeed a telephone session of the government that adopted these rejections, mostly the amendment, right, so I want you, Mr. Minister, to tell me personally whether it is really under the Standard and Classification Framework Regulation and the final plan for the budget system that these 258 million and 421 dinars cannot be classified from the current budget reserve, which is worth only two billion... I'm absolutely sure I've consulted people, and you've been distracted by Mrs. Vukic, that if you want this as a proposal, this could be included either under the current reserve item, to indicate that the current reserve will pay off and this budget cost; or, if you want to invest Mrs. Vucic's experience, which is a good banker, a good financial expert, and on the other hand, the experience that she has diaspora, that she's very often cheated here, being cheated, giving money, it doesn't matter what authority she was, whether she's old, new or this latest... Mr. Vlahovicu, you did not rule the most sacredly, not now, but rather the fact that the diaspora has often been deceived here, that this is not about excessively large funds; it is about this kind of budget, that we understand each other, but if there is a good will we need to give the people who should certainly come here to invest. Here, says Mrs. Borka Vukic, there will be a council. Therefore, I think that if not under the current budget reserve, you could put this under some economically unclassified item in the budget. I don't want to tell you where, but I'm sure if there is a good political will and a good political assessment, these 258 million dinars could become an integral part of the budget on the basis of the proposal. Please really appreciate Mrs. Borka Vukic's experience and the need for good co-operation with many times-deceived diaspora and to do this job together. If nothing else, you have a moral debt to the government in 2002; at the time the government's decision was made, it was still chaired by Zoran Djindjic. I think it would be good for this amendment to be adopted or for you to find an opportunity to include this, if possible, given that it is an extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3578	Thank you, Dushan. Mr. Krasic has a word for the amendment, so Mr. Vlahovic. Here you go, Mrs. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3579	I forgot one big thing I prepared for Mr. Secretary, with the best desire to have this 30-page kit that applies to this subject, and I think it'll be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3580	Thank you, Borka. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3581	The amendment covers a problem dating back to the time the DOS violently kidnapped power in Serbia. Mrs. Borka Vukic has the need to describe in her chosen words the condition that occurred. It's a classic kidnapping. The collateral damage to Dinkic and Labus's idea of how to destroy domestic banking is also entirely legal claims from this fund. But what we need to worry about is the government's answer. You see, it is said very briefly that the amendment is being rejected for the reason that the economic classification of the reserve's assets is expected to be set in value, and now it is reportedly calling for some continuum plan. Based on what you've written here, I can challenge any payment from the funds of the current budget reserve, anyone. What the prosecution, or government in its response, did not say clearly, but what can be assumed is that they do not dispute the Fund's claim. The search exists. Is there a government obligation to pay? There is. There's a conclusion. Is that a commitment? Yes, it is. This government doesn't want to meet its commitment. I don't want to go into those stories about bankruptcy, those famous Labus and Dinkic experts that broke up through the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks of our Banks, etc. I won't, I'll let you go. An integral part of the vote on the budget law may also be the conclusion that the Government is required to pay off this amount from funds to the reserve. Why won't the government do it? The government will not because the agency is financed by interest on the basis of these funds by someone's 2002 election campaign. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, using the right of Article 226, I request a notice and an explanation from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia where these funds, as they disappeared, whether it was any interest, whose election campaign was financed by these funds, why these funds are not being returned, whether it was informed of this regulation that it was a problem not to accept this amendment. All this has to be explained before we vote on this draft budget law, so we know what it's all about. The diaspora has allocated some funds, made its own fund; as you can see, the funds are primarily intended for some general needs. The funds are allocated for general needs. The general need is not the election campaign of Miroljub Labus. You see... And you know, Mr. Vlahovic, where the money went. But I also call on this UBPOK, freed from the part that holds control of Mladjan Dinkic... You don't know there's one part there that Mladjan Dinkic keeps, where he's tasked with listening to the conversations of his friends' wives. Very funny. Just smile. You know everything. Well, it's even known when two ladies go to the Serbs to recruit a DSS member to leave the DSS and move on to G17 plus. That G17 plus will bring down this government again, you know. I'm warning you in time. I tell you everything in time what's going to happen. I am the happiest when you laugh about such serious issues, because then you send a message to voters and then the voters say this - the man tells them a serious story, and they laugh; why they laugh, means there's a reason. You don't know about the pains of the citizens, you don't care. You took the diaspora's money. How? Based on the bankruptcy. And why is the bankruptcy open? There is much more to ask whether Mladjan Dinkic, his manners have now been taken over by Radovan Jelasic, whether they respect this country. They do not execute any decision of the court. What court decision did they execute? So there's someone above the law here. Who is it that's above the law? He's in the government of the Republic of Serbia. All this must be suffered by Vojislav Kostunica. Why? Because some major force pushed Mladjan Dinkic into government. (President: Please hold your peace.) ) Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since the reconstruction of the country was also an integral part of that package and the purpose of these funds, I know you know that well, see who prevented the restoration of the country. People raised money abroad to help their country, however, it turns out they helped DOS. DOS has taken where they're coming from. That's why I remind you of what I said a few days ago. Keep an eye on who's in the DOS coalition. The road where it ends in that co-habitation, the DOS coalition is recognizable. It usually ends up in CZ. They give up the coalition partner in no time. Look what they're capable of doing for money. Now the rule doesn't allow, now the conclusion doesn't recognise its own, the conclusion of its government, no, it's not being admitted. Now let me start with some general principle; well, these are the funds that people from abroad invested in rebuilding the country. That diaspora has the right to claim. It's their means. You don't respect that. Let me remind you, it's worse than confiscation. There's some kind of guilt in confiscation. You didn't even ask for guilt here. Or you assumed that diaspora at the time when you were the opposition was raising money, so you punished them. You're even lustrating the diaspora. You have expanded the territory in which you apply a law that is not applied in Serbia. You lustrate all those who love their country. This withdrawal of money was a desrbification function, which is why there's DOS in any aggregate state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3582	Thank you very much. The word is Alexander Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the funds of the current reserve are intended for emergency situations, which happen every year in one country. We had a flood last year, we had a few other extreme situations that couldn't be predicted by the budget. That is why it is necessary for the budget to have sufficient resources, in order for the government to intervene and address the consequences resulting from a natural disaster or other reasons. I believe that the current reserve of two billion is actually the lower limit that can be accepted within the budget, because it is only 0.33% of the total budget, and that it would be really very dangerous to further reduce the current reserve foreseen by the budget. In this regard, I do not wish for any moment in any way to undo the reasons motivated by Mrs. Vukic, who has submitted this amendment, which is to pay off the obligation to the diaspora fund. That obligation was made before 2000. The fact is that the obligation is registered in the bankruptcy procedure of four large banks. No one contests it, or contests the Trade Court, or contests the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a commitment that would be settled in the ordinary procedure through the completion of the bankruptcy of four major banks. Appreciateing the need to settle the obligation faster, such as, among other things, reconciled and other obligations towards natural persons, the government did reach a conclusion in 2002, but simply there was no mechanism for the conclusion to be realised. I believe that no one here in the hall should suspect that this government, as was the previous, or first government of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, is ready to settle all previous commitments. I remind you that the amount of foreign debt in 2000 was over 18 billion euros, that today foreign debt is 9.4 billion euros. So the foreign debt is down by half. I would remind you that in 2001, an old foreign savings payment commitment, which was at the time 4 billion 350m euros, was made, that more than a billion euros have been paid in the past six years and that there are about 3 billion euros left to be paid according to the defined dynamics of the law. By the way, the state has issued records of values that are being changed; who wants to get to their foreign exchange savings early to a particular discount can sell bonds and thus obtain money. I will remind you that the total debt to pensioners was more than 500m euros, that 400m euros were paid, especially in the period until 2004, and that the debt today amounts to only 100m euros, which will be paid in the next period. I will also remind you of the loan for Serbia, which many have forgotten, which was announced in 1989, where the money was also collected from the diaspora, of course the local population, from the population living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Funding totalling 50m euros has been raised. It was a total commitment inherited by the Serbian state in early 2001. More than 25m euros have been paid so far, and there is one clear dynamic. Even obligations were paid where the state was not guaranteed, such as savings obligations made in two private banks, in the popular name of Jezda and in Dafina, therefore, in phantom pyramid banks, which was an invention invented in the early 1990s and operated until 1993. The commitments were over 550m euros and the state's commitments took over to pay off. Therefore, my conclusion is that no one in this National Assembly should doubt the government's intentions, the political coalition that is more or less in power than in 2000, when it comes to paying off all the obligations that have been inherited. In this regard, neither this government nor the previous government, nor this political coalition, nor the DOS political coalition since 2001 have ever made a difference whether these commitments occurred when DOS parties were in opposition. It's simply respect for the state, respect for the state's obligations that must be paid off. I propose that the government determines the need to make a speedy payment to the diaspora fund, which was later created by joining individual creditors, not at the time when the money was paid, that the government take this request into account and prepare the proposal together with the 2008 budget and that the commitment is definitely settled, because it is three million euros. It would be very dangerous to further reduce the resources of the current reserve. In this year, Serbia expects some other political decisions. It is certain that these funds, among other things, will be used for that. Once again, no one should suspect, nor has a single hour of authority since 2000 given any evidence of such suspicion that all inherited obligations will not be met. All inherited obligations will be settled, even those for which the state is not guaranteed. The evidence is that today we are a country whose total debt amounts to about 26% of the total social gross product. You could read yesterday, it was news that Croatia has four times the external debt compared to Serbia, and Croatia does not have four times the social gross product. Therefore, if other countries are seen in the environment, the amount of debt is far higher than in Serbia. Therefore, I am sure that the government will liquidate the budget for 2008 and this obligation by paying off the bankruptcy procedure that exists for the bankruptcy of four large banks, to the joy of those who believed the country in 1990. This country will know this debt to settle, and I'm sure it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3584	Thank you, Mr. Vlahovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3585	Thank you, Mr. Mrkonjic, I went out on behalf of the parliamentary group to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure - a misreading. Mr. Vlahovic, excuse me, are you the minister we don't know about? This was a matter addressed to the government, not to you. You are in this case an authorised representative of the Democratic Party. The minister is expected to come out and tell us what you said, without these political incursions and malicious interpretations. Don't convince us now, it's not a relationship to the diaspora - we'd be back, we'd be back. You know, like Jackna, if you'd called yesterday, then that'd be fine. When MPs propose how to resolve the issue, then they can't. When they don't propose - which you didn't suggest. When they propose - it can't, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, well, it can't, it's not legal. What you're not saying is, we're not interested in that item, we're not interested in that amendment, we don't want to respect the reasons that are presented, we don't want to, and we could have wanted to. There's a government conclusion. Mrs. Borke's amendment is very clear. You know how much money it is, you know where it's spent, it's known that this government has taken over nicely. But the logical question arises -- if that government in 2002, democratically, took over some obligation or at least wanted or had a relationship with the diaspora, now 2007, there were still governments where your members were Prime Ministers, or this other one, also, which we have now supported, is the logical thing -- either you want or you don't want to solve the problem. If you want, there's a way to get rid of it. If you don't want to, you're free of this story. We've got a negative response from the government to this amendment. You mentioned a dozen things that have nothing to do with this amendment. Excuse me, you're the one who talked about things that weren't the subject of the amendment. You've been someone who talks like a minister in the government, so you explain to us - we've settled our obligations, we're this... Then why don't you tell us how you privatized, why don't you tell us how you sold the Sartid, why don't you tell us where $15 million is, which you don't tell us, and tell us -- we can't pay you back, we've made some commitments to another, but we're not interested in you. Why don't you tell me you sold 2,000 companies for two billion? Why don't you tell us? In this case, you are only the authorised representative of one party, the minister is the one who needs to come out and say why the government refused, according to us, a very meaningful amendment. The government thus shows a relationship to the diaspora. No matter how hard you try, this is a relationship to the diaspora and you're free of all the stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3586	Thank you, Mr. Beard. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rajko Baralic. But I realized the Democrats would vote for Borkin's amendment. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3587	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen, the key question here is how is it possible for three governments not to implement one conclusion in their lives. Imagine if in the National Assembly, which ratifys different contracts on international loans taken by local self-government, public enterprises or the state itself, when the government changes, came and said here -- the dots don't apply what this parliament has ratified, we're going to start over. So either the government government or not. It would be nice, although there's nothing out of the promise, if the minister really said - okay, it can't, it's a problem. And I also think that the two-billion-dollar budget reserve for a state like ours is critical, that it should be bigger if it can, but that's not a good explanation for what we're looking for here. We had a promise here, for example. says Finance Minister Dinkic - I didn't know there was a regional water system Rzav, for the first time I hear in my life, but when we adopt the next budget I will suggest that this is financed from the budget, so the government changes, so what the minister said is no longer valid. It's so not normal and it's not fair. So there's a 2002 government conclusion here. After that, another government came and now another government. The question is whether or not we're gonna get this money back and there's no next question. Will we or won't we? If we're going to say we will, this is dynamics, and this is election. We are our own to make such a decision. The National Parliament, the National Assembly, can do anything. He can do anything in accordance with the Constitution. As many as two days ago, I suggested introducing a way of charging the use of natural factor in Serbia. Those who sell water, who take laporac, who sell limestone, 70-80m euros lies there, have no one to pick up. We will vote to pass the law, and you say -- here, we will give these seven million euros or as much as it is for the diaspora. So, sources exist. There are no disputed sources here, there is a controversial political decision, which may be difficult for you and we understand that, but you gave the diaspora the right to vote, but you took her money, and the right to vote and money, all in one place. Then it's the power you represented yourself in the election campaign. So we're embarrassing ourselves like a queen. You have here 14 or 15 decisions of the Assembly Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, who are praying, suggesting and asking for this issue to be resolved. It's not about something someone doesn't understand, it's just about whether or not someone can take it politically at the moment. So say - at this point we can't take it politically, and we'll understand it. So in September, or October, we will discuss the 2008 budget. Everything we said today will be repeated again and there will be no dilemma. That's less than 100 days. So, give me your word, keep your word, here on behalf of the diaspora we'll apologize. So it's not a problem. We're handling it in January of the month, but we need to know and get out in front of these people who are coming these days, which Mrs. Vucic said, and say, we're going to do this from January 1st. And that's a good answer, but he must be of the highest place and we must trust what the ministers say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3588	Thank you, Baralic. I apologize to Mr. Cvetkovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister. The man came forward ten minutes ago, but in the heat of this discussion, I'm...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see you keep calling me to say something, but you're not giving me a word. The essence of this problem is basically that our reserve of two billion is simply such that it does not allow for further reduction. The $260 million demand represents 14-15% of the reserve, and it just can't hold this budget. In that sense, the answer not to accept the amendment is not the answer that it is not legally possible. So he's legally possible, you can cut the reserve and he's right on balance. Here's the problem that we don't have, in this sense, the financial capacity to endure it, first of all, for the reason that this amendment and this problem, at least as far as I'm concerned, the Ministry of Finance, has come out in the last few days. I think that this problem is not only insecure, it's very easy to solve, so it could even be resolved in the context of this not affecting the deficit. It's a bit of an expert story now, but this is about a single claim that has its own bank account and its purchase by the state basically wouldn't go to budget cost, but it would go to what's called purchasing financial assets, so we wouldn't have to, I see it that way now. Such an amendment has not been given and we cannot resolve this amendment any other way. For that reason, I can say two sentences that I think are relevant. By rejecting this amendment from the government, no signal has been sent that the government refuses to exist as a problem of the state and solve it. That's one. Two, we will immediately after we adopt the budget and deal seriously with this problem, and it is my firm belief that in the next few months it will be resolved to the joint satisfaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3590	Anybody else answer for a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3591	I haven't disbanded myself, Mr. Shami, you've been my president, and it's very good, in the Federal Assembly, but I just want to valorize Mrs. Vukic's initiative, convinced that the best argument of this budget is really 131 MPs, if it's there, you'll vote for it. Therefore, it is easy for you to vote this out, but I would ask, even if it was internal between us, Mr. Minister, to report our parliamentary group on the way (and to inform us in writing, if possible, in the coming days, if you can't accept this) how possible, how do you think to solve this problem and when. It's possible as you said, but I'd really like you to reconsider until the end of the vote, I don't know if it's possible for you to try to change some of the economically unclassified things or something like that here to find a solution. If not, then report to us in writing, the SPS parliamentary group, is it possible during this year, in which way and until this problem is solved, and we would be grateful to you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3592	On Article 5, Section 12, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Pastor Balint. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Laslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3593	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the 2007 draft budget law for us represents a continuation of the government's ignoring relationship and the ruling coalition towards national minorities. After the government's programme was exposed on May 15th, of course, this was not unexpected. When we discussed the Ministry Law on the necessity of forming a Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, then we were told that each ministry would deal with the problems of national minorities. The result of this concern about minority rights, according to us, is this draft budget. Aware of the fact that this draft budget cannot be improved by amendments, we have submitted an amendment to the draft budget, which proposes to increase the grant of national minority councils from 63 million dinars to 163 million dinars, in line with the requirements of all formed national councils in the Republic of Serbia. Acceptance or refusal of this amendment will be a clear signal to national minorities whether the government or the ruling majority still wants to continue with this policy of demeaning national minorities or to go some other way. The explanation proposed to reject amendments by the government is, in my opinion, extremely cynical. On the one hand, the reason why this amendment is proposed is to propose an increase in national council funding by as much as 2.6 times the amount proposed. I don't know if the government was able to look into the needs of national councils at yesterday's phone session. If she did it, then I think the government is very effective, but I doubt it. On the other hand, if I read the government's argument, then I have to conclude that the government completely misunderstood the reasoning that we gave along with the amendment, an explanation that normally contains five points, and the government is only dealing with one point of that argument and it's completely wrong. This argument states that the various ministries provide for funding for educational, cultural, media and other institutions of national minorities and that for this reason it is not necessary to increase the amount given to national councils. If you read the explanation of the amendments, then it is clear that we are not looking for this increase for reasons that there are no means for national minorities in various ministries, but for the reason that the Government has since 2002, when the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was adopted, has not fulfilled its obligation and has not formed a fund for national minorities under that law. There is simply no fund from which various activities from these areas would be financed. On the third hand, I find it very indicative that this argument states that the Ministry of Diaspora defines funds for the activities of national minorities. I don't know if that means the government thinks the national minorities living in Serbia are diaspora. I don't think that's the case right now, and I hope it doesn't happen in the future. A logical question arises that members of the DS parliamentary club belonging to national minorities on the one hand, and on the other hand, members of their communities will explain that national councils will be subject to a realistic reduction of funds during the government's mandate, in which the Ministry of Finance is run by the Democratic Party, compared to the period when the government was supported by the Socialist Party of Serbia. In the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the presidents of minority parties, even the president of a national council, are sitting; how will she or how will they explain to members of their communities, as well as to members of their national councils, that this budget continues to demean these institutions? Of course, I am asking Mr Tamash Tot, who is unfortunately not in the hall right now, a member of my national community, how will he be able to vote for this budget that is contrary to the interests of the Hungarian community and how will he not support the amendment that is in the interest of the Hungarian community, how will he explain it to himself and members of the Hungarian community in Serbia? Once again, I call upon all MPs, above all those parties who, at least on paper in their programmes, advocate the rights of national minorities to show that and in part, by adopting this amendment. At the very end, if the finance minister now comes out for a pay phone and says that the budget rebalance or in any other way in any subsequent period this problem will solve, then I would like to say in advance that this is unacceptable for us because in the last four or five years we have heard various and above all empty promises, so it is only acceptable for us to accept this amendment and to send, at least in this way, a positive signal to national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3594	According to the amendment, the People's MP Gojko Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3595	Gentlemen, it is a good thing that Mrkonjić went a little bit to rest, since we saw that from the leadership of the Assembly he started ratting out messengers who were subfling out to whom anything from the bench; behold, now he will not have a chance if anyone subflings, so let him rest a little. Gentlemen, here we see that only the SRS, when something of vital interest and importance to national minorities, is always and at all times trying to find the opportunity to give them the will to carry out their actions and that they can carry out the activities they need for national minorities, and so these funds from the budget they are looking for. In any case, the SRS will support this amendment and in the day of voting vote vote for this amendment, and may the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians make an effort, since he is the initiator and promoter of this amendment, to find support in the majority he has always helped and for which he has always voted when elections are but always against the SRS. But here, it has been proven that the SRS is an opponent of the national minorities only when the elections are and never anywhere else. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, I hear a speaker just before, I wouldn't mention a name so I wouldn't give a cause for replication, which says this budget is so small in reserves, that the funds are small that it would be very dangerous to remove the funds from this position, these 100 million for the national councils of the national minorities. We have a position where you hid the money and put it away when you need it, and one of the positions is that ministry without a portfolio, i.e. Minister without the Ministry. There are huge funds, so he will be the most beautiful and best minister in the government for you ministers in the government, because whenever you miss money you will ask him to transfer and lend you money, so he will be among you most loved. You can transfer from these funds, which are requested in this amendment, and then later borrow those funds from that minister without a portfolio, and it will be settled there, there will be no problem with that. So much for your excuse that this is difficult and that it's inexhaustible. It's doable. A few days ago, we heard cries from the Democratic Party from MPs Mrs. Comic, as far as national minorities are concerned. Why did Mrs. Comic not advocate, use her authority to accept this and to advocate what was proposed in the amendment? Why did Mr. President, Mr. Dulic of the Democratic Party, who was supported by the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians for the election of the president of this House, not make one effort and help national minority councils get these funds? Why does the SVM always accept such parties and seek a useful partner and friend in them when they see that they always betray them, and so do other national minorities, that they only need them when the elections are? Remember only the election campaign, we are MPs of this parliament, in the last elections, just remember how the Democratic Party deceived the National Major Mutineers of Vojvodina. Look at the way they've been promised an apostle. You know what they say -- you know, Mirko Bajic. You did not promise, gentlemen, Mirko Bajic's term of office, you promised the National Council of Bunjevac. You can't call who you like, who you like and who you don't like. It's not our fault Mirko left you when he saw what you were like, so he escaped from the DS, he couldn't go with you and go to another party, to Vuksanovic or I don't know where. Now you don't like him because he left you. The Bunjevac National Council has concluded a contract with you in the pre-election campaign and you have promised that the Bunjevac National Council will have its representative in these benches. I told you last time that MPs of the province's parliament couldn't be in the republic's parliament, but Mirko Bajic could resign and have a representative of the Bunjevacs here. So something could never happen to the Serbian Radical Party -- that the promise, a public promise, would sign an agreement and break it so publicly. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, you make it easy to make promises, you break them lightly, you easily cheat on these national minorities and you promise them. There have been earlier promises and we remember them, especially with us where there's a national mixed environment, multiethnic, we know what promises there have been and how many frauds there have been. I don't want to act on you from the Democratic Party with this discussion. I want to act on the national minorities who survive all of this with you, to come to their senses and see who their sincere friends are, to take a look at once, to leave these concerns of national security and regimes around national minorities when elections are and in Serbian radicals they declare and seek enemies. Let them look back a little, if it takes 15-20 years, and point their finger and show where it is bad and weak, the Serbian Radicals have done it unfairly towards any national minority or individual. There have been calls to Vojvodina, in Subotica, as ethnic conflicts occur on national or I don't know what grounds. None of them were in Subotic. They know the people who come from Subotica. There are bar fights every day. People can fight the same nationality and different people, so it can't be reduced to some national hatred and that it's organized. These are the things we know that come from these parts. I especially underline and ask national minorities to call once, to sit at the table once, to see where their friends are, where the negotiators are, who they can talk to, who they can trust and who they can always rely on. In the Serbian Radical Party, they will always find an equal partner, a good friend, an associate and will always come across words of understanding, agreement and never be deceived. With the Democratic Party, I hope, you can't count and you can never look for partners in them. This law that prepares for the province's parliament is a law of deception. They found some professor writing a law like this that doesn't exist anywhere in the world, the law of deception and deception. You need them there only to secure themselves through these frauds always some 10-12 MPs who are on their side. All the essence and all the turmoil and controversy around that law are headed in that direction. The Democratic Party is not preparing this law at the province level in the interest of national minorities, but is preparing for this law to prepare some 10-12 MPs for the reserve; when elections come they all promise, and later on, turkey dots do not apply. I'm talking to arguments and facts. If anyone can challenge these facts, please, there's a pay phone. We who come from above, from Subotica, from Vojvodina are witnesses of what is happening and what are the promises of the Democratic Party. None of them have been filled. What did she do to you? What promise, what deal did she honor? Not to go back, as for the discussion that Korhec had on TV and said in the end that none of those promises had been made. Anyway, I ask you in the Serbian Radical Foreigner to look for a partner and we establish friendly, good neighbourly relations, as we have up in Subotica, and to go some ways, to once and for all tell the Democratic Party that he can't make promises lightly and cheat through his promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3596	The word has the People's Messenger Vjerica Radeta, then Minister Cvetkovic and Nadica Momirov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't answer my word to repeat what my colleague Gojko Radic said. True, Serbian Radical Party MPs will vote in favour of the amendment because it is a principled attitude and a sincere attitude of the Serbian Radical Party towards national minorities. Gojko Radic may have expressed a little unhappily when he said the SRS is a national minority opponent only in the election campaign. We are not an opponent in either election campaigns or the Democratic Party or any of the parties in Serbia, we are just political insolences. We think it would be a good idea, Mr. Minister, to find opportunities to accept this amendment when the government hasn't already done so. We Serbian Radicals also proposed that a new ministry -- the ministry of national minorities -- be formed when debated about the Law on Government. Now I have to say that I am sorry, that I did not understand why the MPs of the national minorities did not vote for that amendment, because we thought that this way much more attention could be paid to national minorities, that it could be much more funds through the ministry to be singled out. If the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party was then accepted, then today, we certainly wouldn't have this problem. Of course, it's not good... You know, colleagues from the Democratic Party are quite strange Democrats. When election campaigns, election campaigns are full of mouths and democracies and national minorities, you have even violated the electoral law and allowed national minorities to run in these last elections with only three thousand signatures of support for citizens, which, I repeat, is contrary to the law. We had a principled attitude back then, and we said, change the law, so if you vote in law that you don't need any signatures, let there be none, but as long as it stands in the law that that's 10,000 signatures of support for each list, then that literally means that's the case for each list. So this is what I'm telling you, extremely well-meaning and honest. As you can see, we are not adhering to anyone, we are merely expressing our principled attitudes. When we were supposed to say that we were opposed to breaking the law to meet the demands of national minorities, we said, no, we're not in violation of the law. When the ministry was to be formed, that is, when the Government Act was being made, we thought we should have the Ministry of National Minorities. Today we think we should vote for this amendment and we'll vote. The other day we also voted for one minority amendment because we think that the amendment is really good and that it should have been voted for. Yesterday I spoke to Mr. Pastor about this amendment, frankly, before I entered into the essence of the amendment. I told him we'd be happy to see what was going on and probably support the amendment. I was really glad that Mr. Pastor, regardless of how he performs on the public scene, showed that he believes in the justice of the SRS, that he believes that we will do what is in the interest of any Serbian citizen. I must point out, too, that we in the territory of the Republic of Serbia also have the national councils of Serbs. Of course, Serbs are not a national minority anywhere in Serbia, counting Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs are the majority population in Serbia, but I now publicly urge colleagues Muju Mukovic and Esad Djudjevic to, as influential people in the local community in Tutin, help the SRS Municipal Committee in Tutin get at least one office, two with two, to have the opportunity to function, because the most Serbs and many Muslims are members of the SRS in Tutin. My colleague Mujo Mukovic knows that I've come to Tutin several times and have been to visit decent Muslim families. I told him that the other day in private, and now I'm telling him. It's my favorite thing when in the mornings, both Easter and Christmas, they invite me to congratulate me. Of course, I congratulate them, Bajram, on the day of Bajram. So there is a national larger Serb in Tutin, which was formed because Serbs in Tutin have major problems by local self-government. They had to organize themselves and don't get a single penny to function. Also, you know, fellow Mukovic, where they hold meetings. You know they're being held in a bar because they don't have any other room. So it really is necessary, Minister, to consider the possibility to accept this amendment, because it makes sense, it makes sense. And if you have any problems, I wasn't in the O.R. at that point, I don't know if the amendment was technically well done, if it's possible to redistribute in this way, you can do it by technical regulation and that the Legislative Committee confirms it. Don't let that be your reason and get away with it, because that's not the reason. If you're willing, you can accept this amendment. Of course, if you do not do so, I am convinced that the Assembly in the day of voting will accept this amendment by majority of the votes of the MPs, because it is indeed one of the amendments, of course, along with amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, which should inevitably be voted on, because the purpose of budgeting, as well as any law, is to at least apply that law in a way and at least this size for citizens. If we adopt this amendment, then indeed a large number of citizens will be pleased.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3598	The word has a Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3599	Dear People's MPs, I'll be very brief. This amendment is similar to the previous amendment in a structural sense. So there's a request that doesn't seem very controversial, so money is needed, and on the other hand there's a target, a reserve that needs to be reduced. The government's response is the same as before. So we don't accept it not because we think it's unwarranted, but simply because the reserve, so that position that's a target, has no capacity to withstand it. This idea you heard – if you can't spare it, find something else – sounds very nice, but only color-coded. The MPs know that the process of treatment for the amendments is strictly formalised and even if someone gives an amendment where the government and everyone agrees with the first part, and not the second, it must reject it as a whole. It's not easy to say - I agree, but not from this position, but from someone else. So it's simply not legally possible. Now I'd like to say something about numbers and what the real situation is about this and what we're proposing, because we think we have a solution. So, when it comes to national councils, at this point there's consumption going on at a monthly level of about five million dinars; in six months, spending is about 30 million. The amendment suggests that another 130 million for the second half of the year, which would be an increase of 4.37 times or 370%. We were suggested to make an increase of 21.5%, however, after the talks we had today we concluded that we needed to make some additional effort and that we defined the next budget strategy. Once we enter the second half of this year, we will increase the monthly tranches by five million by 50%, and they will be 7.5 million a month. The 7.5 million will last for three months, and after that we will increase them by an additional 2.5 million, and they will come to 10 million and will end up at a level of 10 million a month, and this will create some basis for planning in 2008. This approach will also lead to deficits relative to the proposed figure in the budget, but it is our proposal to keep it this way, to go with this technology, and then to use the reserve, not in advance, and to take it down now, but when we run out of money, and it's going to be somewhere in the order of 15 million, not 100 or 20 as requested. I got the impression based on the talks that minority representatives agreed to the proposed proposal, but they remain on the amendment and there is nothing I can do about it. Anyway, I want to pass on the message that we took it seriously and I think the solution that is offered is fair and acceptable on both our part and theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3600	According to the amendment, Nadia Momirov, Pastor Balint and Rajko Baralic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3601	Ladies and gentlemen, it is positive to hear that Serbian Radical Party MPs will vote in favour of this amendment. However, it is not accurate that there are no incidents in Subotica. There are incidents in Subotic, and there was an unfortunate incident the other day. The president of the Croatian-Bunjevac and Shocking Party, Mr. Blasko Temunovic, was beaten in the street, with ugly cries from those who carried out the act. The incidents in Subotica, unfortunately, exist and I ask all political parties not to show their concern for national minorities by voting for one amendment or not, but rather, that concern and well-being towards national minorities is expressed in a different way and there would certainly be no such incidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3602	The word has Gojko Radic, a replica, and then Mr Balint Pastor. Mr. Radic identified himself in your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3603	I haven't said for a moment that there aren't any bar fights or I don't know what, but when people walk around because of the Saturday park next to the hall, because they bite, they separate them, they can't separate them, and then they fight and they say it's a national incident. This incident that Mrs. Momirov is talking about really happened a few days ago in Subotica and it is known that there are debts and obligations between, or earlier, that a man beat a man with a baseball bat... What does that have to do with national incidents and conflicts? I don't understand. I just understand that your promises, in the ruling coalition, don't apply anything. Here's one proof: last Thursday night from this assembly from here, Miss Momirov headed towards Sudotica, was met by Mrs. Ex-minister Dulic, went to the Serbian and recruited the president of the Serb municipality to leave the DSS and move to G17 plus. A conversation at a coffee shop in Srbobran runs like this, says Mr. President of the Democratic Party of Serbia... These are your national conflicts in power, in the coalition, and that tells you how you are, how you treat each other. You know how the conversation is going -- here, I've defeated now, there was a referendum on my recall, radicals; what should we do and how do we move on with them? Ms. Momirov answers - they need to be eradicated, and Mrs. Ex-minister says - you know, it's hard, they tried in Republika Srpska, we can't, we don't know which way. Gentlemen, all this, so I can read in the press yesterday as the gentleman in question leaves the DSS party, with his friends, and their closest ideas are from G17 plus. Here, this dinner and this conversation in Srbobran bear fruit and they agreed. Apparently, Nadica Momirov, since there is a disbanded committee of her party, has succeeded, her honor is good organizer, works well for her party, and she has attracted a good fit, and later she will see how good it is for them, from the DSS to her party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3604	Mr. Pastor Ballint has the word. Please, be quiet, let me hear from you, just one piece of information before I give my word to Mr. Balint. At 18.55, a direct transfer of the Assembly session for football and volleyball is interrupted. After these games are over, there will be a recording of what happens in the meantime, for all those who are now watching that they know that they will be able to track what the work of the Assembly looked like in the meantime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3605	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am the promoter of this amendment, but I would like to say a few words in front of the Group of Minorities. First of all, I have to say that I did have some conversations during this afternoon with Mr. Minister Cvetkovic, but I did not tell him that this was a solution that he had just proposed for us acceptable. I said it's not acceptable not because we don't trust him, we believe him, and we're convinced that it would be as Mr. Minister promised, but we can't accept this solution for the simple reason that it's not just about the amount of money, but it's about the fact that national minority councils are a constitutional category, a legal category. Simply, the Republic of Serbia must find some systemic solution to fund national councils, as national councils, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, are the highest bodies of cultural self-government, or cultural autonomy of national minorities. Currently in Serbia there are 14 national councils, 14 national communities have formed their national councils, and are still in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and for 2007 national councils at the position of NGOs, which we simply cannot accept. I must also say that I am sorry that the Democratic Party has brought itself into such a situation that the SRS must protect national councils. I also have to say that yesterday I did not say that I believed in the justice of the Serbian Radical Party. I believe that this amendment of ours is good not only for the Hungarian National Community, but for all the national communities that have formed national councils, and I also want to thank all the parties who have promised to support this amendment. I must tell you, primarily MPs from the Democratic Party, that there are good prospects for this amendment to be adopted, and even if it is not adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which case it will receive a large number of votes. I wonder how the MPs, primarily the Democratic Party, who are members of the national communities, will justify themselves in their midst. For example, how will Ana Tomanova-Makanova, who is president of the Slovak National Council, recently co-ordinator of all national councils in the Republic of Serbia, explain to her voters, or citizens in her midst that she has not voted in favour of the SVM amendment? How will it explain that we were together in the coordination of national councils a few weeks ago agreed to ask for a sum of 150 million dinars from the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget, that this was not done, and that it would still vote for the budget and not vote for our amendment? I am very sorry to have to say this, but I am also the chairman of the Executive Board of the Hungarian National Council. We will have meetings of the co-ordination body of the National Councils both these weeks and these months. I think that we will all have to account for the other presidents of national councils, other national communities and that we will see who are MPs doing something in the interests of national minorities, in the interests of national councils, and who are those who do not. I also have to say that unless, for example, Ana Tomanova-Makanova votes for the proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2007, if Petar Kuntic, president of the Democratic Union of Vojvodina Croats, doesn't vote for this budget, and I don't know how he can vote for this budget, then simply the budget won't pass. That is why I have appealed, indeed well-intentioned, to all the MPs of the Democratic Party for a solution, not such a solution as Mr Cvetkovic had suggested, but a systemic solution for national councils and for the budget to receive those positions belonging to the national councils under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and under the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. I once again appeal to all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to vote in favour of this amendment to receive national councils and budget positions belonging to national councils for four years under the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3606	By amendment, Ivica Dacic instead of Rajko Baralić, then Slobodan Maras, then Rajko Đuric, then Slobodan Gavrilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3607	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that the amendment's proposings, Mr Vargo and Balint, will not withdraw the amendment because it will be voted by the SRS and the SPS. I would like to remind you that some representatives of your national community voted to elect this government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I hope that this government will have an understanding of your demands. Anyway, this is a very important question. For years, our country has suffered criticism for allegedly not having a good relationship with national minorities, and we have come to a situation now that the SRS and the SPS support the demands of national minorities, and these national minorities have been saying for years that their position at the time of our government was not satisfactory. But, well, now that we're on the same side, on the side of the opposition, I hope our relations change. I would like from this place to invite all of our state authorities to take very seriously what has been published today in the Banja Luka newspaper, related to Ahtisaari. The paper published, as already said here, that the Albanian mafia and the Albanian state bought the Ahtisaari plan. In Banja Luka, Focus announced that German intelligence has revealed that twom euros have been transferred to the private account of UN special envoy for Cosmet Martti Ahtisaari, with multimillion-euro amounts allegedly moving up to 40m euros on several occasions. The paper states that the German intelligence service provided the report to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Also, the GNI agents discovered a clear and frequent connection and communication between leading Albanian mafia people, their mediators and Ahtisaari. According to the document, Albanian leadership in Kosovo bought the final plan of Martti Ahtisaari, which definitely favours independence and secession from Kosovo from Serbia, as confirmed in a report delivered by Ban Ki-moon. Of course, witnesses are listed here, agents who saw a jeep belonging to the Albanian government on February 12th outside Ahtisaari's building, and 12 days later the arrival of a black Mercedes without plates with Ekshet Bor, the leader of the Albanian mafia, etc., outside Ahtisaari's house, was observed. Of course, one of you will now talk about stories of an international conspiracy against Serbia, but in conditions when Ahtisaari openly stands by Albanians, when at all costs he pushes Kosovo and Metohija's independence, I think it is the obligation of all political parties to talk about this. Those who know how European institutions operate know that this topic would be on the agenda and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, such as on the agenda and NATO camps that are unknowingly formed in the territory of Europe. Our country alone did not react to the fact that during the bombing, two Serbian soldiers were taken from Serbia's territory and were staying in that illegal NATO camp in Germany. Also, only in the Council of Europe and the European Parliament is it said of the adverse consequences of bombing our country with ammunition with impoverished uranium. So let's not let some others talk about it, let's let our political parties talk about it, because in ten days we may not discuss these amendments in this House, we will discuss imposing Ahtisaari's plan, which, as you can see, there is evidence from the German intelligence service that it was purchased by the Albanian mafia and Albanian politics. That is why it is a topic to be addressed by all political parties and by all state authorities. I hope that this text published in Banja Luka "Focus" will be a good opportunity to talk about this in our public, not to argue with each other whether one party supports one amendment or another more or less. On the agenda in ten days can be 15% of our territory, or 12.3, anyway. Whatever the national minorities live on, every bit is very important for Serbia and is most important for Serbia. So I urge all political parties to pay proper attention to this. I hope that the state authorities will do so, and I hope that our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will do so, as it will debate next week. He'll have a chance to see before him, and he'll be pommelizing with Carl del Ponte, among other things, and on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3608	The word is made by the MP Slobodan Maraš, after the amendment, then by the MP Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3609	I wanted to say that LDP MPs will support this amendment submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Pastor Balint for a number of reasons. The most fundamental thing is that national councils are very important for the functioning of our citizens of national minorities, who thus maintain their personality and ennoble, etc., and also because life in our society is much richer because of it. But I'm worried about something else. I'm worried that DS MPs won't support this amendment. Let's remember, all of us who worked on an election campaign in Vojvodina know that every day from all possible stands held in Vojvodina, from all the billboards that adorned Vojvodina, there were many words of support from the DS and called on national minorities to vote for them. I am not overly surprised that one promise of 100 euros per hectare was not maintained through this budget, but this really surprises me, because I know that the Democratic Party in Vojvodina has achieved, according to them, a very good result, but I am afraid that in the next elections, with such behaviour in the Assembly, it will not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3610	The word has a People's MP Rajko Djuric and then a National MP, Slobodan Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3611	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I support the amendment submitted by Mr. Varga and the opinion expressed by the president of the Parliamentary Group of Minority Mr. Pastor. I, I will openly say, had the opportunity to talk to Mr. Boris Tadic about national minorities, especially the Roma, the day before yesterday with Mr. Kostunica and one occasion with Mr. Micunovic, who is not present at the moment. Everyone agreed that it was necessary to improve the position of national minorities and, in that sense, I do not blame Mr Cvetkovic in any way, because, of course, he could have done what he did, but for me, Mr Tadic as president of the Republic and, of course, Prime Minister Kostunica, who clearly expressed their position, bear the greatest responsibility for it. There is one principle shown by philosopher Jean Paul Sartre: "The truth is on the side of those who are least privileged." We know the position of the national minority, especially Roma, and I told Voji Kostunica yesterday that the item that is given for Roma in this country is less than the item that stands out for the zoo. I'm not going to quote an Italian philosopher so that someone doesn't eventually conclude that I'm understated, but there is one belief that political philosophy that turns into a zoo doesn't have a great future. I honestly believe that this relationship will also show itself in the financial position. On account of what Mr. Ivica Dacic said for a little while with reason and law, I was in Nis yesterday at a meeting where representatives and ambassadors from Europe said that if Europeans really want European Serbia, then they must have European standards for our country. We're not to that extent uninformed, so we don't know what it was like in the long or near past. Please, I said, I'm sorry to repeat, I know our country has huge problems, but at least no one will convince me that Serbia is in a worse position than it was in Spain after Frank's death or Portugal after 30 years of dictatorship. The one who wants good Serbia, at least to the extent that Spain and Portugal wanted it, should show it in action, rather than putting a constant burden on the Serbian state, on the citizens of Serbia, etc. And there's always an excuse. The team, given that some comparisons occur, I told them -- no one can convince me that Serbia can compare, excuse me, with Nazi Germany, because after all, Secretary General Conrad Adenauer was Dr Hans Globken, who was responsible for 56,000 people killed, and he signed that 26,000 Roma were sent to Auschwitz - Birkenau. So, yesterday I appealed, and of course today I do, that there is understanding for Serbia and, of course, that European standards are inevitably applied in relation to Serbia and the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3612	The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Gavrilovic, and then a National MP, Srdjan Sajn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3613	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, apparently the budget, including this item, is a good reason to run a particular political and pre-election campaign. It is legitimate, everyone has the right to do so, but what cannot be deleted, for the past 17 years from political practice in Serbia, is clear and visible which parties were both in part and in words at the points of view of civil, civil society, protecting the interests of all citizens, especially national minorities. We did not do this in 1990, nor in the previous elections, for demagogue reasons or for the votes we did it out of conviction and belief that a country in transition must change from the basics and that this change must be systematic. In that part with Mr. Pastor, I agree, we have to do it systemically. The budget item does not express the system. We clearly expressed our systemic commitment when we adopted in the federal parliament a law that is above European standards, which contains a large number of recommendations, rather than binding norms. We did not do this under the pressure of national minorities, or under someone's blackmail, we did not do it commercially, we did it valuablely, with the goal of making it necessary for this country. Such a law has arisen and it is normal that in a country like Serbia, which has huge problems, financial, economic, structural, economic, cultural, whatever you want, political and international, we cannot solve all the issues, from Kosovo's color to today, for one year. That's impossible. Look, please, gentlemen dear, and the Serbian Mother has abolished her magazine, which no longer comes out because of the funds. She also has no possibility of having her publishing, which has been interrupted. What are the warehouses and depots of the National Library of Serbia? They're facts and it's because of a relationship that's been in this country for a very long time. We have to change it, but to trust each other, to do it for conviction, not for certain pre-election or other special demagogue reasons. The Democratic Party will because of the stability of the system it believes and is building, along with everyone who believes in it... I think it is indeed the Minister's proposal that assures us that in the next budget, which the debate will begin within a month, two days, by committees and in public, and will already be in this parliament in October, to express. It's not that long that we can see that it's serious. Let's not now call individual MPs who don't deserve it. This is one clear political orientation. We don't want to give national minorities and their advice away, either, because we didn't show it anything, but we want to create a stable system that's expressed through the budget. If we had talked earlier, it might have been better, and we had more time, or maybe it was because negotiations on the government took a long time to reach some numbers that did not express our commitment. There is no doubt that the item here is small and minor for the work of national councils, but there is our effort and our intention to increase it in a certain way. Indeed, politics should not be trusted by anyone but by faith in the work; for a few months and, behold, it will be shown what will happen. That's why anyone who wants us to have a stable system through this budget needs to understand that. I pray those who speak lightly here on alleged unfulfilled promises... And when it comes to our promise of 100 euros per sown area per hectare, it's contained in this budget and we'll see if it's true. Even some cultures will have several tens of thousands, because it is 100 euros on average, so we will see if it is a promise that has only been made in the elections or if it will really be applied. This will be seen by those people who live out of it, not selectively, all households that are registered as agricultural households, in that sense that selectively. That's what we said when we spoke in the election campaign, because we want to encourage farmers to register and show our farmers what are the advantages of joining the European Union funds and entering the European Union, to show that in the European Union last year the agricultural budget was 46 billion dinars, only for agriculture. We want to show that the state must have far more stimulating and more resources separate to the work of those whose back this country has been coming out of the crisis, I don't know in which centuries, but in this one for sure, and in the one behind us. That's why I'm not bidding on who's voting for this amendment or not, but I want us to stand firm behind what we said. We will stand behind this, and when it comes to this budget and its realisation and the 2008 budget, which we can tailor, because in the opening words of both Minister and Mr Vlahovic, on behalf of the majority, they have made it clear that in these six months we have had to take over certain commitments that have arisen as such and that we were not free to form that political orientation that will show some changes and shifts in the budget. We will see this in the 2008 draft budget, much more precisely and much more convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3614	National MP Balint Pastor, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3615	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Gavrilovic, we have been very well in agreement since I was an MP (I am, of course, in the first term of office); I am sure that we will also be in the future. We must cooperate because you are the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This committee is of great importance to all national minorities, as well as to the Hungarian national minority, but I must also say that for several years the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians has been a strategic partner to the Democratic Party. It's inexplicable to me how it's possible that you couldn't find a system solution to this problem. I simply do not understand how this is possible – I have been president of the Executive Board of the Hungarian National Council since December 2002, since then there have been various governments – that the planned funds in this budget have been at least since 2002. It is not clear to me how this is possible that the budget, which was created several months ago, which the previous government did, which Mr Dinkic did, provided 68 million for national councils (which is very easy to see if what I'm saying is true), and since the Democratic Party in the Government, the item has been reduced by 4.9 million dinars. It's simple for me, as a strategic partner of the Democratic Party, it's incomprehensible. On the other hand, I agree that it was possible to discuss the budget, but not in a way that we received the budget on Friday, and that the debate began on Monday. Of course, we were open, and I also said about the election of the new government that we are always constructive, that we are always well-intentioned, and that we are always open to co-operation and conversation, but unfortunately not from the guilt of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, it was not possible to come to that conversation. As for the promise, I said, I believe Mr Cvetkovic, I trust you, too, Mr. Gavrilovic, but the national councils have been following these promises since 2002. We simply want, not because we don't trust you, but because of the reason that this problem is systemically solved, to find a solution that national councils are not in the same item where NGOs are, because the highest authorities are the cultural autonomy of national minorities. The point is, not primarily the point in the amount, but the point is that this problem, the position of the national councils that are the constitutional category, has to be resolved systematically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3616	This was a replica. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3617	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out a few facts to you regarding Mr. Gavrilovic's discussion. On the one hand, Mr. Gavrilovic spoke to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and that the solutions under the law are above all European standards. This may and may be true, however, as long as the law was then passed with an dishonest intention, I think it clearly speaks of the fact that since the adoption of that law, which is one framework law, no law has been passed on jurisdiction, no choice, no funding of national councils. For what reason? Simply, the institutions of the national councils could not be filled in or filled in with content. On the other hand, Mr. Gavrilovic said he suggested that the amendment be rejected for reasons of maintaining the stability of the system. I think it is very sad if in Serbia the stability of the system depends on whether additional 100 million dinars will be allocated to national councils. As for previous consultations or possibilities or why we haven't consulted before, I want to remind you of the period when Mr Djelic was Minister of Finance. We wrote letters to him almost every month with the aim of receiving us to consult, and while he was the finance minister, no national councils for their work were receiving any money. That's what Mr. Pastor was talking about. We've been listening to promises for years. This is an opportunity for those promises to be fulfilled in practice. I appeal once again to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3618	National MP Slobodan Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3619	And there's this in every society and every organized organization, there's discipline. You've put a comment here on how many Members of the majority spoke critically about the budget. That's positive for me, not negative. This shows that certain parts of that budget are unsatisfactory and that it stemmed from these circumstances. Many items have remained impossible to solve, when we are in such a time situation. I answered, first of all, to say that Mr. Pastor was right about the time that was at our disposal to make this budget a little better. If we had a little more time, we, as the parliamentary majority, would have influenced certain solutions together with you and others who would be interested, and that is one of the limiting factors of the budget. The previous speaker expressed doubts about the honesty of the law's adoption. He was not brought under any press, because of the demands of Europe or anyone else. It was brought exclusively with the party's strategic, serious orientations since the 1990s to build a serious civil, multiethnic, multi-cultural, multi-confessional society with tolerance, with built institutions, with certain institutions becoming constitutional and thus binding. These are the system changes we've made. No one can go below that anymore. Now you doubt whether they're smaller or bigger, and that depends on the circumstances we're in, and they're, by Pastor, less important than the system change. We provided it, and I'm sure we'll do what we said and do here. Ten million dollars a month is 120 million. It's a little less than the requirements that the amendment meets, to be by the end of the year. In 2008 to enter with this basis and it is important that the basis that is realized in this year be the basis for the 2008 budget... That is why I call on the representatives of the national minorities in this House, regardless of which party they are in, to understand this as one of the circumstances in which we are, if they really believe that we are a partner who has kept his word in his basic matters. I know there have been some problems, these or those, but the freeway DS is the party that cares about forming such an idea not only of itself, but of Serbia and its transition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3620	MP Srdjan Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3621	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just comment. I don't really see a problem if in the next six months someone will spend 20 or 30 million less, but I see a problem in something else – that we can't agree back five or six years; on the one hand, we gave cultural autonomy to national minorities and the National Council is defined as the bearer of cultural autonomy of minorities, and on the other hand, money from the budget of the Ministry of Culture is spent exclusively by the minister, with the possible consent of someone. I think that there will be Mr. Pastor and Mr. Varga, who are the proposings of this amendment, agree with me that we must define a serious law on minorities, serious mechanisms as to how these minorities achieve cultural autonomy, whether cultural autonomy is achieved in such a way that one party will have representatives of minorities who do not have a real impact on the policy of that party, or we will create conditions for national councils of national minorities, as bearers of cultural autonomy, to decide on the means to improve the culture of national minorities. I think that's a serious problem. If we don't work on it in the coming months, we don't pass that law, I think it's going to happen to us, like right now, that the management minister still doesn't know where his 30,000 citizens' signature for the Roma National Council's replacement initiative is. How can I explain to citizens who have given us trust, who have pleaded for the replacement of this national council that it is a serious state when they say - where is 30,000 of our signatures? Is it possible to lose 30,000 documents in one country? You'll agree he can't. Should I, as an MP and as a citizen of this country, now investigate the archives where these documents are located? What do I mean by that? This government, this parliament must understand (this is not marketing, indeed): or we will constructively cooperate, and this example of accepting amendments from Mr. Minister shows a way that if we talk constructively we can co-operate and solve problems... But if we're playing government and parliament in a way that I can't get an MP, even though I'm calling the minister for a month and a half, because he knows he only has to pick up three phones that suit him, then we gentlemen are a non-serious state. This is the consequence of it. So let us form, to use not the capital in money, but the capital in the democratic potential that we have in parliament, to really take advantage of every democratic initiative in the best possible way, because it is indeed an advantage and that is what leads Serbia forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3622	MP Zarko Obradovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3623	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. The president of our party, the head of Ivica Dacic's parliamentary group, has already said that we will vote in favour of this amendment. This discussion, which followed, has made us even more convinced that it is necessary to vote for this amendment, because we have heard several very convincing explanations by minority representatives why this amendment should be accepted. We have heard what these minorities need, and Serbia can win with these amendments, and I have come out for reasons that besides supporting the amendment I want to say a few more words that would be worth remembering or at least think about. I think the issue of the position of minority members and the attitude of the state towards minority members is something that can be a sacred example of the politics of the Serbian state and of the previous large Yugoslavia. Because if we are absorbing politics and political parties even since the 1990s, a multi-party Serbia cannot be ignored for the fact that even in the great Yugoslavia and then in the multi-party Serbia the state has worked, it has tried to do everything in its power for minority members to get the rights to follow them and be absolutely respected. In that great communist Yugoslavia, I don't know if you remember, some minority members had more rights than others, because they created an institutional framework and so on. The key, so that some members of some minority communities were part of the famous and famous humane key in different forms of life. Since 1990, in a multi-party Serbia, the state has indeed done everything possible to ensure that minority members have the same position. If there were incidents in the 1990s, and it was, it was still incidents. State policy could not be questioned. I'm not saying this by accident, there are incidents after 2000, but they're under another dimension. By 2000, they had qualified the country's relations with minority members and served as a nice propaganda tool against the state. After 2000, it was qualified in another way. Fellow MPs, whether you accept this or not, remains one undeniable fact, that the state of Serbia has singled out financial resources to address the situation of minority members, that the state of Serbia is the only country in the Balkans (or how they like to say popularly, in Southeast Europe), which has kept as many minority members as it had in its composition as it had before these events of the 1990s: breaking up large Yugoslavia, creating new independent states, civil war and aggression on our country. All other countries, but all of them, have reduced the number of members of their staff, and it is worth thinking about, because those who lectured us about the need to improve human rights, I mean members of the so-called international communities, that human rights should be respected and respected, improved the rights of minority members, believed or not, have neither adopted international documents establishing the standard in the country's policy towards minorities or in relation to the state towards minorities, and some, of course, have neither recognised nor recognised at that time, nor today, members of minorities in their territory. It's life. The state of Serbia needs in a practical, concrete way, by accepting the amendments, not by telling a story, to show that it has a relationship with minority members. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia must find a way to accept this amendment too, because if the Government does not find it in this response, and MPs vote, it will be a good thing for Serbia, it will be a good thing for minority members, so you will see that a technical solution to be an integral part of the budget law and of course will be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3624	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Belic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3625	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, it is obvious that MPs from the ruling coalition have submitted a very small number of amendments, which is good, the draft budget was obviously made with the consent of members of the ruling coalition. It seems to me that I did not have as much authority as Mica Albianić to adopt this amendment to me, but I will try with the power of the arguments first and foremost to convince you, and then the MPs. The amendment consists practically of two parts. The first concerns the damages caused by natural disasters, i.e. the city, floods, for the last month on Serbia's territory. I simply suggested that another 200 million be separated from the reserve funds for that purpose. For what? I'm going to give you only one piece of information that I assume they have in the government, of course, and also in the resolution ministry, and for example, damages related only to Valjevo, or Valjev Municipality. Over 2,000 hectares have been damaged, and this is the official data that has just arrived today from the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute and the material will be declared by the Committee on Agriculture at its session Monday. So over 2,000 acres... (President: Please pay attention, let us listen to the speaker. I don't mind. I believe most of the MPs are really interested in this. The estimated damage is over 70 million dinars. The explanation that we have received, of course, which is quite correct, says that the amendment is being rejected because the previous procedure should determine the amount of funds needed by the municipal commissions, in accordance with the laws, or methodology. I'm sure all the local self-governments did it, among other things, did it by the Valjev municipality, and that's why I think this amendment should be adopted. If we know that after this first catastrophic flood that took place in Valjevo, only five million could be defined for compensation for damage to all sufferers, as far as objects, fields, etc. are concerned, then this amendment really takes effect. Furthermore, the aforementioned RHMZ report said that it is a very alarming situation due to a small number of missiles that have anti-urban stations. One excuse is that these modest funds are the result of temporary financing, but the next is said to be the maintenance of a network of anti-building cells is a major problem, which must be solved in the coming period, and at this point in Serbia's territory 103 anti-building stations are not working because of facilities that are older and more than 35 years old, which must indeed be a signal to find an adequate legal solution quickly. I think this is also another argument in favor of the facts I'm talking about and that we really need to have hearing and accept this amendment. The second part of the amendment concerns the compensation of the Kolubar district that suffered from the 1998 earthquake. Of course, it's inappropriate to talk after almost nine years about around 4,500 facilities in the Kolubar district not yet being recovered, yet citizens have not been compensated. The legitimate question of the previous government, and the one before it, even now, is what has been going on for so many years. Of course, it is no answer for these 4,500 citizens who are waiting for the government and for us sitting in this Parliament to, above all, change the way to solve this problem, the whole methodology, the concept, but also, it cannot be without money. If at this point 320m and slightly more, including the 79m from the period when the Capital Investment Ministry was mentioned by May as the competent ministry, it is about 400m. One type of facility costs about two million. If you consider that there are about 4,500 objects, with this dynamic inflow of resources it is clear that in the next 15 or 20 years, citizens cannot solve this problem. Another very important issue, the moment when the first government adopted the estimated damage and its revaluation was carried out, and at this point the debt of the state towards the citizens is 8.3 billion dinars, it is clear that then the government must find, as I have already said, a second mechanism, a second methodology or simply has to speed up and increase the amount of funds envisaged. It is explained that the current situation, how much of it has been done, and whether the funds have been spent reasonably, should be considered first. This is quite correct and fine, but in the last three years, for each dinar that the government, or the Resort Ministry, has defined for this purpose, feedback has been obtained, regular and control of ministries, budgetary inspections etc. Unfortunately, I couldn't, nor would I dare say if something like that was done by 2004, since I wasn't quite aware of how it was done in the Directorate. Since 2004, I've been in the position of President of the Council of the Directorate until January of this year, and I know that. As I have already mentioned the advice of the Directorate, I must say that several very constructive proposals from its own departments, namely the government itself, are primarily to try to resolve the questions of citizens of the credit system. They might be in an unfavourable position, but if the state stands as a guarantee behind such funding, of course with very low interest, a little longer period, I personally know, and I face this idea and the initiative of those people I'm visiting on the ground every day, they're asking us to do it. Of course, that would also be through their personal participation. The third thing is that she also assigned material that was so unfortunately finished immediately, perhaps after a year and a half, because of abuse. Probably not a well-developed concept of distribution of material. I have to say, half of this number of 4.5 thousand refers to recovery. Here you will in the simplest way to solve the problem of these citizens if you assign them what belongs to them on the basis of the estimated damage, and in the category of easily damaged objects. Of course, we must not forget that Valjevo had had the same accident, among many cities and areas in Serbia in 1999, that it suffered a lot from the bombing. I'd like to get an answer. I will use this amendment to officially ask the authorities in the government after the transformation and the directorate (I think that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic or someone from that team has managed the reconstruction) – how many states in Valjev and Valjev municipalities have allocated funds to resuscitate these facilities and how many obligations there are still. Is that what you're thinking? I must mention that, because we are representatives of local self-government and I are almost daily faced with the demands of these citizens. Those who come from where I come from know that Krusik is one of the military factories that's almost destroyed. But the large area affected by the Krusik factory also includes buildings along the fence and many of these facilities have been damaged. Furthermore, individual isolated sites of military importance, and even civil, have been damaged during the bombing, but these people have received nothing so far, not even a dinar. So, that's what I wanted to say and I appeal first and foremost to Mr. Minister, and especially to my fellow Members to understand that this is a very serious matter and it is not about any narrow local interest, especially when it comes to compensation from natural natural natural disasters. I did not say that in this report which will be discussed by the Committee on Agriculture there are also a number of other parts in central and western Serbia, that a quick and effective response will be both the ministries and the government, if, God forbid, something like that gets us again, of course, the first ad hoc aid. I thank you, indeed, with the hope that we will adopt this amendment. In the end, I would like to take this opportunity to say that New Serbia's MPs are in complete composition where they can be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3626	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, then by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3627	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these people who speak only when there's a TV camera now not in the O.R. So we're doing our job normally. I'm not usually frustrated because someone promised to vote, I don't care at all. I'm working on the amendments that are on the agenda. I prepared the budget very carefully and read the amendments very carefully. My colleague Belic's amendment is meaningful, the SPS will vote in favour of this amendment, and with that I will give the following explanation. 15 days ago, I reported here according to the Rules of Procedure and asked that this issue under Mr Belic's amendment be the matter of emergency session of the Committee on Agriculture and that session was scheduled for Monday. Thank you, Mr. Maskiu, for having scheduled a session of the Committee, where we will discuss all matters. This is a terrible problem in Serbia. Mr. Minister, it's very correct, it's nothing personal, you said a dangerous thesis here today – that the government can't accept the amendment because it's simply not possible. I understand your position and position of the Ministry of Finance, because it is very difficult and delicate, but I ask everything to understand – everything the Assembly decides, the Government must do. So, if the National Assembly votes the amendment, what the kids would say, I apologize for someone getting down on their eyelashes, that one has to do it. I'm just asking that it's not an argument. I really do have an understanding and I said that the reserve space is so thin that I think it's not good, but anyway. In the election campaign and right after the elections, take the press, ten statements by Mr Djelic that the Democratic Party, i.e. Her financial council has a final budget, that it is a matter of the moment when the prime minister, the finance minister, will be appointed and that we will have this important law in the debate. Later, it turned out that from February to this day we were not in a position to talk about it. But here comes the new budget, hopefully we'll have enough time and enough arguments, as well as this, to settle it properly. Regarding specific issues, two issues proposed by Mr Belic to the amendment. It's a national disgrace first. You know, it's easy from a distance, from this home, from the Terrace, I don't know where to talk about elemental disasters, so we'll do everything we can. Please, when a city destroys the harvest, there's a great story about Sima Matavula, whatever you want to read, that's not even on the substance in that year, it's below the substance level. If his orchard is destroyed, he's five years old... Mr. Gavrilovic is from Prevor, there are the large fruits of apricots, the best in Serbia. If a young orchard destroys the city, for five years, it's not possible to make any revenue. That's why it's important to study this. I have seen, Mr. Minister, that there is a significant increase in the budget. I thank you for that very sincerely. There is a significant increase in this position, the system of connections etc. There'll be an opportunity to talk about it on Monday. The problem in Serbia with anti-urban protection is being broken into three basic issues. There are no financial resources that can be committed to the purchase of anti-building missiles. Anti-urban rocket manufacturers do not produce for unknown customers, because if they do, they have no one to sell them to. Manufacturers like Tivat, who is no longer in our country, have no interest in this production. A manufacturer such as "Polyester", Priboj, of the required 800 anti-building missiles, delivered 60 from the anti-urban center of Bour - Užice because it was no longer available. I'm telling you quite the exact details. You also have this combination of Valjevo and Trajal, one machine factory, and another charge. It's, unfortunately, rocket range below four thousand feet. Therefore, the state must be defined for the system, or it will do as Slovenia or another state - to build a supporting solidarity fund, so if one region hits the city to pay for damage, estimated damage 100% and then try to resuscitate it over the coming years. There are combined systems, and there's this one with aviation, with various chemical resources, etc. The damage to Serbia's city is huge. We're having problems with a few air corridors, and I want to say here, and last time I said, we have a serious problem with the Tuzla corridor. So the anti-building shooter in Serbia can't fire, or launch any rocket unless he gets consent from one of the nine centres in Serbia that operate this system, which is in Serbia the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute. For first aid, I wanted to write similar amendments, I believed that if someone in power did so, the government would accept, and as you saw, the government accepted the amendment of the National Assembly president and vice president of the National Assembly. I want to tell you it's a shame. It's a shame as a principle, it doesn't make sense, it's been done both last time and another. So if the government wants, if something is missed, to make an amendment to the draft budget itself, it is not disputed, and not to have some MPs serve the Government on behalf of the Government and to write on their behalf amendments that will become an integral part of the law. Regarding this second part of your amendment, Mr. Belic, the National Assembly adopted the final account for the year 2000. In the final account for 2000, among other things, is what you are talking about spent funds in Kolubar County and there are some of them in 2001. So, if you think there's some problem with that, ask a parliamentary question, because we're interested in how things have been going all the way. So we support that the Colombian end, and there are several very poor municipalities there, Mininica, Osecina and others, is qualified and that people can live and work there normally. If a man doesn't have a house, he's not a man of human dignity. If the peasant doesn't have a house, he doesn't have any perspective. So it is important in this respect that this amendment be accepted and it is important what the Committee concludes on this issue on Monday. I call on the MPs to come to this session, and this will not be a session for any political issues, because these are very important. I know that today in Chačka, which is why I answered, there are six missiles per station, it's not possible to respond to any major accident, if it happens, and I hope it doesn't. We find the last ten days when the harvest is done; if the city falls when the wheat is not taken off, God forbid, there will be no repairs. These three weeks, or four are the hardest because there's fruit, there's grain, and there's corn that should start soon, which my peasants would say, to cut off, which means class. So I ask that everyone who can do what they promised in the election campaign. The Socialist Party of Serbia will vote in favour of Mr Belic's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3628	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3629	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm not an expert on finance, so I don't know whether to support this amendment or ask the Ministry and Government to come up with some kind of moduso. According to the Hydrometeorological Institute, 29,000 hectares suffered damage from the city. God forbid it's the last damage this year, so it can be found, and it's from five to 100% damage. It's not that big of an asset that couldn't be paid off. Next year, we were, last year, the Committee on Agriculture, at the Bleach of Ljig, there is a hydrometeorological radar that warns when the city will arrive, what the clouds are and how to react to them. They told us about this, if five euros per hectare were to be paid into the Anti-Build Protection Fund, so that they could protect 70% with certainty from the city. That's enough. In this year, however, France celebrated 50 years without the city. These are so small funds, five euros per hectare; when a cherry or two fruit gardens destroy a city it costs as anti-urban protection on ten hectares of land. One more thing I have to say, these days the harvest is in full swing, and the mills and the baker's industry are trying to cheat on farmers and buy at a low price, claiming it's a low price of flour and they can't possibly fit in to pay more than nine or ten dinars. I'm just going to remind the MPs of something, and most of them probably know it, in 2003 it was a low crop of wheat because of the drought. From September 2003 to July 2004, wheat was 14 dinars of kilograms. So 14 dinars were at that time, and that's 200 euros per tonne of wheat, and no bakery was closed, no mill broke down to grind, they all worked, and they sold bread and pastries at the same price that is now. It's a shame that for four kilos of bagels, a baker can buy 100 kilos of wheat, out of which mills that grind, quite unfairly, get 60 kilos of flour. Gentlemen, there is something to be done and to limit the margins and profits earned by those who put very little money and risk and earn much. Before the war, so in 1941, in this country, mills were milling by 12%, and then they were taking away and telling them that they were cheating on the people, and then they were grinding 50%, fair and square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3630	The word has a finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3631	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a short time ago: an hour ago we were euphoric about the need to solve the diaspora problem and to separate 250 million from the reserve; half an hour ago we were also euphoric about minorities, to give them 100 million from the reserve, and now we're euphoric again, because they're a disaster to give back from the reserve 100 or 300 million. The message of this story is that all these are really justified reasons, but our budget simply has no financial capacity to further reduce its budget reserve. Of course, I'm not saying that the Assembly can't do that, someone's already quoted it, probably thinking that I meant it, but far from that, what I'm in charge of is that the government gives a proposal that's balanced in terms of being able to defend and implement it. It's up to you to decide whether you're going in one direction or another, but I'm telling you that further downsizing is jeopardizing the budget as such. By the way, by the way, apropo of this story that's on the agenda now, the reserves by definition are meant for these things, they are for it if something sudden happens, and I don't see why it's necessary to define them now. I'd put that aside, I'd go into those analyses, I wouldn't go from believing, and if that's really so much, then by nature we'd finance things from the reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3632	National MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3633	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. You know how, we have tonight and these days, for the past two or three days, the honor that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is with us. He may experience our amendments in one way or another, but he may say about amendments, that is to say, to advocate MPs that some amendments are accepted as euphoric... No, it's not, you said euphoric behavior an hour ago about the diaspora, so euphoric behavior about the proposed minority amendment. You can experience it any way you want, Mr. Minister, and explain how you want it, it's your right, but it's Parliament law to state what he thinks of some amendment. Then you'll find a solution, you'll see that you find a solution, and then you'll jump into your own mouth if that's the case or not. These people here say to find a solution before, so there won't be any damage, and you're telling us - when the city falls, when the crops are destroyed, then there'll be money to... You've completely replaced the thesis. The aim of these people who have advocated this amendment is to avoid harm, not to provide money to compensate. What's your goal? So, we've provided money in the budget, don't worry, when the city falls, when the summer is destroyed, we'll pay you. Of course, before that, the commission will go out to carry out an evaluation, etc., so what happens? These people are proposing an amendment to prevent that from happening. Please, take care, you are still talking to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Accept or do not accept, but without these additional explanations about the character of the amendments and the way MPs explain it. The general impression of the huge part of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who have been coming out these days is that the government does not respect the Assembly for the reason that only one minister, resorted, came here. I wish all the ministers had come and talked about the budget. You're here... Of course, as in our time, the late Mirko Marjanovic sat here and were all ministers, so they had to go out and explain everything that was said. It's government. The previous governments did it, believe it or not. There's no ideology here. I said that both Mr Djelic and Mr Dinkic were far better at defending the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget than is now being done. You can understand it one way or another, but ministers were present and defended, both Dinkic and Djelic. Whether we agreed to it or not, that's another thing, but they defended other ministers. It seems to me, and Mr. Djindjic was here, as Prime Minister, when he defended the budget. This is a strange government and a strange way, but without an appraisal of how MPs defend their amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3634	I have to notice that Mr. Cvetkovic, the finance minister, is with us all the time during this agenda period. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. Here you go. National MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a fragrant; a nice minister came out and said -- what I wrote, that's, there's nothing to talk about, let's go home. A man came out and told us nicely - about what we wrote no more discussion. I'm surprised, the people who must be making up this government come out and beat your brother dearly after this... There's something wrong with that fat one. As far as this amendment is concerned, it's not that simple. We can house as many missiles as you want and prepare as many radars and whatever of the technique, but without humans, there's nothing. In the territory of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, our country is protected by anti-building systems, some rockets are found, not every one of them is correct, the radar is doing great and the hydrometeorological institute of Serbia is covering well with its people, but there is no one to get out and launch the rocket. You know why? Because our country has determined that these people are worth 2,000 dinars in those six months. The only one ready to do that is that cowardly pensioner, cowardly one, because he doesn't get any of that pensioner and he has to get on that bike and run and try to stop. Do you know what it's worth? On the territory of the Municipality of Backo Topol only during this year's battle against this disaster, three missiles fell on people's houses. So people who do that can't do that. There's no solution but that. The solution is much deeper, but I expect that, Mr. Rajko, we'll sit down on Monday, and we'll admire it all together, so let's see how we get out... But I'm frustrated because of what I heard here -- what I wrote, there's no discussion about it. I don't think anyone should even come to tell us that here, we're going to blow each other's brains out and see how we move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3636	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 5 by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 15th Amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, and that part relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, which is part of Article 15, function 420, economic classification 451, which is subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. In column 6 (and it says -- budget funds) of 12 billion 505 million is replaced by 17 billion, and I will round 763 million, and in column 8 of 12,555,325,000 is replaced by 17.813,000, rounded. Classification 451 refers to subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, so we have in this context: subsidies to improve agriculture - 11 billion and 300 million, professional agricultural services - 205 million, and funds to buy agricultural products - a billion dinars. A billion dinars. Well, when we want to help agriculture, you need to understand that since 2004, the government, headed by Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, has started loans, short-term, long-term and non-refundable. I would now say in this 2007 -- this government started short-term, actually one-day loans. Why the one-day loans? Because these are one-day loans, which, for example, were released on Monday, a billion and a half dinars per nine banks, which lasted from 8 to 11 hours and was hitched off, because the money is gone. I'm sorry, what kind of subsidy and aid is there now for that troubled farmer in this farm who's been wearing sanctions on her back for ten years, so to speak, and now it's slowly systematic, I have to figure it out, but we're really destroying. My notice, Minister, for you, what I said two days ago -- the wheat began to harvest, do and the prices began to appear. The tycoons came out, the processors made a decision. One pays 10 dinars, the other pays 10.50 dinars and the third tops - 11 dinars. Normally, that farmer, the peasant, the paor welcomed the poor first dinar in 2007, does not ask, but rather gives whether there are 11 dinars in the Central Bank district or Northobanatski, Kolubarski etc. Ten dinars. Give me what you give, the family must live, the agricultural production must continue. Is that the exit you gave here, and I tried this amendment, as I said, for subsidies in public non-financial enterprises and organizations to increase something? But by the time I touched those loans that finally got here, the first one was, I can't remember, at the end of February, in early March, one day, in the short term. And for that government where the minister was Ivana Dulic-Markovic, I must say that all those who were with the G17 or members of the G17 had the privilege of obtaining loans, both short-term and long-term and non-refundable. We were then, as members of the Committee on Agriculture, on several occasions looking for a report in the districts, in municipalities, especially in those long-term loans and grants, to deliver to us the names and last names of these people (then the chairman of the Committee was Dr Zoran Mašić, normally and now), but we did not get them. Here's how they divided only one from the Agricultural Development Fund for irrigation systems. Ministers, don't let it happen to you again, but I will take the opportunity to ask it as a parliamentary question, because in the past 2006, three times after this pay phone I asked... The Fund for the Development of the Agricultural Irrigation System singled out 180 million dinars. The answer was they got three subjects, 60 million dinars. If it's known that this guy has to pay back 15 million dinars a year, because it's been four years, wouldn't it make more sense not to get three by 60, but 60 to get three million? We searched for the names and names of these people and we didn't get those three entities that got 60 million each, gentlemen, 60 million. Well, we talked here about Vitosevic and 15 million... However, in the end, the man who got 15 million dinars, bought cows, imported them, he bought them for 500 euros, sold something here to farmers for 1,500 euros, and you see, he got a loan, and even if I didn't say a non-refundable, well used it, he created a tycoon out of that initial capital. They also determine our price of wheat, and the processors are the ones who got into that system, and now the agricultural producer is on such branches as it is. You said here and promised that registered agricultural land, but on farmed surfaces, would receive 100 euros per hectare and that you had installed it in this budget, in fact, the draft budget for 2007. Believe me, I'll be happy to hear that's what individual agricultural producers got in 2007, as a registered agricultural land for their farmland. I'm really gonna be happy. Sown, the ones who took off they sown it in 2006. But, here, fill in, you're already correcting, now you're talking and a little bit of rope, not spreading, you're talking a little rope, Minister... But we'll welcome you here the same, there'll be budget rebalances, so just a little bit, we MPs from the SRS, remind you of what you've been saying here these few days and what you've been explaining to us. I'm not quite sure myself, gentlemen, that these 100 euros per sown area will reach the hands of farmers, parors and peasants. We need to turn around a little bit to see where it's going this time that you're heading now as a new government, you as Minister and Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry; are you still sure that this kind of budget that applies to agrarian will ever help a farmer, peasant, paor, individual agricultural producer, let's call it what we want. I'm one of those, I've got about 50 acres. I'm being watched by those from my village. I should have waited for 60 tons, or 60 thousand pounds or six wagons to catch one more storm, so when I found out the price and thought about having a man to whom I could bring the matter out and who promised to get it tomorrow or in a week's time, I'd finally decide to start the harvest tomorrow, but that's why I suffered, my part of the mid-Band County, meaning Zrenjanin municipality, the weather. We've touched some of these anti-urban stations. And that's what we had in that mandate, and we asked for a report, when there was a storm in the Central Bank County, when Srem suffered these disasters. And what did we get out of it? We got that the anti-urban stations were partly placed by people who weren't professionally trained to handle them, that they were anti-urban missiles and that simply... They either run out of time, or it just happens that at a given moment and they fail and don't get to the height they need and, thirdly, that these people are getting paid badly. Here, I'm telling you that the main anti-urban station Samosh, an anti-urban unit number 53 in my village, ran out of missiles, that I intervened and that they borrowed from another anti-urban station and we got three, because that part really, watching from Vienna when it comes, New Vienna, Old Vienna, always brings us the city, brings us that ice that destroys the harvest. The one who works there, who is a volunteer, gets 3,000 dinars a month, so they made a contract for this year, three thousand a month, provided he responds if he causes damage to that anti-urban station, is probably meant by those firing ramps, etc., and no one takes care to arrive in full time, to get those missiles far and medium range. So I should've intervened, called Samosh to have that boss approve of taking Melenzi from the construction station and bringing it to number 53. It's another example of negligentness, and you said here, Minister, that you have nothing left to spare from, but to know, when that farmer, the farmer, the farmer, the Parish, only one city cloud destroys what he's been doing and what he's invested in for eight or nine months, what's left for him to say than simply say: "Here, gentlemen, please, take the land, take me everything you can, and let my family live off the air." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3638	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3639	The dignity of the congregation has been violated because of falseness. I just want to say something, I'm going to respect the time that we all appreciate, and I'm not going to speak for long. Stop mentioning the G17 plus along the way and stop talking about it on purpose and with complete lies. As far as agricultural loans are concerned, I'm not going to talk extensively about how they were assigned and who was getting them, but please stop saying that whenever someone comes out, they also mention agricultural loans and that they were received by members of G17 plus. It's absolutely not that it's not true, but it's a complete and malicious lie. But in order not to argue about it, since I don't like empty debates and controversy, I invite you to the next one. Did you, sir, apply for a loan so you didn't get it because you were a member of a radical party? If so, we'd be happy to give you an answer to the question why you didn't get the loan. As a well-intentioned MP, as someone who supported the last government and as someone who had a Minister of Agriculture in the Government, I will be very happy to ask on your behalf why you didn't get the loan. I also propose to everyone else – in the future when you go out for a pay phone and when you start talking about people not getting credit for no reason, please mention the name and name and discuss the arguments. And we, I promise you, as good MPs who are obliged to inquire about every citizen whose rights have been violated, questioned and answered every specific question and for every particular name. I've heard these remarks a lot in my city, because a very small number of people in my town (we've talked about it more than once) have earned the right to get credit. When I started asking myself why it was so, so completely unrelated to what option they belonged to, it usually turned out that the problem was either the mortgage or the property or some other question that depended directly on the bank that approved the loan. Because, as you know, it's not government loans, it's bank loans. In order not to discuss this further, I propose and propose that we discuss concrete cases in the future. I understand that you applied, and I promise we'll give you an answer to the question why you didn't get the loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3640	Replica, People's MP Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3641	Gentlemen, my dear colleague, I did not come out here to talk about myself, about my farm household, but I went out to talk about those irregularities that existed when you from G17 plus, along with Minister of Agriculture Ivana Dulic-Markovic, shared credits for your membership in your party. Which is why you have not delivered to the Committee on Agriculture – and will now come out the chairman of the Committee and then the Committee President, Dr Zoran Mašić, to say – lists of people who have received special long-term and non-refundable loans. It is evident that Mr Vitosevic received 15 million dinars, buying cows, importing, selling, instead of selling for the 500 euros for 1,500 euros. We had this discussion here, remember, me personally and him. We proved you didn't deliver the list, except for him. Why didn't you deliver a list of those three that were used by the agricultural development fund for irrigation systems, 180,000,000, those three at 60,000,000? Gentlemen, do you know what 60,000,000 is? You know how much it would have been if you'd distributed it and got it 60 million each, or 120 million and a half. You didn't deliver those three subjects to us. I didn't go out for myself, whether I asked for a loan or not, that doesn't matter at all. Last year I didn't get it, and I didn't go out for a pay phone to say I didn't get it, for the simple reason that it's not an individual or one MP who deals with agriculture, but it's agriculture and it's the farmers of Serbia that matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3642	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3643	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure because I'm misread, deliberately or by accident, I believe it was intentional, because I think I've made myself perfectly clear and that everyone who wanted to understand me could understand me. Of course it's not about individuals, it's about agriculture in total. That is why I am not going to go into whether to give everyone 100 euros or 3,000 euros each, or whether to invest in those who are ready to compete with products and go to the European market. That's the story the agriculture ministers are going to discuss. Of course this isn't about individuals, it's about a reasoned debate. (President: Mrs Stojanovic-Plasic, you did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure, as MPs ask you to plead, it is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, just say which member you are calling. ( ) Article 101, violation of the dignity of the Assembly. When you tell the truth, then you hurt the dignity of the Assembly and I don't want to discuss it every time. I'm sorry, it's Article 104. It's just that when you're discussing it, then you have to discuss it in an argument. The arguments in this case are just cases for which you're going to say - that and that man were supposed to get credit because he was meeting all the conditions, and he didn't get credit. You can't possibly say that people didn't get loans or get credit because they belong to certain political parties, because it's a complete lie. In order to argue with argument, we need to know full information and data. I believe we'll all agree on that. When you provide such information that someone who has met all the conditions has not received a loan, then together we will advocate that such things do not happen. But if the loan just didn't get people because they didn't meet the conditions, and all my research, believe me, in my community they're saying that the conditions aren't usually met, and they're banking, because the bank's giving credit, to repeat once again, that we understand each other very well... In order for her to give credit, she must also have a deposit that that loan will be returned. It's not about subsidies, it's not about State grants, it's about loans. I believe it is clear and understandable to all citizens of Serbia, including you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3644	According to the amendment, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3645	Mr. Vice President, I'll use these two and a half minutes per amendment. At the same time, I will try to answer to Mrs Plassic, given that I was appointed president of the Committee in the previous session, and to present some truths. The truth is that it is the very ones that have been stated: that the Committee on Agriculture, of 46 held sessions in the past term, at three sessions officially, and most of all, unanimously, of all the members of the Committee, asked the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance to report to the Committee on the number of loans granted, the amount of cash and the funds recovered, because in the meantime some 2004 funds were to be recovered. It's said we can't get that, because it's in line with some financial laws. Then we suggested that we be given the information at a closed session of the Agriculture Committee. There was the best will of the board members to give these data at such a session. It wasn't done either. Then there was a commission, consisting of: Mr. Kronic from G17 Plus, Mr. Vlaovic and I, in front of the Serbian Radical Party; we went to the Ministry of Agriculture and got an insight into this documentation, which we had listed ourselves and selected about 15 agricultural producers who received more funds. According to a contract made between the Fund for the Development of Agriculture, the business bank and whoever received it, there was an obligation to verify, within half a year, the dedicated spending of funds and also the return obligation. However, I realized that the vast number of users that we recorded were able to visit; it would also make no sense, because they could be notified by other channels of our arrival, prepared any documentation, and gave up. So, if they were clean jobs and all that was given was used on purpose, then there would really be no reason for the members of the Committee, who are from all parties, not to present these data at a closed meeting. I've already brought up the parliamentary question. Today, since I will most likely now talk about my amendment, I will repeat that parliamentary question, and as chairman of the Committee, I will insist absolutely that we receive that information from all Members and the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3646	I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After break – 20.55]] We're continuing our work. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 15 amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3648	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry there isn't a Mr. Minister, but I think this is what the last hour, hour and a half of time has been debated in the National Assembly and how interesting it is for our citizens, that there has been a few words about agriculture. It is a large electoral body and one party, primarily the Democratic Party, has made great promises to agricultural producers, which is the 400m-euro budget. It is this amendment that I have submitted with the goal of increasing the proposed agrarian budget given by the government, which is why it is not clear to me that the same government and the minister, who is from the Democratic Party, did not accept it. We didn't make those promises as a party. However, given this electoral body, and in particular taking into account the overall situation in agricultural production, and how we advocate that the agrarian budget should be exactly 400m euros and more. But, gentlemen, you who have made promises to provide 100 euros per farmed or sown hectare, or you don't know how long it's been processed and sown or really recalculated. If that's according to the sown hectare, I'll just tell you how much this country is sowing, and it's about 1,100,000 acres of corn, about 500,000-600,000 hectares of wheat, per 200,000 acres of sunflower and soybeans, about 80,000 and even 100,000 acres of tail and under vegetables, there's about 300,000 acres of fruit under it. Suma sumarum, it's close to 2.5 million hectares of seeded surfaces. If you want to pay it with 100 euros, it should have been at least 2.5m euros on that basis alone. If this is added to that figure that the agrarian budget should normally cover, then you can't, nor can Mr. Minister who said so quietly yesterday that these funds are in this budget, and neither is Mr. Gavrilovic, who was determined to say that these funds were provided... They are not provided and I am waiting on Monday for the Minister for Agriculture on the Committee on Agriculture, the task is to present the Ministry of Agriculture's work programme and, above all, to the MPs, the members of the Committee on Agriculture, says the agrarian budget will be divided and from where the 100 euros will be covered per processing area. Therefore, we will inform the public as soon as possible. By the way, from this subsidy application, it is an economic classification of 451, it is financed by the subsidisation of production and the increase in productivity. The largest item is milk premiums, last year it was three billion and 100 million; then it was regressed for breeding cattle of about 450 million, then it was regressed for fertilizer and fuel, which you did not regress this year, and last year it was regressed by a billion and 300 million. Then, export incentives measures were also subsidized last year with 600m dinars. The rural promotion measures are financed with three billion and 350 million. If you just keep it, and I guess that's how long you have to keep it to support rural development, to finance non-commercial holdings, then you in this budget as it is given you don't have those funds. Since I have been told by my parliamentary group that the time for discussion is limited, I am truly sorry, I think I would have a lot to say, especially to agricultural producers, and I will especially be sorry if other parliamentary groups do not stick to it, and I am denied the right to talk about what I meant in my 15 minutes, but I will use certainly the next time to say it. I just want to say one more thing about the minister's relationship, which was inaugurated a month and a few days ago, according to MPs and above all according to the Committee on Agriculture. A public discussion was held Wednesday in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, where the minister was the director, on the topic -- the National Strategy, the agricultural development of the village. As the minister respects the Committee on Agriculture and all other MPs, and above all from the Committee, it is seen that we are neither invited nor informed. The truth works, although I was Mrs Dulic's political opponent both at the end and G17, the first presentation of the long-term strategy for the development of agriculture, whose promoter she was, was right in front of the Committee on Agriculture and in front of the MPs. It is expected that this is how the Minister of Agriculture behaves, to be here when the budget debate is being held and to explain exactly what was given. Finally, I have to repeat my parliamentary question in half a minute, and I will insist, and this applies to the finance minister and the minister of agriculture. It is about credit assets, both short- and long-term, which have been given since 2004. Please provide information ( since there were no final accounts, we do not know what number) how much money is allocated on the basis of short-term loans, how much on the basis of long-term loans, how much of the total amounts have been recovered so far; then, analytically, which the banks have provided and how much credit, short-term and long-term loans, and finally where these funds are recorded and who are using these funds, since they are clearly not returned to the agrarian budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3649	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 16th Amendment, MP Arsen Djuric submitted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3650	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, given that the government has accepted my amendment. I would like to express my great satisfaction that he has been accepted, since he will find his place next to Stara Planina, Tara, Zlatar and some other tourist centres and Zlatibor in the programme of development of municipal and road infrastructure. As the most visited tourist center, with all its capacities and resources, I think it deserves it, especially when considering the fact that a number of major infrastructure projects have been launched in 2006, both at Zlatibor itself and at the Tornik ski centre, so that the adoption of this amendment will allow for the completion of projects, but also for some new projects to be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3651	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 16 and 21 of the amendments were submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft budget law, i.e. the government, rejected the amendment. To read an explanation of the reasons for the refusal of amendments and try to show the MPs, and primarily the citizens of Serbia, how you treat the state and how you drive women and frogs: "Amendman is not accepted for reasons why the same is proposed that the means to implement an active employment policy instead of the 16th - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development are planned under Section 21 - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Ministrys Act is responsible for the affairs of the state administration relating to employment transferred to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, it is not possible for the means to implement the active employment policy measures, in accordance with the Employment and Insurance Act, which are implemented through the National Employment Service, to be provided for in the division of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. "Who should be doing these jobs if not exactly the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? When they are unemployed, the government will hire them, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Who did you identify these funds to? You have identified the funds of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development or, to translate, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. Mladjan Dinkic is the figure that will employ people. Here, man is capable of anything. When you look at his divisions in the ministry, over two and a half sides is Mladjan Dinkic, how he will spend funds from the budget. Even in the part where it is not understood, because Mladjan Dinkic knows only one thing about employment -- how to keep the workers out of work. That's proven. The workers of domestic banks that were in state and social property were out of work because of privatisation, and a large number of workers were added together, suma sumarum, about a million people. So many people Dinkic left without a job. Dinkic will now have four billion dinars to allegedly employ people. It is just a few divisions from the ministry, which should no longer be called this, but the ministry of Mladjan Dinkic, because it is possible that the powers where there is money predicted for itself and where it is possible to put even more into the pocket. So, under this section, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, read on Mladjan Dinkic, for example, 730 million dinars are projected to be part of a 40.750,000-dollar fund for the Republic Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development and Entrepreneurship. Part of the funds, worth 17.5 million, is intended for the Accreditation Body. Who does he credentials and where he credentials? Part of the funding, worth three million, is intended for the Action Fund, etc., not to read only this division, because there is much more to be said about it by the ministry. Now, look at this, part of the assets in the 116.502,000 appraisal is intended to lend to the loaning of domestic machinery and equipment, and the schedule of use of funds will take place under a special government act. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, around this special act of the government and all the divisions where there is one such way of spending budgets are being broken here and spears are being broken. This is where the MPs who defend the policies of this government and Mladjan Dinkic came out and said the funds provided for by the budget were spent in accordance with the Budget Law and it is not true that certain political favorites were receiving these funds. What does no one believe you? Because the reports don't exist. Because the criteria for granting these loans do not exist. Where are they? "Special Act of Government," who has insight into this special act of government? Not even the People's Messengers have any. Is that a party program, that special government act? I'm just going to give an example. The local self-government of Pogorec has its own agrarian fund of about 15 million dinars. The criteria under which these funds are allocated have been set by the local self-government unit, the committees. Members of that agrarian fund are obliged to report three months to the local self-government to whom they have and how they have identified these funds. What isn't Mladjan Dinkic doing? Well, he likes money. He likes money so much he can eat it if he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3653	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 21 amendments were submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Here you go, Mr. Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I begin my interpretation of the amendment, I must tell you that in these few days, following this discussion and your presentation, I have concluded that you are a bit bureaucratic, a little bit not human, and a little unprincipled political behaviour. Being a bureaucrat, it's a matter of your professional commitment, and I wouldn't have thought much of it. What you're not human, it's a matter of morality and it's your personal matter, I don't want to talk about it. But being politically unprincipled, I'd like to say a few words about why I think so. Mr. Minister, you've spoken from this pay phone, probably inspired by what Mr. Shami said in his best interest, that you'll take special care of the debt towards the wartime military people and the training of the children of the dead. And just by proposing this law, you did the opposite. Why is it the opposite? I would like to introduce the Members of Parliament to the amendment I have submitted. So, according to Article 5. Proposal for a Law split 21 - The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, function 10, economic classification 472, social security compensation from the budget of 9.293.319.000 dinars is replaced by 10.393.319.000. Now, why is this 1,100,000 difference, Mr. Minister, probably familiar to you, because we've already talked about it. It is a debt created against wartime military disabled people between 1999 and 2002, which the government of the Republic of Serbia took on as early as May 1st 2003 to pay off wartime wartime disabled people. I would say at once that this amendment... For that part, the amount of funds is 900 million. After a May 2006 protest, the government of the Republic of Serbia, namely Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, promised wartime wartime people that this debt would start to pay off from 1 January 2007 in the 24-month war. That, according to the debt we have, is about 75 million dinars a month. Because of the temporary financing situation in the first six months, we were truly patient, we had an understanding for the government. Why didn't the government start paying off that debt by the dynamics agreed last year? Looking at this budget, we've decided it won't happen on July 1st. I don't think that's correct, that it's a government fraud led by an old and new prime minister who knew about these agreements, and I suppose you knew, too, since these agreements were attended by representatives of your ministry who appeared in the first row of this assembly hall on the first day we discussed it. So you're saying you didn't know anything about it. There's a problem in your ministry -- there's either no communication between your associates or there's no communication between political parties that now make up the government. Given that all negotiations with us in the previous government were conducted by representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will be well-intentioned and I will think that it is only that there was no communication and that you did not know, and not that there is an evil intention for this population to be presented by a political party in the government as inconsistencies and by one who does not keep his word. So please, I admit that the government's argument is completely bureaucratic and I accept that as a perfectly logical explanation, because I have not made a proposal on which positions these funds can be taken from. But now I'm going to be free, so I'm going to tell you, Mr. Minister, that I suggest that these funds be taken from section 12, function 160, classification 621; that's called, just to be precise, the Ministry of Finance, some three billion and three hundred million dinars, you'll know what 621, some buildings and construction or something like that mean. The second part of this billion and 100 million is for health care. I've been wanting to point out once and for several times from this pay phone, I want to point out one illogicality and one injustice that has been happening to wartime wartime people since the 1990s, and that is that we are truly the only wartime disabled people in the world who are paying health care against the consequences of being wounded. What does that mean? For us, wartime military people, if we do not have another basis for social security, or health insurance, and costs borne by the Ministry, but at the level of health care of employees, which may be the highest level of health care in this country, but it is completely insufficient level of health care for wartime military people. I would like to warn you, Mr. Minister, of one fact – that if a healthy man is not lucky, he is hardly ill once or twice in his life, and there are many wartime military people who have been on health care continuously since 18 years of age, use medications and pay out of their resources all those medicines that are not on the positive list. In many cases, the cost of treating these people is much higher than their total income. I know dozens of cases only in Belgrade, so families who had to sell their cars, their houses or apartments, to move to smaller apartments, so they could bear the cost of treating their sons or brothers who died in the war. No matter how inhumane you are, no matter how much you don't understand these people's problems, I don't think you can go deaf about this proposal. And in order for that to be in line with what I'm expected to do, I'm going to tell you that I suggest that it be taken from the position of the Ministry of Health -- division 27, function 790, classification 424. I'll be free, Mr. Minister, to read you what this is all about. It's a division for specialized services and it's said that medical care funds are provided -- the health care costs of the person who's given the safety measure of mandatory psychiatric care and treatment of alcoholics, drug addicts, as well as the health care of foreigners, etc., so that I don't read to you and I don't take up time. I don't want to say at all that this isn't necessary, but if you compare why over a billion and 100 million dinars were given, and there's no 200 million for this population made up of wartime military disableds, I question logic and ask if there are more important people in prisons, who are on mandatory treatment, but wartime disabled. So, Mr. Minister, I'll be free to assume that this is just a mistake and that it's not a bad intention, that it's not an evil intention, and that I hope that within the shortest time, you will find an opportunity. Let me tell you right now, I've proposed 200 million, and since that's a new item in the budget... Unfortunately, since 1988, thanks to the political leadership at the time, which did not assume that in 1990 there would be a war on these premises, from a special law dealing with the rights of wartime wartime people and families of fallen fighters pulled out health care and returned to the general laws... We see now what this has led to. So the health care level at the time was high, completely satisfactory and acceptable for this population, but today the level of health care is very low and is not acceptable and can no longer meet the basic needs of this population. I know you're not very interested in this, but what you're going to do, that's it. There's one more thing I'd like to tell you, Mr. Minister, that receiving military disableds and a family of fallen fighters is not social contributions, no matter how hard you try to keep us in the social service. Although I also pointed out to you the night the government was elected, when the Ministry Act was passed, that it was illogical for wartime disableds to be placed in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, you did not get the strength, although we had suggested this earlier, to add the term "and the issue of veterans" to the ministry and thus to isolate this area from the social community. Why does it matter, Mr. Minister? The receipts we get are damage compensation and national recognition, so they're not social contributions. When it comes to compensation for damages, you will agree with me that not only can anyone who has done damages always decide on the terms of payment, the amount to be paid and how to pay. So I think that we are absolutely right and that you should consider this for one more reason – you as a partner in the coalition government, regardless of which party you came from, must take care of what your coalition partners promised last year. I think you'll understand that, in order not to put Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Dejan Michael in a very awkward position, because if this isn't accepted in a month or two, they're going to have to go ahead of the wartime disabled, who, as always for their rights to fight in the street, protesting in front of the government, to explain why they didn't fight for what they promised. And I also want to tell you that in the third part of my amendment, I have proposed that in the division that is scheduled for the work of the fighting-distribution organisations the funds increase to 72 million and, right away, I suggest that it be taken from section 12, function 160, classification 621. Why does it matter? Why did I at first characterise you the way I did? In your speech that you gave after the principle debate on this law ended, you said that we had to take care of the children of the dead fighters and that we had to give them scholarships for school. It is precisely, my dear, that what you have proposed, that the reduction of funds for the area directly challenges the action of the Association of Wartime Military Disabilities of Serbia, which, through the budget, finances every month 120 scholarships of children of fallen fighters and wartime wartime peoples. Do you want me to read you what part of it is? Just a little bit, so division 21, function 10, classification 481, is about the amount of 39,443,000 dinars. In my amendment, I proposed to keep the amount from last year, we are not asking for an increase, because if you reduce the amount of funds, you will question exactly this action led by the Association of Military Disabilities of Serbia. I have to say, there aren't many economic operators in this country, except for the state, who are willing to finance this population. The only one who does so is the owner of the Mona fashion house, Mr. Djordje Momirović, who for the third year has been financed by seven children of wartime wartime disabled and families of fallen fighters, and every month for 28,000 dinars, or 4,000 dinars per child. I would just like to tell you that I have suggested that in the same division in the same function, a new economic classification is added at the end -- housing for wartime military people, members of the families of fallen fighters from the wars after 17.8.1990, and the total amount of 380 million. Why is this important, Mr. Minister? In one presentation, I said that the state of Serbia has not built a single apartment for wartime wartime disableds in the past 15-16 years, only by the government of Japan's donation of the Japanese state built 206 apartments, with the help of local self-government that allowed, about 30% of that donation, free construction land and freed up the utility of these apartments. Since I'm running out of time, I'd just like to ask for another minute. Just to tell you, Mr. Minister, on the promise of Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Velimir Ilic, 120 apartments have begun to be built.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3655	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Parliament Speaker Mr Oliver Dulic has asked us to work without television transmission from 18 hours due to the transfer of a game, with the promise that the delayed transmission will be immediately upon the end of the game. The game is long over, and on the second programme is under way at the Budvanski Festival. Please, Mr. Bradovich, to see what this is about, to send a secretary, if he's here, and see if it makes sense to keep working or not, because it's obvious that Mr. Dulic has deceived us. I just met him, he said he was going on some TV, so maybe he booked that people who watch political shows are watching him, not the National Assembly, so for that reason we're not on the air right now. Since it's usually a delayed transmission, I'm going to talk about this amendment, and I expect you to find out in the meantime what it is and let us know exactly when and if we have that delayed transmission. (President: If you'll excuse me, we won't count on this time, I don't think Mr. Dulic is on another program, one of the others. We'll run the check immediately, and within the next 15 minutes, we'll get the information. If that's not what it was supposed to be, then of course we'll interrupt the session. ) Thank you, but I didn't think Mr. Dulic was on the second program. I made it clear... But, let's not waste any time on that, you said you'd give me my time, I hope you will. So we've submitted an amendment to Section 5, Section 23, Chapter 23, and function 560 and suggested that it be deleted. Of course, when I read this like this, people who aren't able to read the budget and who don't understand enough in this matter think -- so what does it erase and what does it mean? So let me explain briefly what this is really about. It is the fact that you in this department and in this chapter, the function proposed for erasing, provided for funding for the Environment Protection Agency and for this agency you provided for 16.113,000 dinars. For those 16 million, ladies and gentlemen, it was possible to make, say, at least one kindergarten, and then maybe what happened today in Belgrade wouldn't have happened if the kindergartens had accumulated, that the retailes from today had leveled the prices in private and state kindergartens. What's this agency doing anyway? The Agency for the Protection of the Environment, as well as all the agencies that you have formed through all the laws passed in the previous assembly, has the same function as the Ministry, i.e. the parallel bodies of the Ministry. Why have we submitted the amendment? For three reasons. First of all, it's the principled position of the SRS that all these agencies, commissions, committees, I don't know what you called all your bodies, offices, etc. Without a constitutional basis, they're unnecessary. Because if several agencies, commissions, etc. are formed along with one ministry, then the question is what does the minister and what does the ministry do. So, I know that when the minister accidentally comes to his senses of answering what the MPs say, what was written in the government's explanation would be said that this had to be predicted because the Environment Protection Agency was foreseen by the Ministry Act. So we know that, but we are in principle against the existence of agencies, and that is why we propose to delete this and, of course, delete the existence of the agency and the law in which it is intended. The next reason to delete this is because there is no legal basis for forming these and these agencies. You know, yesterday, Mr. Martinovic, as a professor of administrative law, gave you a short lesson about what the authority of the administration is, what the ministry is, what the agencies are. You should have remembered that the agency cannot be classified into the authority of the administration and that it is not, and therefore there is no constitutional and legal basis for the existence of any agency within the ministry. The next reason is the actual state of play, which means that you form an agency to fulfill the wishes of your party officials, worthy party people. Whenever it happens (this was in that previous government, it will be very soon, and it may already happen in this, since you have some strange relations) situation that something cannot be arranged in the government who will do what, who will get this job or that job, faster and better done changes and supplement some law, agency, man from the agency director's party, good pay, nice work, calms down passion, and we move on, to some next agency. The fourth reason why it should be deleted is that most of these agencies, the committees, the commissions you've formed, for which you predict and allocate money, don't do what you've provided for them by law. So it is 16 million dinars of Serbian citizens, as I remind you that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is filled with Serbian citizens. You wrote here in your explanation that for this Environment Protection Agency, among other things, the funds foreseen for the Agency's work will be provided from its own incomes and donations from international organisations. It's not here. You only have funds secured from the budget, in other words from the pockets of Serbian citizens. So how do you even charge the budget? Do you know that Serbian citizens are wondering why they already pay the second war on property taxes? They still haven't received solutions to determine the amount to be paid. What does that mean? They say on TV and in newspapers -- pay the first war by the end of February based on last year's solution, so now pay the second one based on last year's solution, and if you get the solution, it turns out you didn't pay enough, then the state will tighten your interest. So, you're going to see how much money you need, and on that basis, you're going to determine the property tax. How do you keep filling the budget? What happens now, say, to the Belgrade bus station? It's a company where millions of dinars are poured into every day. So the money's over. Now the BAS's Office of Income is in charge of three million euros. They proved, and have a first-degree solution, that the amount of threem euros in VAT was paid by carriers using BAS services, but of course, you brought an executive solution and said the appeal did not delay the implementation of the solution. Why are you doing this? Because you know who you were planning to buy BAS, and now you need to bring them to the beggar stick, as the RK "Belgrade" was brought in. Once again, who knows how many hundreds of people are out of work, you will fill the budget and by the end of this year you will be calm. In the meantime, NIS, EPS and you, too, keep your chairs, citizens of Serbia are getting more and more jobless, more and more difficult to live, less and less wages, no production. Of course, it's not the subject of this government. There were mostly comments here that there are no ministers in the O.R. today, and these days, let's talk about the budget. Of course, they're gone, ministers are walking from television to television, and there's all this nonsense going on, so God saves you. So Gilas comes out and says, quotes him, "I didn't miss much that I didn't sit in parliament. There is something called to the Rules of Procedure, as if it were the most important." So, Gilas thinks he's spending money on the citizens of Serbia from the National Investment Plan without coming here to the National Assembly, not to take bills, as you're used to. Since the five-October revolution, you have failed to account here once for the citizens of Serbia and this parliament, because you never had a final account. Or, Bubalo said, a journalist asked him how the DS and DSS would now reconcile on the topic of international relations when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and he said -- we agreed on what would happen if there were possible individual recognitions of Kosovo, but the public should not know. So you're acting strangely, gentlemen of the government, your budget is not good. I hope so. I don't expect you to... I see the minister is about to fall asleep, has no idea where he is, no idea what he's talking about. Mr. Minister, I don't expect you to accept this amendment, but I ask the MPs to consider voting, to release the budget of the ballast, and, since we have principledly invested amendments on all the agencies that you've predicted, I hope that some of my colleagues will give up on further discussion, because the essence is exactly what I've just presented.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3657	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 5, the 24.6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 25 amendments were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's Messenger Radisa Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. A bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget, which also speaks of these agencies that only draw funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This amendment in Article 5 proposes to delete Chapter 25.2, since this redistribution identifies funds for the operation of the Anti-doping Agency, or as entertainers would say, of another agency for all and all things. The common thing is that a bunch of agencies that live today in most ministries or independently actually represent a way to waste people's money needlessly. Couldn't all these jobs have been done by some people from the Department of Sports and Youth or some person from the Ministry of Health? Like this, an unnecessarily unnecessarily complete ministerial apparatus. Our sport is currently on the rise, but thanks to enthusiasm and the means of competitors and clubs themselves. That the state is right, that there are laws, including the law on sports, you could also predict significant incomes from the fines of those clubs and individuals who use illegal drugs. Worse still, the agency will exist, not to deal with doping control, but to settle wages and the rest from the Republika Srpska budget. For this agency, believe it or not, the budget envisions as much as 90 million dinars, i.e. 1,117,000 euros. When we think about how many other similar agencies exist in Serbia, which are on the back of the people, then the sum is far greater. I wish this money was spent helping young sports talents travel to competitions around the world, to be bought sports props, equipment and the like. For salaries, allowances and benefits to employees, you have allocated 26 million dinars, which means that monthly allocations for this purpose are 2,100,000 dinars. If we take average incomes of 40,000 dinars, which is really high average, it turns out that 50 people work there a day. What are they actually doing? They're not doing anything. The Minister of Sports, otherwise cut short in engagement to build as good and firm a co-operation for NATO as possible, to remind you, are those who bombed us for 78 days and who are currently unloading our country, will be difficult to answer this question. To go back to the young talented athletes who needed these financial resources. They make their own money, they pray for sponsors; when they go to the competition to sleep in cheap hotels or in our countrymen, they feed on kiosks, but still achieve a significant result. And then everything's nice, Kostunica and Tadic tell congratulations to the winner, take pictures together, award some cash prize, and it's over. Some officials, however, also know how to make it harder for our athletes to win. As soon as they show up at some game, our catastrophic losses. I can't tell you what these games are, you'd immediately remember what kind of function they're dealing with. It wouldn't be weird if these agencies had a new affair, maybe a doping affair. People do things, they chase results, they chase qualifications for international competitions, so it's also possible to implement that famous idea known as stealing. It's funny that you haven't set up another agency like this within the Department of Sports, such as the fans' agency, a rock-throwing agency, a jumping agency, and that sort of thing. Point these funds and into undeveloped rural areas, in the semi-region of villages, build sports grounds, give the initial impulse to a child to start playing sports, instead of allowing the spending of these funds on the salaries of dozens of people. Since we're taking care of the weather, I hope my colleagues will also honor our agreement and will talk about the agencies as much as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3659	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 20th and 26th amendments, with corrections, were submitted by MP Nadika Momirov. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with corrections, legally possible. The word is Nadia Momirov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3660	The amendment I submitted on behalf of the G17 Plus MP group concerns the financing of the Exit Music Festival in Novi Sad and additional funds for the reconstruction and adaptation of the Children's Theatre in Subotica. The amendment was not accepted by the government with the reason that funds for financing the Exit Music Festival are located on the economic classification of 451 - subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations. On this occasion, I would like to give a well-intentioned criticism to Mr. Finance Minister – if we had the opportunity to hear the presentation of the budget at Parliament clubs, I might have the opportunity to ask a question and get an answer, then I would not have submitted such an amendment. If so, we believe that these funds are provided for in economic classification 451, yet we believe that the Exit Music Festival deserves to have a special item in the budget. I also have an objection that the second part of the amendment was rejected, that is, the reconstruction of the Children's Theatre in Subotica. I will, however, explain to the MPs, which is why I expect them to vote for this amendment and thus make it an integral part of the budget. The Exit Music Festival in Novi Sad, in addition to being one of Serbia's most recognizable brands, and besides bringing together a large number of young people not only from Serbia but from around the world... In England alone, 10,000 tickets were sold for this year's festival. There are still a few arguments why this amendment should be adopted. Significant funding is being poured into the republican budget during the festival. Only tax is about 20 million dinars. The Exit Music Festival employs around 2,000 people on temporary work. More than 1,500 journalists are accredited for Exit every year, talking about a significant promotion of the festival, Novi Sad, Vojvodina and Serbia. Also, a few more data. The British weekly recommended last year Exit as the best festival in the world to be reminded of that year. The second most visited site is also the site of the EXIT music festival. In May of this year, the top-list of the world music festivals Exit took fourth place. Finally, the information that phenomenally illustrates how Exit changes the image of Serbia in the world: when you type in Google's largest global search engine, you get 1,450,000 units, when you type in the Exit Festival you get 2,130,000 units, when you type in the Siget Festival you get 1,480,000 units, at the Guca Festival 13,500 units, you get 33,000 units on the Kopalnik, and if you type in Ratko Mladic you get only 806,000 units. All this says is that the Exit Music Festival has a very important role for Serbia. These funds will be used to invest in the fortress infrastructure, to invest in the camp's infrastructure, to invest in production, to meet European standards for performers' performances and to invest in accommodation facilities. As for the Children's Theatre in Subotica, something short on theatre to say. It was founded in 1934 as one of the first puppet theatres in the country. The equipment and interior of the theatre were last restored in 1971 and is currently one of the oldest in Serbia. The plays are played in Serbian, Hungarian and Croatian. 250 shows are performed annually. Through school and kindergarten, 35,000 children attend shows annually. The theatre received numerous awards at domestic and foreign festivals. Unfortunately, no disabled child can enter the Children's Theatre and watch a little play. This project provides for reconstruction in terms of creating equal opportunities for all children. I'll tell you just a little bit about the reconstruction and adaptation of the Children's Theatre that started last year; the funding from the 2006 budget was defined and used to reconstruct the theatre. 32 million dinars of republican funds were allocated to the Children's Theatre in Subotica. Within that value, works that represent the most necessary interventions in the construction sense and in terms of the functioning of the scene and hall from the point of view of the safety of children, actors and theatre staff are agreed. In particular, works were carried out to repair the roof structure and roof coverings due to the leak of the facility; works on the decommissioning of old chairs and other equipment, including part of the stage technique which posed a danger in the fire and in terms of stability of the elements of the scene. Also, the acquisition of new stage technique, chairs and other outdated elements of the scene from the hall was carried out. In order for this investment to be successfully completed, it is necessary to provide additional resources in order to complete the work. It is necessary to provide funding for thermotechnical and other installations, so that children do not freeze during the winter performances, step mechanics, stage installation, galleries, fire curtains, as an important part of the overall child safety system, and other accompanying works that make up the continent with agreed works. Only after the performance of all these works will it be said that the Children's Theatre in Subotica meets the minimum criteria for child safety in the facility. So I ask all MPs to make a positive statement about this amendment in the voting day, so that we do not forget how much we all need Exit. Only young people can get us out. Our future is in their hands. Also, these children's theater funds are exclusively for the joy of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3661	By amendment, MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3662	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must say that I have nothing against Exit and similar festivals, but I do mind that since 2000 it has been a measure of success and government, but also local self-government has become exactly who will bring a more quality and stronger group from abroad to Serbia, who will make a bigger concert in Serbia, as if everything is fine in Serbia, we have solved all the problems and now we just have to entertain people with those time musicians from the white world. I wouldn't mind what Miss Momirov suggested here if she had also been proposed and increased, say, funds for refugees, to solve the refugee problem in Serbia. Fifteen days ago, I asked a parliamentary question here, which I didn't get an answer to, I probably won't get it within that business period, but I just want to say that the situation of refugees is extremely difficult in Serbia and that there is a tendency of these governments that are constantly to reduce funds from the refugee budget from year to year. For example, in 2005, 1,300,000 dinars were allocated for refugees, in order to reduce that figure to 931,000,000 in 2006 and then this year to 905,000. There is a tendency to cut funds for refugees in Serbia. At the same time, these people are not offered integration into Serbian society, they are moving from one centre to another, and we see that there is the greatest likelihood that these collective centres will definitely end. What also bothers is that refugees are scheduled for a fixed cost of 11,000,000 and for services under contract 16.6 million. Be careful, those favors, according to the treaty, what they predict. The budget is explained, within the framework of the current expenditure of the Refugees Commissioner: the majority refers to fixed costs (such as heating costs, municipal costs and the cost of renting a business space), as well as to contract services (such as translation services, software production, public information and tenders and advertisements). Please, 16.6 million dinars are spent on translators, on software production, on advertising and information to the public when refugees are involved! If this government is harmful to Serbia, I'll show you on one case. The Taratex company from Baja Garden doesn't work for several years. Last year, in September, the government adopted a social programme for the company. According to the decision, ten average gross earnings were to be paid to employees in the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the social programme. It was also meant to be done on a one-time basis, so that they would sort of take care of themselves and that the company would then go to auction, or to privatise. One war was paid in December at 10% and a few more, also 10% in the next few months. I ask a parliamentary question: what about this contract, or the agreement or decision of the previous government, and this one is in continuance with the previous one, and when will this social programme for the company "Tarateks" from Bajina Basta be realized? I wouldn't take any more time. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3663	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Information: Since the sports transmission was interrupted and the delayed transfer of the Assembly was due to technical problems, the transfer starts at 23 hours, but we made an agreement to continue the work, because at 23 hours they will go where we left off and the viewers will have the opportunity to see what today's working day looked like. On Article 5, 30 amendments were submitted by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment asking that 30, chapter 30, chapter 30, function 160, economic classification 463 - transfers to other levels of government, in column 6 instead of an amount of 88 million dinars. You can see from this that I am asking for the amount allocated to the Kosovo and Metohija Fund, which is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, to be tenscores. The amount of 8,000,000 dinars would be intended for capital investments in Kosovo and Metohija and would be spent under the programme of the Committee on Kosovo and the Metohija of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Kosovo and the Methodology of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? The Serbian Radical Party believes that this move would show the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia primarily to the international community, and then to the Albanian population that makes most of the population in Kosovo and Metohija that the intentions of the Republic of Serbia are to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in its composition unequivocal. You have noted that I am asking the amendment for the money to be paid to the Kosovo and Metohija Fund, precisely because, among other things, the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija could monitor how this money is spent. You are aware that individuals are using a chaotic situation in Kosovo and Metohija to hunt in the murky and against the law for certain good. Here, above all, I think of the Coordination Centre at the time when Mr Nebojsa Covic was headed. There was no better situation during the chairmanship of Mrs. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić's Coordination Centre. The abduction of Kosovo and Metohija continues and thanks only to Russia's firm stance, which stood in the protection of Serbian national interests by defending the UN Charter and the principle of non-violence of borders, insisting on respecting UN Security Council Resolution 1244, Kosovo and Metohija remains in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Those who can still be thanked for this are the Cosmet Serbs, who have remained in spite of intense pressure to continue living on their homeland and thus found themselves on the first battle line. As long as the Serbs are in Kosovo and Metohija, the state of Serbia will have an argument to seek the preservation of cosmetic territory in its composition. However, more than 200,000 Serbs were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. A number of them came through in the meantime, but most of them didn't. There are many who are in collective centres where in one room, small squares, live babies of eight months and 80-year-olds, in extremely inhumane conditions. They all have a desire to return to their centuries-old hearths. This is why I submitted this amendment. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia to make much more of an engagement to rebuild these people's ruined houses, in which exiled Serbs could return. I know that restoring the home to returnees is not enough, they need to guarantee both security and freedom of movement, and this cannot be done without co-ordination with KFOR and UNMIK, which, under Resolution 1244, have the mandate to secure the environment and freedom of movement for all. And that's going really hard. That is why I propose that houses and apartments be built in Serb enclaves, give in to returnees for use, not property, until conditions are created for their return to the places from which they were expelled. I think this should be considered because every Serb more in Kosovo and Metohija is a voice more against independence. Of course, Kosovo and Metohija are not only threatened by the rights of Serbs, but also by Roma, Gorans, Muslims, Turks, which is why I believe that some of these funds should also be directed towards solving their life problems. If you want me to be extremely honest, 90% of the Albanian population lives extremely badly, in extreme misery and poverty, and only 10%, those who are close to the terrorist peak, live in economic well-being. As for the principle of the government of the Republic of Serbia on the even financing of the region, I ask you, Mr. Minister, how is it possible that the Kosovo Administrative District has or receives 21,003,000 dinars, Pecki 6,168,000 dinars, Prizrenski 5,819,000 dinars, Kosovo's 347,720,000 dinars, you see the difference, and Kosovo's administrative district is 748,685,016 dinars. Kosovo's and Kosovo's management district of economic classification 14 states: the untapped privatisation income from earlier years - 336,036,000 dinars, i.e. 336,036,000 dinars, by chance or intentionally the same amount. I'm looking for an explanation of what kind of privatisation means this is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3665	National MP Radojko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3666	All I have is information that the transmission just started. All interference has been removed, transmission goes directly, and the delayed portion will be broadcast later, so MPs and viewers have the opportunity to see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3667	Mr. Obradovic, we thank you for your positive information. The People's MP, Plasimir Stević, came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have come to support my fellow counterpart, Zvonko Mihajlovic, as regards the increase in the amount of investment and investment in Kosovo and Metohija through economic development, as it is one of the guarantees for the survival of Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I particularly support the insistence that programmes, investment projects in the area of Kosovo and Metohija go to the proposal of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, through the Ministry, for control and insight into spending. Also, Mr. Minister, one of the reasons I came forward is this: I have carefully followed the budget debate, in detail, and if we look at the stenograms, I want to ask you, you have not said a single sentence in the principle debate, in particular, about Kosovo and Metohija. What's in it for, how much funds are being allocated, why are they being singled out? This is what the people of Kosovo and Metohija expected from you, and they expected in the migration. What's the problem? Are you ashamed, didn't you want to, whether you won't or is the problem...? Today you said one sentence, shyly, that the National Investment Plan is going towards Kosovo and Metohija. Is it an international mentor's order from the West that you should not talk about investing and discharging funds for Kosovo and Metohija, or are there two governments, and one of them is in favour of singleing out and investing in Kosovo and Metohija, and the other have a reserve on that? I think it was your obligation, if you're not, and we can take a look at the stenograms, it would be good in the final word to say it. For the sake of the public and citizens, above all in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs and other non-Albanian populations and those in rural areas, I would like to inform that we have passed the Law on Ministrys and that the Law has educated the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, in order to function the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in the fields of education, health, social policy, culture, infrastructure and telecommunications. The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija performs tasks of state administration relating to the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, where items are listed, etc., among other things, co-operation with the Commissioner for Refugees in the work concerning internally displaced persons. I must say, Mr. Democrats, your policy towards Kosovo and Metohija and the people of Kosovo and Metohija has a lot of hypocrisy and demagogy. There's significant resources here, but "Politics" is 20. The 6th year announced that collective centres are being shut down, saying that there are 89 collective centres in Serbia, 72 in central Serbia, and 17 in Cosmet. Furthermore, the UN High Commissioner is reportedly seeking to abolish collective centres in Kosovo and Metohija, which is a clear message to Serbia and collective centres in Kosovo and Metohija -- pack suitcases and belly after bread. What is illogical and what is contradictory is an explanation of why collective centres are abolished. Refugee centres are closing because these facilities are owned by individual companies that are rapidly privatised. These companies therefore require that these facilities be returned to them. The second reason is that the conditions in those centers are pretty bad. Is it possible that solid funds are allocated to Kosovo and Metohija without taking care of displaced persons? Furthermore, the maximum amount of funds identified by the budget is intended for transfers to other levels of government, relating to current transfers to southern Serbia, AP Kosovo and Metohija (paying salaries to local self-government, civil protection, material costs to schools, current transfers to southern Serbia, etc.). Also, the funds, in line with the government's conclusion, are provided for compensation for social protection from the budget (feelings for disability, child benefits, etc.). Six months late for payment, and last year's budget reportedly was in surplus. When it comes to the National Investment Plan, you remember the pompous announcement by the government of the democratic bloc that 31 million will be invested from the total amount of funds for Kosovo and Metohija through projects. I don't know where in the central part of Kosovo and Metohija is invested and the dinar, to be literal where any nail is nailed. In the Moravian region, too, something is being done in the northern part of Mitrovica, and the plan is that around 15m euros will be invested from the adoption of the budget. In temporary funding regulations for the first six months... Although the plan was to build a settlement in Novi Badovac of 70 houses, to make the situation tragic and sad, it was argued that UNMIK and the current assembly of the municipality in Pristina did not want to give permission. That was an explanation. I must say that UNMIK and the Albanian municipality in Pristina have issued a permit, and through the Interim Financing Regulations, we have downloaded the item, and we have downloaded the item for the construction of the Gracanica road - Laplje Selo, which clearly speaks about the relationship of this democratic authority towards Kosovo and Metohija. Now to explain to the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija: The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is defined three billion and 497 million, and last night public information means that the government subsequently identified two more billion; the Fund for Kosovo and Metohija - 3,704,000; for the former work of the Coordination Centre - 1,200,000, and these items that the colleague spoke of the districts and what is allocated to salaries in education and health means that they are solid funds. I hope that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, otherwise the initiative was from the SPS in the previous period, that this ministry is being formed, that with the formation of the Ministry, we will have real insight and that the spending of all funds will be controlled. Also, I would like to request an explanation and explanation from the minister and his associates regarding the status and treatment of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. If the budget contains the districts, why the municipalities were removed, and they were taxed in 2004, as well as all municipalities in Serbia. In 2005, something was quick, Dinkic... Let me put it this way, the municipalities are down and he said the funds go through the Coordination Centre. It was the same for 2006. Does this mean, and all this stuff I've been saying, that it doesn't invest in the space of Kosovo and Metohija until it's known who it's going to be? It is likely that representatives of UNMIK and KFOR are investing in the development of Kosovo and Metohija. However, everything they have invested in the past eight years has been invested in the benefit of Albanians and to the benefit of Serbs. As an MP from Kosovo and Metohija, I would like to say, given that the issue of defining Kosovo and Metohija's status is entering the final stage, that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are not the problem Riza Halimi and what he declares; and the tendencies and demands, wishes and suggestions of Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia have been well known since 1968, when the biggest process of eviction from Kosovo and Metohija, 1981, 1994, 1995 and 1996. We are concerned about the relationship between the state of Serbia, the current authorities and the relationship of individual parties with the Kosovo and Metohija issue. That is why I am taking the opportunity to ask a few questions that rightly ask Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. What in the case of a undesirable and for us a negative solution to the cosmetical question? What do you do in that case? Do the government or state structures have a plan for that day after? Is it under these conditions to live and survive in Kosovo and Metohija? Should parallel institutions be organised in this case? To what extent can the Serbian state be expected to help? There are also a number of other questions and dilemmas in the minds of the cosmetian Serbs to which answers are sought. Undoubtedly, the greatest responsibility for the situation and what will happen in the area of Kosovo and Metohija is borne by the Prime Minister and Prime Minister, and certainly this high home, this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3669	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of Serbian Radical Party MP Zvonko Mihajlovic, which refers to the necessity to raise funds for Kosovo and Metohija is a serious amendment and should be seriously considered when voting to vote for this amendment. This is necessary for the government and this congregation to show what is so - called. to the international community that we really have strong and serious intentions for Kosovo and Metohija to remain in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, and to show those people who live downstairs that we have no intention of leaving them in no way at all. You know, while we do some other things, representatives of that so-called. international communities and how they deal with the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately in a way that does not suit us. Here, I read in tomorrow's Justice -- Albanians paid two million euros, the mafia bribed Ahtisaari. I will read only one sentence: "German intelligence services of the DMB have found that twom euros have been transferred to the private account of UN special envoy for Kosovo and Metohija Martti Ahtisaari, and that several times millions of cash amounts are reported to be moving up to 40m euros." I've been going through the entire Justice tomorrow, although this has been discussed, I've found a lot of quality texts, but I haven't found any votes from any of the officials in the Republic of Serbia anywhere. You see how some don't save money to take away Kosovo and Metohija, and we here for the budget are thinking whether or not we will accept the amendment of counterpart Mihajlovic, who, for your information, lives in Strpc and knows perfectly what conditions Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3671	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On article 5, 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić.. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has rejected this amendment. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, 40 amendments were submitted by MP Zdravko Topalović. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has rejected this amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 48 amendments were submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has rejected this amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3672	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have tabled an amendment relating to Section 48, paragraph 5, and I suggest that the 48 and 360 functions be deleted. The citizens who are listening to us right now probably don't mean much, but it's about the famous Lustration Commission. The Serbian Radical Party is, of course, against the Law on Lustration and, of course, against the Commission for examination is responsible for human rights violations. This is our political position, and I hope that we will succeed in a few sentences very clearly to explain it by just reminding you of parallel examples from all Eastern European countries. So what is the basis of lustration, which as a process dictated by only one centre that came from Western Europe and the overseas countries, is what criteria were important in determining who it was that violated human rights and who were victims of human rights violations. The most famous model is the model made by the Czechs under the Law on Lustration that they passed in 1991. Generally, in all Eastern European countries, the basic criterion in lustration was co-operation with secret services. The Czech model was recognizable by its reference to the period and to the people who served the communist regime and were ideological associates in the period from 25 February 1948 to 17 November 1989. If we apply the example of the Czech lustration in the case of a transition Serb society, then the whole government is at stake. Let's move on, one of the most famous lustration models is the lustration model in East Germany. The same criteria and the same basis were therefore co-operation with the famous Stasi. There were 90,000 people in Stasi, and there were 170,000 informants, and they were all lustrated. The question arises, if we were to apply this example of Stasi and co-operation with Stasi, who here would be the one who would carry the lustration and would remain in the ruling furniture someone who would be excluded from that lustration. Therefore, there is no fair lustration and the SRS supports these very examples from the parallel practice of Eastern European countries, because, unfortunately, what used to be true in ancient Rome, and taken from the ancient Greeks, lustration comes down to pure rematch and cleanliness. Mr. Minister, then perhaps you'd better build a new Goli Island. There are people here who can testify how it was on the Gol Island and how, from the belief that they were helping the owners of that institution of the Golog Island, they were passing away, so it would be a good thing to hear them, that their days were passing on the Gol Island. But, come on, maybe the SRS, maybe I'm wrong about all of this, let's leave our political position, because we really think that elections are the only basic criterion that will determine who breaks anything and that there is an individual criminal responsibility for every violation of the law. The Serbian Radical Party is known for its legalism. If you have something, you'll have enough power to go out for a pay phone, so you'll eventually replicate. But, come on, we're wrong. I will quote only two gentlemen, who apparently do not include the ideology of the Serbian Radical Party. So it's important for me to be understood by you and your voters, by those who have strayed and returned to us. So, at a recent conference called "The Independence of the Justice and Challenges of Transition"... Do you mind? (President: Let, please, the Messenger of the people speak. ) So, the president of the International Association of Judges and Prosecutors, please pay attention to the gentlemen on the left, for freedom and democracy Mr. Carmon Miguel said: "Lustration is a sensitive issue and in my opinion there is no fair lustration. Can't a new generation who hasn't lived or worked at that time take over the role of a judge and judge someone because of his past. We all have a past, but we're all changing. "That's one example. So, not the source of the Serbian Radical Party. The second example is Professor Vladimir Vodanelic. That gentleman certainly isn't inclinating to us. Here's what he said in an interview for the weekly "Time": "I don't think there are conditions for lustration, although Serbia, as well as the former Socialist countries of Europe, has freed an authoritarian regime that violated human rights, while the same new democratic Serbia has not changed any institutions of the authoritarian regime. So we lack the initial conditions for lustration. There is no clear line of distinction between the victims and the perpetrators in Serbia," says Professor Vodanic. Why is that? There was no massive co-operation with the regime in Serbia, gentlemen and ladies. In Serbia, voluntary co-operation and demonstrations were voluntary. Let's open up secret files and see who suggested it at Belgrade University, in all cultural institutions and who could have done it in that authoritarian, totalitarian system without being at the will of the nomenclature. So, what is the essence of what we have tried to amend here to draw the attention of all the citizens and peoples of the Serbian state? In order for it to be better for the 220,000 dinars identified for this position to go for wartime military disableds, for a few municipalities in Metohija, especially for mothers who are supposed to have a second or third child, for families of those suspected in front of The Hague tribunal, for those who have swallowed the transition and for a bunch of young people waiting in line for a visa, not dreaming of a white Schengen list, but that they can earn bread somewhere, because in their own state, in democratic Serbia, here, for eight years now, they can't do that. It's a theme to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3673	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3674	Very briefly, we voted in favour of what is called the Law on Lustration, because Serbia is by nothing and in nothing comparable to the countries that have passed such laws without being able to implement them. I cite Mr. Goran Petrovic, head of the DB Service, said in 2002 at a professional consultation in Vrnjak Banja, where the members of the National Assembly's Security Committee participated, that in Serbia, please, from 1990 to 1998, four files were conducted for people dealing with politics. It's a shame about those four, of course. I want to tell you that after the break-in, it's so-called. The democratic East Germany has six million and eight hundred thousand files left. I refer you to a letter from the students of Krakow High School asking Mayor Krakow to stop the lustration because no one spoke to anyone in their homes, because they deunciated everyone. Serbia is not a typical example. Finally, as far as the island's Golog is concerned, I refer you to a gentleman who normally enjoys it here in Belgrade, his last name is Kapičić, who is the father of Dragan Kapičić, who is the grandfather of Stefan Kapičić; he was master of both death and life on the Golo Island for more than two and a half years. Now he's a Democratic Party voter, as is his son, as is his grandson. Let's lute them with great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3675	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 49 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Marina Toman. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the government did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 50 amendments were submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talian. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the government did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vlado Sekulić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to explain the amendment to my distinguished colleague Elena Christmas-Talian. In article 5, section 50, function 510, the Serbian Radical Party and my esteemed colleague Elena Bozic-Talian believe that a recycling agency should be abolished. It is very unclear this formulation - the Recycling Agency, and then it is explained why this amendment was rejected that the Recycling Agency is registered under the special regulations of the Law on the Treatment of Dangerous Matters. To make Serbian citizens understand what recycling is, and this is very dangerous matter, and if someone thinks it's just recycling paper, polyethylene or polyethylene bags, it's a big mistake. This is about dangerous substances that are under a special regulation and which are intended, I will take an example of agriculture, meaning, for poisons from the first to the sixth groups that are extremely dangerous in the environment, and especially treated, because there is a time period of withdrawal that is persistent. To know how to do it... And I think my colleague made a great suggestion, or explained that the Agency should be abolished, as the finance minister and the government are also called here with a decision on why the amendment was rejected... The amendment was rejected because it was regulated by a special law, but it doesn't explain what was not done properly. The amendment that was rejected says that the recycling agency is connected to all other levels of government that control it, which are your inspections and everything else, and since it is under a special regulation, then you know that it is particularly supervised. As far as this part is concerned, it's 20,422,000, which is not at all a small sum of money from the budget, which is taken primarily from citizens and businesses. I'll explain why I think so, why it refers to the economy in this part. It shows here that 70% is set aside for the Recycling Agency and that goes to pay. The rest of it that you see here, it's your travels, for travel expenses 2,200,000, and I'm interested in where we're going to travel so much, if it's known... I'm going to take an example of a branch of chemistry and nemetals, so companies that deal with pesticides, insecticides and herbicides, which are poisons from the first to the sixth group; if anyone doesn't know, it's packed in jumbo sacks, metal barrels or in polyethylene packaging. I'll explain to you that after using it, it doesn't recycle, nor does what you wrote here -- deposit. It can't be deposited, it's not gold or paper of value, so you'll deposit somewhere; it can only be delayed or destroyed, and to destroy something from this part of recycling... And then there's the Ministry of Environmental Protection and special inspections, and then we come to the fact that 17 million went to pay and all the other contributions. So 2,190,000 for travel, and I'll tell you right away, because the failedly privatized "Zupa" from Kruševec, you won't even need to go there and look at their base and process chemistry; you have "Zorca" - Shabac, which is before collapse; you'll only be able to go to Zemun, I mean "Galenik", it's a leading company in the field of plant protection and there won't be a great cost for all of it. Among other things, it is said that they are significantly linked to the system and will be seen where it is deposited. I'll tell you, that this could be deposited, I think the government should consider and explain what recycling is and that it would be better if it focused these funds on financing these companies or simply into a recycling centre and that it would be a real recycling where this waste would go. Because this is how it seems very unserious, and the citizens and we here can't see what would be the tragic consequences of this waste that you've seen appearing in some caves, and according to special regulations, it can be recycled... This waste of special matter cannot be recycled, gentlemen, under a special regime to be separated somewhere or to create a factory that will destroy it, because this factory does not exist in Serbia. They'd better focus their money on building a factory or helping failed privatized companies like the Parish and Zorka now, the Shabac, than you've given here. It shows here that you just wanted to get your party's staff home well and give them money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3677	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 51 amendments were submitted by MP Veljko Kovacevic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 55 amendments were submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3678	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to this bill, as well as dozens of SRS MPs, in order to improve this legal text, but I really cannot look back on the scandalous decision of the Legislative Committee two days ago which is illegal and, as we lawyers say, is an absolute legal failure. Practically, they have assumed the right of full jurisdiction, although they do not have it, to discuss amendments to the metrics. I see Mr. President of the Legislative Committee here, and I address him, we're colleagues, we're lawyers. So, you are not the parent board of the Serbian Parliament and you as the Legislative Committee (I was a member of that committee in the previous term) can't make such decisions, because your sole task is to follow whether the amendment is in line with the Constitution, the law and the legal system of the country. Yes, of course it was yesterday, but I will now move on to the amendment, because it is precisely all amendments of the Serbian Radical Party that are legally possible and are in line with the country's legal system. That's what you should know; if you don't know, learn at least now. That is why I, as the initiator on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, submitted an amendment to the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, proposing that 55 functions of 160 be deleted in article 5. Split 55 functions 160, whose removal by amendment I have proposed, refers to the Restitution Directorate. We are, by the way, a party programmically against one such organ, against all directors, and against all other agencies where large funds are allocated. For this directive, in the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, huge funds are provided for by all 12 items of economic classification, and they relate to: salaries - amounting to 11 million dinars, travel costs - amounting to 250,000 dinars, contracted services - 8,300,000 dinars, machines and equipment - 1,000,000 dinars, and other items, all in the amount of 25,612,000 dinars. So, the expenditure side of the budget, if you adopt this amendment of mine, would be disbursed for this amount and could be directed into social giving. Of course, you won't, because for you democracy is a number, not a process and respect for laws and regulations, as it should be. On the other hand, we still don't have a law that regulates this area, or we don't have a law that regulates the return of this property. That's another reason why you should adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3679	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 57 amendments were submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I propose that Article 13. The 2007 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia deletes, for reasons of legal and legal-technical nature, for reasons of functionality, institutionality and purposefulness, then, due to violations of the principles of the annuality of the budget and the principles of balance of income and expenditure as shown in the National Investment Plan. The 2007 budget found in the economic classification 55 total funds of 44,381,000,000 dinars, representing 535m euros. We have to agree that it's a huge asset. Since the National Investment Plan, which was institutionally established a year and a half ago, is a newspaper both in the legal system and constitutional legislation and as such without a legal basis, because everything provided for in Article 2. The law on the budgetary system, which is in the definitions of the terms provided for by the Budgetary System Act, is not sufficient to base not only on the allocation of the resources of the National Investment Plan, but without a legal basis cannot go into the distribution of these funds. Article 13 of the draft budget provides that the resources of the National Investment Plan will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Look, in the normative legal system, this is an unnecessary definition, because if the law is passed and if it is valid, it obliges, and repeating it in the budget law is extremely unnecessary. On the other hand, without law, this is the position of the SRS, we cannot go into the distribution and distribution of funds, not only of the National Investment Plan but of any other kind of funding. The law I'm talking about has to define the terms of funding, it has to talk about what means, under which conditions they're being placed, whether these funds are interest-free, whether they're non-refundable or non-refundable, whether interest is defined or not. In the budget, or the draft budget, we cannot establish the rights on which that part of the funds will be allocated. In addition, we must say that we are giving this draft budget great rights to the ministries because we have not laid down the rules, and the rules are laid down by the law to which these funds will be shared. There are possible abuses. The first abuse was made by Economy and Regional Development Minister Dinkic, when he left for Sombor five days after the government's election and private firm Calcedonija, the Italian firm, allocated an 800,000-euro fund to each worker, 2,000 euros each; 400 workers and that is 800,000 euros. Under what law are these assets distributed? So the media transmitted information that these funds were distributed. I ask you if the government has decided on this, because the regulation provides that the National Investment Plan's resources are to be allocated on the basis of government decisions. Did the government decide that? Could a minister go on his own free will, promise and go public and grant certain funds? He can't. In this case, the minister smiled and distributed the funds, assigned it to a private firm. This only says that it is necessary to adopt and adopt a law to determine how the objectives of the National Investment Plan, as well as the scope of the funds, the way in which these funds are made available and how the decision-making process is correctly established. That's what you did under the regulations, otherwise it's your practice in the division of these funds. Given the time, five minutes have passed, I'll be done. So, I'm saying that this article is being deleted, that you pass a special law that will define the exact conditions and the way in which you divide the funds from the National Investment Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3681	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, respecting this time, will speak very briefly not only of this amendment, but of the next two members, as Article 14 and Article 15 also speak about the National Investment Plan. I would like to declare on behalf of the SPS MP, in fact, the idea of the National Investment Plan. The National Investment Plan is an idea that, if we come up with an idea to the end, lay down rules of conduct, from making it through ways to realize, clear criteria, final reporting, there's no one who wouldn't support it. Who wouldn't support an idea that enables development, construction, new jobs, employment, etc.? What do I want to point out? She had an idea where she came down so that people wouldn't believe it anymore, and that's already over, it's just about ideas. I know it's not the time yet, because this government, instead of gathering, continues to share both people and parties and everything else, but the National Investment Plan should be something to gather everything that needs to be called to unity, to consensus, but to be understood from the beginning, from bringing it to the realization. The National Investment Plan was introduced last year through amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System and budget rebalancing for 2006. So then there was a missed chance that she could make up for now. But when the 2006 budget rebalance was brought in, at least the National Investment Plan was very precise on all the items where, when and how to spend it. The 2006 budget rebalance is valid for 2006. What happens next? The 2007 draft budget, which is the previous government, later became technical, suggested to the assembly, also left a difference to make it an integral part of the budget. It's a worse option than to pass a law on the National Investment Plan, which is the best option. But again, by precise budget law, or proposal, she has defined the full procedure when it comes to the National Investment Plan and has re-explained all items in all areas, what, where, by municipalities etc. Finally, we have now come to the draft budget law where there is none of it, except that 44 billion dinars should be singled out. Give it to us, and we'll know how to do it. And of course, here are the examples, one of which my predecessor was talking about and a whole series of other examples behind it. That could have occurred the moment Mr. Gilas came to take these things into his own hands. He's famous, by the way, for where the finances are going, where the money is being processed; the moment he came to that place, the first thing that followed -- what a congregation and wooden coppers, the money is going to be left out so much, and we're going to see how much further will be spent. Well, you see, then the National Investment Plan isn't what the idea was, what it was meant to be, it becomes something that people don't trust and, of course, becomes something that allows very big abuses in spending these funds. That's why we think it was meant to be a reaction and an intervention to regulate the National Investment Plan by law. So I think that we should support such an idea to pass a law on a National Investment Plan that will compare all these rules, bring people around and then have its full meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3683	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14, and in order for both you and the citizens of Serbia, at least those watching this transfer, to read both the member and the explanation clearly. Article 14: "Execution of commitments for the National Investment Plan projects, as well as commitments for projects financed by the budget planned as capital expenditure, can also be done with accounting forms of payment (assignation, cessium, compensation etc.)". Second position: "The Minister in charge of Finance Affairs will be closer to setting up the way for the implementation of the expenditure of Article 1". My amendment reads, "Article 14 is deleted." The reason is very simple. First, the minister is a state official, and the ministry is an institution, the government is an institution, and if needed, it should have been written "The Ministry of Finance Affairs in charge will be closer to setting up a way of execution". A team before the ministry's minister, a man who sold fog in Serbia only last year, earned sixm euros with two phantom companies, or five billion dinars. It's about a man who, across the People's Office across the street, countered a great deal of money and shared great promises, and the citizens of Serbia who had the misfortune to come to the People's Office did not get anything but -- we'll see, we'll consider. He, about across the street from B92, built a magnificent business building. Today we are such a man, who proved himself by being... You couldn't buy TV seconds for an advertisement on RTS or on these TVs, everything had to go through Gilas's two firms. I got an explanation from the Legislative Committee that my amendment is legally possible. Look out, rich man, who has written so far that the amendment is not legally possible. But the explanation of why I am being denied the amendment is very interesting: "Amendment is being rejected for the reason that Article 14 provides for the implementation of commitments for the National Investment Plan projects, as well as commitments for projects financed by the budget planned as capital expenditure, can also be made by accounting forms of payment, which will be organised by the minister closer." That's exactly the problem. It's not how it's going to be paid, it's who's going to edit closer. You gave the goat to keep the cabbage. Please, gentlemen, this particular government, when looked at, at least for half of them, has one 150-year-old prison. You have arranged the crime through the Regulation, he says – about the amount of the special fee achieved by the conclusion of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. state property... Do you remember how the Bubalo turned green when the Couprom doesn't buy Bor? You know why? Because of this 5% commission. That's the point. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 14 should be deleted, because the bill did not do the right thing. After all, the whole budget proposal was collected from the stake and rope. That is why I believe that an amendment and article 14 should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3685	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15. Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, which provides for the removal of Article 15. Already, MPs of the SRS group in previous exhibitions have explained to you quite comprehensively why the SRS does not consider it necessary in the Republic of Serbia's budget to be the intended term, idea, institution of the National Investment Plan. You know that the National Investment Plan as an idea appeared last year, both non-institutionally, in the heads and in certain forecasts of spending the funds of the then government of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, the minister in charge of implementing the National Investment Plan, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, before being incorporated into certain parts of the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, spent that money and was largely abused by members of the government, and above all by him as minister in the government. The question arises when will we have a government and members of the government in which we will trust in the use of large funds of the people's money, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia? In time, the idea has become institutionalised, so more concrete provisions on how to implement the National Investment Plan are now foreseen in the 2007 budget law of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 15, in particular, it is essential that I do not read Article 15. Proposal for a law, that the order to implement the total expenditure for the implementation of the National Investment Plan should be entrusted to the official who is concerned with the project of the National Investment Plan, as well as to the competent minister who runs the National Investment Plan, in particular Mr Dragan Gilas of the Democratic Party, the minister without portfolio in charge of the National Investment Plan. I personally, as an MP of the SRS, and I know that all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, having in mind certain behaviours of Mr Dragan Gilas from the Democratic Party (and I know that the MPs of the Democratic Party will be dissuaded and will not accept this argument, will not like it), precisely because of the abuse of the right to transfer the World Cup in 2006 from Germany, when the BK paid the transfer of 3m and 100 000 euros, you know well what happened to BK TV, paid 2 million and 800 000 euros; for that amount, the rights of transfer are also foreseen for Macedonia, Kosovo and Metohija and Montenegro, approximately half of that total amount of 2 million and 800 thousand euros. Namely, Mr. Dragan Gilas's firm bought the right to transfer from BK TV and sold it to Serbian Radio-Television; as you say -- to the information service of Serbian citizens, which was simply an information service at the time of the Serbian government, and now in particular Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. They sold Serbia's broadcasting rights for three million and 100,000 euros and damaged the state for a considerable amount of money; it is projected to have been around 2m euros. By the way, certain banks, specifically Meridian Bank and a brewery from Novi Sad, paid the mediator to take over advertising rights during the World Cup football, a total of two million and 500,000 euros to Dragan Gilas, the Darekt Media, to advertise during the World Cup in football. The data funds haven't been paid in a long time. Later, I have no record of whether they are, I guess not. That is why we Serbian Radical Party MPs believe it is necessary to vote for this amendment and that this matter is specifically regulated by a special law, when it comes to large amounts of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3687	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Saša Valjarevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Vidoje Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3688	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have come to support the amendment of MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović to Article 22. The bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the amendment that goes right behind this, and also concerns Article 22, was submitted by Socialist Party of Serbia MPs Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and Miletic Mihajlovic. It's about the next one. The Legislative Committee here has not made clear whether or not this amendment is legally possible, on the one hand, and the Government explains the limitation of the funds for the remuneration of employees financed from the budget of the local authorities, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, which provides for consolidation between different levels of government, i.e. that the general balance is an integral part of the budget memorandum for the financial year under which total income and expenditure of the Republic and local authorities are financed. What do I mean by that? Mr. Minister, this is where the profits are tied in September 2006. The previous government also did so when it came to the 2006 draft budget. The starting point was also September 2005. Meanwhile, we now have a whole new situation and is it possible to resolve it? The government has brought basics since September 2006 and by April 2007, profit growth is 12.73%. You planned a 10% increase in the draft law in article 22. Meanwhile, two regulations have been passed, starting with the education and health unions, and the coefficients for receiving workers who are employed in kindergartens and libraries have been changed. Now a rational question is being raised - if you have adopted a regulation on increasing the coefficients for these workers, and they are being financed from the budget, is it possible for us to now make a change in the positions relating to the library, or children's kindergarten? At the same time, the government has made a statement about this and says that certain local environments have violated expenditures in terms of salaries and for these reasons have resorted to pay restrictions and tied to September 2006. The question arises whether the government's argument is realistic. She says she did not violate local administration's independence in budgeting. I personally think that it has violated independence, because it has simply given us the opportunity to raise these salaries, while at the same time the obligation to increase the coefficients in children's protection institutions and libraries. With the current bill, we have a possible 10% increase. The current situation is this, and I see a lot of MPs here, and everyone has to wonder what we're going to have in the local environments, because we have to pay back to employees in kindergartens or libraries or we won't have a mass of 12 salaries in the current 2007. That is why I am in principle and I support this amendment to delete Article 22, or the next amendment relating to the percentage of 10% being replaced by a percentage of 17%, which will mitigate the potential consequences we would have in the local environment. When it comes to the independence of the local administration in budgeting, it is threatened by this Article 22. Draft budget law. Why do I say that? We don't have the possibility of getting a worker. We are related to the number of workers we had in September 2006 and 2005 respectively. If the government has noticed that certain local administrations are in violation of the salary costs, it may, through its budget sector in the ministry, exercise control and punish such local administrations rather than be punished by those local administrations acting in accordance with the government's recommendations and memorandum. This is where I give you more examples. When it comes to employment, our independence has been compromised and for practical reasons, here, this proposal of the Republic budget – an increase of workers in the President of the Republic's office compared to 2000, had 39, now had 103; the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in 2000, 352, and now 558; the Ministry of Education in 2000 - 397, and now 502; the Ministry of Health 334, now 433; the Ministry of Finance in 2000, 121, now 284. So the government and the resolution ministries can have freedom, and local administrations can't. I must point out that local administrations in Serbia were environments that contributed to Serbia's stability. In principle, in most cases, they brought the budget in December and functioned properly, and are now being prosecuted to return to September 2006 when it comes to the budget project. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, if possible, to correct this, because we'll have a certain problem if not at all, then in the largest number of municipalities. That's why it would be good to have a percentage of 10 replaced by 17 or to delete this member. Or, in this article, to add one view to the fact that those environments they need can address with clear reasons and a proposal from the ministry to grant them that these funds can remain as planned in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3689	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3690	The objective of this amendment is to allow workers of the municipal administration and public enterprises in municipalities to make their own incomes...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3691	I'm sorry, you're reporting on your amendment. Wait a second. National MPs Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and Miletic Mihajlovic jointly submitted the 22nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not adopted the amendment. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3692	The essence of this amendment is precisely to allow workers of the municipal administration and workers of public enterprises of the municipality, which are otherwise financed from the budget of local self-government, to be able to make their planned incomes for 2007. We have one example here that the practical regulation allows the pay to be increased, the coefficients and the pay bases to be increased, and on the other hand, that the law makes it impossible and that these people can receive the salary by these new coefficients. The issue is also provided that the number of workers does not increase, i.e. many local self-governments have reduced the number of workers in local self-government as instructed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, the local self-government in Negotina has reduced 20% of local self-government workers instead of planned 10%. However, now the reduced number of workers under the new law, and according to the previous regulation, even though it has an increased number of jobs, cannot achieve its planned personal incomes. This is another proof that the government is still dealing with itself, because it has practically forgotten that local self-government exists, no longer pays attention to the interests of local self-government citizens. How to interpret the fact that the government has abolished the Gerdap Rent Fund under the new Energy Act in local self-government, a virtual fund that served to devastate local self-governments that suffered damage when building the Gerdap 2. The rent fund was among the significant items in the local self-government budget. Especially when we remember that the local self-government in Negotina last year had terrible floods, so that cash from the Rent Fund would be welcome for the recovery of these damages. How else could this phenomenon be interpreted if the administration allowed and the law made it impossible for it? Either the government has made a superficial bill or it is about silent signals that local self-government still needs to reduce the number of workers and that this government manual for reducing workers is not enough, but that even greater reduction of workers in local self-government is planned. I remind you that this will cause terrible social problems, because in local self-governments in conditions like today, where the economy doesn't work, where farmers barely survive, where they can only pay taxes and contributions, where they ask whether they can pay taxes for pension and disability insurance and health insurance, where private entrepreneurship is also being shut down, I can tell you that these are the workers who are the only ones in the family, the family, who exercise their right to work. What's waiting for us in local self-government? We've got a bigger loss of business ahead of us, new privatisations ahead of us, new bankruptcys ahead of us. Practically, the government is making social cases that are left to some local self-government to solve. If we're talking about salaries in local self-government, can a 27 thousand-month-old teacher do her job in quality, with the will, have a lot of patience for the kids she's guarding? Could a college-educated man, an intern in local self-government, have 25 thousand dinars a month? Please, these are the things the government needs to think about. As for young people, we wonder why they don't start their own families. It's because there's no economic potential to start a family. Then we wonder why the birth rate is so small. As for the birth rate, I remind you that at this point in Serbia there are about 200,000 sterile marriages, waiting for assisted fertilisation, as the people say - artificial fertilisation. The state is currently able to allocate money for about a thousand fertilisations a year from its budget. If it is considered that each assisted fertilisation does not give one embryo, that it is unsuccessful, that on average it takes two or three times to do so, the trend of solving 200,000 sterile marriages in Serbia will be resolved in more than 200 years, according to this dynamic solving of these problems. If it were to go private, it would cost several thousand euros, which is not available for a simple family, for an ordinary citizen, who does not know how to pay for the medicine, whether to get the prescription medicine. I have to tell you, according to the planned budget for health care, there is a big question of positive and negative drug lists. I predict that many drugs on the positive list will be paid with greater participation, or that many of them will switch to a negative list or will not be artificially in the state. I ask you, Mr. President, to appease Mr. People's MPs. (President: I'm asking for a little more patience to hear from you. Here, continue) What to say, in addition to these banal health problems, what will happen to a complex health process that is increasingly bulging in primary health care. Please, there's an ethical question. Today what the state has done, the government, in the domain of wages in local self-government, we have another example, and the regulation makes it impossible... According to the new Health Protection Act, all patients have the right to be treated, all patients have the right to go to the doctor, to perform the examination, to take the cure. But according to the regulations that the state has arranged, all of this has been disabled. I'll show you on a simple case. In order for a sick man to reach a specialist today, for example, a urologist, he must go to his chosen doctor, contact his chosen doctor, wait in line for several hours, provided that the chosen doctor finds, that the chosen doctor is not on vacation or on days off. It's a double dissatisfaction, because the patient waits for a few hours and the chosen doctor sweats all day long to reach the norm. Then he gets instructions to go to a specialist, comes who he is, gets examined by a specialist. So that I can cure him by giving him a manual for the lab, I'm giving him an ultrasound manual. I used to have the right to write all these instructions. I don't have that right anymore today. The patient returns with my report to his chosen doctor again. That can't happen in the same day. It can only happen the next day, because he's waiting in line, I remind you, both with me and with his chosen doctor. It's only then that the chosen doctor writes to him again -- for the lab, for the ultrasound, for the X-ray. To go to the lab, it takes two to three days to make an appointment. To perform an ultrasound, it takes a few weeks to get an ultrasound. To perform other auxiliary diagnostic methods, in all that time, to show again to his specialist doctor, to whom the instruction expires in a month, he must go back to that direction. (President: please, Mr Dimitrievich, just a second.) Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it really doesn't make sense. You're all talking to each other. It's a terrible noise. Let's hear from each other, there are only a few amendments left to finish today's work. Please. The Lord’s People’s Messengers are not sick, but they will get sick, God forbid, one day, so they will be interested in what kind of health process they will be when they turn their turn to the doctor. But I do know that they will have privileges and that they will not wait in line like regular patients are waiting. But I remind them that today the ultrasound is waiting in Negotina, in smaller places for a few weeks, and your Belgraders, your fellow citizens are waiting a few months to get to the lab, to the ultrasound and other diagnostic methods. So I ask you to listen carefully, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because it is about our citizens and in Belgrade, and in Negotina, Zachar and in other cities. These are exactly those health anomalies that have been present in all of Serbia for the past few years. This shows how much this government takes care of health care, how much this government gives attention to a sick man, a patient. I remind you that the problem is not in doctors, health workers, or patients, but in money that is allocated to the health budget from the entire budget of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I just want to remind you that in my day, when I was a general practitioner, each of the patients could come and say that once a year they wanted to check the blood count, that once a year they wanted to check their medical condition. Gentlemen of the People, and the citizens know it well, there is no more; now a sick man can hardly exercise his right to treatment in such a complex health process. Do you know what happens? It happens that a man practically gives up waiting. Will a sick man wait for an ultrasound for a month? Will he wait for the lab results for a week? He won't, gentlemen, but he'll borrow himself, go to a private office and do whatever he needs there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] All of this I have said is true and this is reflected in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I know you are impatient, I will soon end up, not a problem, but I am glad that I have managed to get the attention of the MPs who are dealing with their people's problems, including the problems of the sick citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'd just say for the end that we were once the state that had the best organized social and health insurance, but unfortunately, today we're not. Today in this country, more and more citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot exercise their right to health insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3693	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3694	Respected citizens of Serbia, respected colleagues... In the words of "respected colleagues", I address those who have since Friday of 16 hours, when the draft budget has been brought to the Assembly and given us insight, had the patience to read it, to invest amendments, to discuss it very patiently here for several days, without feeling tired, with a sense of responsibility, because it is worth eight billion euros in budgets, want to end the debate in a manner that is appropriate for the people's representatives, the MPs. I ask for a few more minutes of attention from those who won't look forward to the information I'm going to make, most of those who went to watch the game, to rest, to have a drink, and to come here with a mess of trying to finish the budget debate by voting, which I don't believe will bring us all a lot of good. I won't be distracted, but I want to warn you and believe me, I've been waiting six years for this moment. I've been waiting six years to prove how difficult it is to make the decision you made in 2001 by adopting an international grant agreement on a trust fund. Since then, the six billion dollars promised you received a sixm-euro donation, which I cannot claim to be a donation, because in the budget, which is the topic of debate, it says that for this purpose, for reforming the banking system and supporting the private sector, credit is returned. I don't know when you took it, under what conditions, and I doubt what you said was a donation is actually a loan. The point of the amendment that I have submitted and which will also be the definition of DOS rule, which I call a commission as a way of life, will become clear to everyone, there will be no doubt left. In Article 23 of this budget, which, I repeat to the unlisted, is just a schedule law, and not one that establishes rights, you wrote that one part of the privatisation funds will be spent. I asked the amendment to deliver, first to you, finance ministers, and then to the competent committees of the Assembly both for privatisation and for finance, a report on the funds achieved from the sale of capital in the privatisation process. If anyone thinks that such a report exists, you are wrong, because I am asking for a report before the payment of a fee of 5% of the agreed price determined here by the regulation, which is realized by the conclusion of the contract, by the regulation by which Mr. Bubalo in 2005 specified the amount of commission of 5%, but it was established in 2001; so it was charged, because it was established, all the time, but it was only appointed by the 2005 Regulation. The 49 international contract, "Official Journal", number 8, brought to the Federal Assembly in September and printed on 24.10, to see what is later, writes – a return for success in the privatisation process, if achieved, will be paid out of the funds achieved by the sale of the company and will not be financed from the donations. In this Official List of International Contracts, many here know the whole privatisation process, which is only later declared by law, and all the authorities that will implement it. The Privatisation Act, article 41, specifically regulated that the agreed price, Mr Vlahovic, for the privatisation process implies when the costs are deducted, means, after the settlement of the costs of the sale in the privatisation process, these costs are for the engagement of financial and legal advisers, the fees for public calls, I read the second position of Article 41b; means, after deduction of the costs necessary and necessary funds are paid to the Privatisation Agency, and in the budget, Mr Minister, you get the funds when a special fee is settled and the regulation is set at 5%. Legally, there's nothing. I ask, my dear colleagues, if it will be so easy to go over the reasoning that someone here says. Of course, if you take your mobile phones or your paper and your pen and calculate: 3.2 billion of what they call direct investment from the sale of capital, i.e. privatisation, 3.2 billion times 5%, 160 million euros did not go into the budget and no one has a report on it. I'm looking for that report for the finance minister and for the committees. Why am I looking for this very minister and why is it my pleasure? Mr. Cvetkovic, on 19 November 2003, you gave an interview in which you said - in 2003 we received 1.3 billion from privatisation through sales. At that time, the 5% was 60m euros or 4 billion 860 thousand dinars. In 2003, the percentage and commission, established, no confusion in 2000 as a commitment, applied all the time, and the problem is that money does not go into Serbia's budget, and what is the amount of that money. This isn't insinuation, this is a receipt. So 3.2 billion times 5% is 160 million euros, 12 billion and 960 million dinars per euro rate 81, I repeat, 12 billion and 960 million dinars. So much, dear colleagues, is about a budget deficit, but the sum of what you say is success this year, what you separate for refugees and displaced persons, for sports scholarships, the Youth Fund, the student standard, the student standard, and social protection in the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget is so much. So, if you didn't, and now the key to the story comes, you were in charge of your mentors in 2000, and you didn't adopt such a contract in the Federal Assembly, and they asked you to adopt it in the Federal Assembly, not because they respected that home, but because they knew that it was the only way they would oblige you to respect it, and that you took it as a practice, because it was very nice, because it made it possible, for example. The Citadel company, where a certain lady whose name I don't want to mention worked, was chosen by Bozidar Djelic... And many of the current members of the government, and some who are no longer, and your party colleagues, Mr Cvetkovic, made serious remarks that by the end of 2003, the company, was indirectly a subcontractor of the Morgan Stanley firm, either directly, received most of the jobs in this area; until Bozidar Djelic passed love, so I decided to open up the company "Altis" and to do these jobs either directly or via "Rotshilda" (i.e., Mr. Vlahovic, maybe there was something attached to "Eki Investment"), whether through KPMG. When we, dear fellow citizens, see who's on the list of non-privatization counselors, I'm not talking about them, they're regular, they have to prepare a job, I'm not talking about illegal commissions, I'm not talking about Kolesar, undiscovered, I'm talking about a return to the privatisation process which was what the donor's request to return to the donor country, I explained the last time, that out of the six million million and 830, who got that money, who's on the list, who are the most common friends of some of us here? Why are such high fees if you have defined a fee of only 3% in the preparation of the NIS privatisation process today? Why is this constant five, at a time when we talk about wages, social donations, a country in transition, etc.? Mr. Vlahovicu, you are here as very interesting as a participant, a beautiful photograph. Before I show you from the Serbian Government website, info, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I repeat, I have no friends in the BIA, no secret sources, the only sources are your data, laws, official papers and messengers. I'm just reading carefully, as Serbian radicals do. What I want to mention here, journalists have warned you, dear colleagues, at the moment you've had negotiations with the London Club for a long time, and the London Club, I'm going to remind you again, are the trusts of the banks of which the biggest Credit Agrikol is known here for buying the Meridian Bank... I don't like it a little bit, I'm a lady, but this job was a fight between good friends Bozo Djelic and Mr. Vlahovic. Why is this job interesting? He's interesting because at the London Club of Credit Agrikol, he's the biggest trustee for this country's debt. They say it came to that debt before Boza Djelic was the finance minister, I don't know. They say it has nothing to do with Mr. Pitic. That's the second in line, the Sosite General Bank, which is the trustee of our debt. But the journalists warned you, I quote, that the time has come for the state to show its teeth to certain banks from the London Club, instead of hiring them in privatisation processes, rewarding them with very high fees. What did you give them the commission for? Mr. Vlahovicu, you and I are old acquaintances from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For what the Official Journal published in September 2001, 28. ... (President: You have another minute, Mrs. Jorgenka. ) Mr. Vlahovic was already boasting on September 7th with a published ad, and imagine for what - to prepare the privatisation process of three cements. You and I, as old acquaintances, know that the previous government has fully prepared the privatisation process of these cementers and that there has been no cost, and you only hired for that part of the job... May I have your attention, please? You chose as a financial consultant of HSBC Bank and the Austrian company CMS from Austria; you introduced Austrian consultants to today's disputed concessions until the alleged entry of only "Lafarza" into BFC, and then introduced already "Alpina"; I am only talking today about not entering a conflict of interest because I knew it as minister, I am talking about it today for the first time, which will say that you have introduced commissions as a principle of life. You're talking about citizens' rights, you're talking about fighting for a better life, and you're interested in satisfying the firm of your mentors, friends and letting go... With this amendment, I want to force you to amend the Privatisation Act, not to pay 5%, and not to express false concern for the benefit of the citizens while the money of all of us is being wasted like this. That is what the SRS has to say in favour of opposition to this budget and to make it clear again – while the budget is brought into the interest of the government and its friends who rent friendships and services, and against Serbian citizens or insufficiently in the interest of Serbian citizens, we will be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3695	Thank you. On behalf of the SPS, MP Dr Bojan Milovanovic and then MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3696	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, seems to have given this 23rd member a little more attention. I have listened carefully and I will try to explain why I answered because I believe that through this Article 23, the whole situation can be seen about the privatisation process in the local environments, especially in those small and undeveloped ones. What Tabakovic was saying was shortest I would explain as one process, one wish and one request addressed to the ministry that what we call "transparently" in recent times and was directed towards the Ministry of Finance. The reason for the refusal of the amendment suggests that such reports related to a 5% commission are referred to the Resorship Ministry of Privatisation, which is reported by the committees. I'll deal with it a little bit, I think it's a very interesting topic, if you have a little patience, I'll hurry, it's about Article 61. The privatisation law, which now determines the distribution of funds achieved by privatisation. This famous member of 61st is exactly what depicts in every respect the desire of the current government to deal with the even development of these undeveloped and small municipalities. Given that I come from Raska, I will remind you that Raska, unfortunately, may be the municipality with the greatest potential at this moment in Serbia, but still in the status of an undeveloped municipality. So, 10% of the assets, as this member says, are referred to the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund; 50% of the funds for restructuring the economy and the impact on the development of the economy; 5% of the funding for nationalised assets, and what is most important for local self-government, that is 5% of the funds for the development of local self-government infrastructure according to the seat of the privatisation entity. Why did I, fellow MPs, say this? Because the ultimate epilogue is all small environments, I will deal with Raška, because we received zero funds in the privatisation process. Now, to be precise, it may not be pure zero, but these financial effects shown in the Rasak municipality are so small and insignificant that I have marked them as zero. What does that mean? Privatisation entities across the seat site specifically for Raska mean the next image and opportunity - "Genex", "Putnik", "Lola System", "Stava", you yourself know where the headquarters of these business entities are. In the privatisation process, it was the most frightening situation in this small environment that even those insignificant 5% went to the development of infrastructure perhaps the most developed municipalities. The Socialist Party of Serbia will surely apply for an amendment to the Law on Privatisation in the future, where it will try to mitigate the tragic consequences of all these events over the past few years, and will propose to amend the Law where, according to the seat of the subjects, it will replace one definition by the place of action. We hope that through this amendment to the Privatisation Act, we will manage at least a little to prevent that catastrophic effect. I'll just point out that today, we're reading in the papers, preparing and privatizing the Genesis. The Minister for Economy and Regional Development announced that the privatisation will go according to a specific model that says unburdened assets will first be privatised, and then from the second part (I don't know what the second part is) will be financed according to the creditors' demands. I'm not an economist, I'm a doctor, so it may not be very clear to me, but it's also clear to me what the consequences will be. I have to remind you that when he started to build this famous bath, the Genex hotels, the entire urban part of the Bath, that then a small underdeveloped municipality of Raška, together, through the Development Fund, then with our land, I hope, as it is now, and with certain funds of Genesis, has invested in the Kopalnik. In addition to all the appeals of the municipality of Rask to return some of the funds from the mentioned privatisation to the municipality of Rask, I will also tell the municipality of Brus, nothing concrete has happened. I hope as an MP, and you as MPs here, to help, above all, through the government's project of balance of development, and Raska and the municipality of Bruce do not remain without any dinar of this famous privatisation. I apologize again, maybe this isn't an interesting topic for such a high policy. I just wanted through a few sentences to point out the possible consequences and to appeal to small and undeveloped municipalities that this unfair privatisation, through this famous Article 61, can be corrected while it's still time, because, I'll remind you, the privatisation itself in our country is limited and limited. So this is the final moment. I think the SPS through its parliamentary club will make an effort to at least a fraction of what is happening in the privatisation process, specifically in the Raška municipality, fix. Here, if I was constructive, I'd try to finish this story, not to use it or limit it with all this time. I thank you again for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3697	Thanks, buddy. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete, on behalf of the 2007 Parliament group, Article 24 of your Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, because it is excessive. The controversial part of the text in Article 24 reads - direct and indirect budget users were obliged to account for - the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, up to 31. 01. In 2007, they transferred all the funds that were not spent to finance expenditure in 2006. So, you Democrats, 20. 06. In 2007, you ask the beneficiary of the budget to return money from their accounts in your register, which you say they were obliged to return as neutral funds. Well, gentlemen, at least that's unstately and completely pointless. Your formulation that you, as a government, say "you've been in debt," it's absurd. And what of those who were in debt who did not do so? What is the meaning of this retrograde requirement, other than to scare the users of the budget and to act as the Supreme Boss? Imagine the situation in which you put a local self-government that literally did not settle your obligations with that 31 January, and you demand that your money be returned to you, or some public enterprise that has not reached the payment of the debt by that date, and there are many. All the heats have shortages, and who can they get the funds back to? There's a feeling that you're giving us this article 24. You're making budget bill crazy. With this member who does not belong in the Serbian budget and your temporary financing regulations, you further influence the loss of poor municipalities that include Prokuplje, Kursumlija, Blace and Žitoraj from Toplička County, in which you have been especially celebrated by your privatisation. As an eclectic example, I will list one of the best water factory in Serbia "Milan Toplice". Although you know that every water factory is in the translation of money factories, because you sell a product for whose production you didn't have a special investment, you hurried to sell the Centroprom, Atlas Bank and Export-export better. When you haven't settled for a further percentage, you've hitched the privatisation, you've stopped the trial before the court, the factory doesn't work for years, huge reserves of water lie untapped, and 200 workers are sitting at home without a job, not receiving any compensation. This is just one of the twenty thermal factories you've destroyed, and believe me, the Milan Toplice factory was harder to destroy than to bring it into order of the world's best water factories. So instead of investing in municipalities, regardless of who the president of the municipality is and from which parties, to strengthen local self-government and further help her in all the affairs of her jurisdiction, you with five months of delay without any shame and shame say - were obliged to pay back the money. Is this your commitment to decentralisation, or is this what it turns out to be that you allow decentralisation on all grounds, but when it comes to finance, you forget everything you've ever said and become absolute masters of people's money, small people's money, those people who voted for you in the elections and who were only good to you then. If you stand for the principle of decentralisation, the Republic, or the Government, cannot decide everything. In search of a reason for the existence of this Article, I was wondering if you might have prescribed from the last draft budget, so you replaced the words "they were due" with "they were due". You may have fallen into this paradox by subscribing the last budget, because right now, five months later, you have to have the exact information that is the amount of these funds returned, and not through these vague formulations you're trying to justify yourself, cover or scare the users of the budget that haven't returned the funds you spent. It's probably another technical manipulation, because you're masters of such things. Let's remember your technical manipulation when you presented the creation of 23 billion dinar surpluses in the previous draft budget, and now we have a deficit in budget projection. To not fool citizens, the results are the same, the return of credit and the spending of money under the National Investment Plan without control. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, respect our proposals and suggestions and you may be respected among Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3699	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3700	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm counting on these coalition partners of yours to go eat something or, as modern as this is today, someone put them in the trunk so they don't vote for such a bad budget. The joke aside, Mark Milenkovic's amendment is very logical, especially what would be good to see who they are and how they will determine what means for which there was no basis for spending, when we know that there was so much money for which there was no basis for spending, and not by saying that we Serbian radicals or any of your political opponents, but as we know it happened for days and weeks in the election campaign, after the election campaign, for days and weeks. You all know that very well, but now you have to keep your mouth shut for the common government and for what you have to do together in the coming period. We in the Serbian Radical Party will point to you, we will tell you how and in what way to predict the collection of new funds, that you have come up with some more serious taxes on Putin's recipe for the richest people who robbed Serbia, instead of acting like you don't know anything, like you don't understand anything and nothing is happening in Serbia, but everything is almost ideal, and Serbia is getting smaller and smaller and more poorer and poorer. By the way, about all the things you've been telling us for days about the European values of this budget, about how this budget clearly shows the European definition of the Serbian government, from economic angles, from the economic point of view, I can tell you that it would be good to pay a little attention to the other side. Earlier you made fun of Russia, China and many other countries, today we expect only these countries to help. Today we ask these countries to save our country, to save our country in the true sense of words. Just to show you on one case how far these countries have progressed. In each other's relations, Russia had a 6 billion-dollar trade deficit with the European Union in 1995. Today, Russia has an 18 billion dollar surplus in trade with the European Union. I know that you are not particularly interested, that you are not interested in much, as you are very much interested in how much Ahtisaari Shipari has given money, who, and how, how the whole operation has been broken down, because you are not interested in anything other than how you will be able to show up on television and say that you are protecting European values. We are in the whole debate on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in the debate in principle and in the debate in particular, above all Jorganka Tabakovic, but also other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, pointed out to you the mistakes, where more financial resources were to be allocated, to those divisions in the budget where much less or saved money was to be spent. You didn't want to hear the opposition voice. However, I am quite confident that the citizens of Serbia are, but I would like to inform you, if only a little bit, that MPs who go out for a pay phone are a little bit more tired than those who don't go out and then, for the sake of concentration, that we don't say something wrong, please, for a very little patience, I won't take more than a minute. So, I want to give you one piece of information. As early as June 30th, according to information received from our people from individual intelligence services, serious riots and attempts to create unrest in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm telling this to the National Assembly because I don't know the most important and significant body in this country. I'm saying you'd keep that in writing and you'd know. Please, representatives of the government, consider what we can do, how it can be prevented. They plan to unilaterally declare independence by July 15th, to get support from your friends, Europeans and Americans, of course, from whom else. You look, we have very little time left to preserve what is ours. So I think we have a lot of important work to do and a lot to do. Take care of this information, it's very serious, I see some of your people have heard something similar before. That means there's seriousness, that some people understand. I'm just afraid that some others, who would have to understand it much better and understand it, don't want to. In any case, we have warned you, not as political opponents, but as people who are in power today, who together with us, but with much greater responsibility, must take care of the state. We have no reserve country, Serbia is our only one, and without Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia will not exist either.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3701	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3702	I would like to thank all the MPs who gave amendments. Despite the fact that the government has accepted a smaller number of amendments, I would like to say that those amendments that have not been accepted have been very seriously analysed and their content will continue to be recorded and we will see what can be done about this issue in the next period. It was nice to meet you, especially today, that the discussion was coming to an end. I feel a great relief, and I think you feel it too, which brings an end to a very serious job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-22-0.u3703	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I remind you, according to Article 152, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly may set a day for the vote on the draft budget law during the session, not waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and in particular on the other points of the agenda. I set a day for voting on the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget for today, 23 June 2007, starting at 00.15pm. [[After break – 00.15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you, before we begin work, to determine the quorum for work and decision-making. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Before we move on to a decision on the Bill on the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2.8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. For 130, against 18, one of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that MP Vladan Batic submitted on 18 June 2007 at 11.40 am ten amendments to the Bill on Budgets in the Republic of Serbia for 2007, which he withdrew by letter of 18 June 2007 at 13.00 hours and submitted new amendments to Articles 5, 8, 12, 15 and 16. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that MP Milan Nikolic submitted an amendment to article 5 of the June 3, 18th, 2007 at 12:00 p.m., which he withdrew by letter of 18 June 2007 and submitted a new amendment to Sections 3 and 12 of the Bills. As the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments to Article 1 of the amendment by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 131, 10 of the 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 132, voted 59, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 132, five of the 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 133, five of the 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, 7 of the 192 MPs did not vote against 131. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Valjarevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 54, 7 of the 192 MPs did not vote against 131. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted 2 amendments to Article 5. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 131, the abstention one, did not vote five, out of a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, section 2, 3, 5, 11, 12, 15, 21 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 144, voted 49 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 131, 7 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, 6 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 129, he did not vote 21, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 133, five of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, it did not vote 8 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, Sections 3 and 12 of the amendments were submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 131, seven out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, division 3, 12, 18, 26 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3, 21, 24, 26, 28, 29 and 52 of the amendments were submitted by the MP Alexander Jerkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment, with correction, be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7 against 143, 45 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57 against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, he divided the 3rd and 21st amendments, with a correction from 21 June 2007, submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. The government accepted the amendment, with a correction from 21 June 2007. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a correction from 21 June 2007, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 151, against one, it did not vote 43, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 5, Section 3, 5, 12, 26 and 46 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Alexander Marton. The government didn't accept the amendment with the correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 131, 59 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 5 of the amendments were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 133, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 12 amendments were submitted by MP Borka Vukic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 131, five out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 12 amendments were submitted jointly by the MPs Lasslo Varga and Pastor Balint. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 125, they did not vote four out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, he divided 12 and 18 amendments, with a correction, by MP Milorad Belic. The government didn't accept the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 71, against 115, it did not vote 9, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 5, 13 and 48 of the amendments were submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 145, voted 50 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 15 amendments were submitted by MP Milorad Krstin. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 132 abstentions, three were not voting four, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 5, the 15 amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, there was no vote of 8 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 5, the 16 amendments were submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. The government has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 131 against 45, it did not vote 19 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 5, sections 16 and 21 of the amendments were submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 131, there was no vote of 8 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 21 amendments were submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 130, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 23 amendments were submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 131, seven out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 5, 24.6 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. The government has accepted an amendment with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 133, against 43, the two abstentions, were not voted 17 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On article 5, 25 amendments were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, he divided the 12th and 26th amendments, with corrections, by MP Nadika Momirov. The government didn't accept the amendment with the corrections. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with corrections, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 157, 15 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 30 amendments were submitted by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 132, 7 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 5, 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 40 amendments were submitted by MP Zdravko Topalovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 133, 5 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 48 amendments were submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 5, section 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Toman. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 131, seven out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 50 amendments were submitted by MP Elena Christmas-Talijan. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 133, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 51 amendments were submitted by MP Veljko Kovacevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 131, he did not vote 21 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 5, the 55 amendments were submitted by MP Bozidar Koprivica. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 131, six of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5, 57 amendments were submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 132, 7 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 145, voted 48, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 144 abstentions, voted 48, a total of 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 133, five of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 131, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 195 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 146, there were no 45 votes, a total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 124, 9 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 146, voted 49 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 130, there was no vote of 8 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 131, seven out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Saša Valjarevic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 131, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Nikolic - Vukajlović submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, 9 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Ninoslav Dimitrijevic and Miletic Mihajlovic jointly submitted the 22nd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 61, against 132, two of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 130, 9 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 132, six out of 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 128, ten of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the 2007 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 133, against 62, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget. Since we adopted the Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives agreement to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations. a) I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for the 2007 staff. For 131 against 16, one abstention, two of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2007 employees. (b) I am putting to the vote the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Farmers for 2007. For 132, against 15, they did not vote three out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for farmers for 2007. (v) I would like to put the motion for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance of Independent Works for 2007. For 133, against 15, two of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for the Year 2007. g) I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service Financial Plan for 2007. For 133, against 15, two of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2007. d) I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the 2007 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. For 132, against 15, they did not vote three out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2007 Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you for your work. I'm scheduled to resume the session on Tuesday, June 26th, at 10:00 p.m. Have a nice weekend.
