ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 135 national MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Predrag Umičević, Vojislav Mihailovic, Meho Omerovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Aleksandar Marton. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (specificity) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the least we expected when you opened the session was to apologize to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who are waiting for you for almost 20 minutes to begin the session, although we could have already started, because yesterday's session was led by Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic, and you were here on time, instead of being here at the B92 radio station, on the show "Cagefinger", where you made a series of lies. You said that Natasha Jovanovic led the Assembly yesterday in front of an almost empty hall, and look, Mr. President, how many MPs have been waiting for you to start running this assembly. You have also brought forth a series of lies when it comes to this congregation and its work, blaming the congregation, or all of us, for the laws that had to be passed have not been passed, which is not true. To say the least, it is a grave lie and you as speaker of the assembly, as a man who is to protect the integrity of the Serbian Parliament, blames the MPs, although you know that MPs have not at any time caused any delay in any law. You know that responsibility for this is borne by the ruling coalition. I invite you, Mr. President, to apologize to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because you know well that a series of draft laws have been reached by the party you belong to, the DS, and that these laws do not go into procedure because their adoption prevents your coalition partner, the DSS, or Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. You know it well, and you accuse the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or MPs. Also, Mr. President, you are accusing the SRS of obstructing the work of the Serbian Parliament. I ask you, Mr. President, is it an attempt to return to this country the Constitution, the laws, that respect the Constitution, as well as the laws, from the institutions that would have to do this first, or is it more responsible to call on those institutions to respect the Constitution and the law or to indicate that the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, have been violated? I think it's the other way around, that's the basic thing that you have to take care of. I'm sorry, if you'll excuse me, since we're not gonna be answering the Rules of Procedure, let me just finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8613	Mr. Todorovic, you have one more time since no one else answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8614	Just a moment, since you don't have another chance to make a deal between yourselves, let me wait for the heads of the parties in the coalition to agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8615	Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8616	Mr. President, we have shown you a serious violation of the Constitution, and of the Law, and of the Rules of Procedure, in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, believing that there was an accident. The only way to correct this error was by respecting the Law, or by respecting the Constitution. We warned you immediately, on 9 October, when the session of the City Assembly ended. However, you have shown that you are not interested in correcting what has happened, thus showing that it is made up, because you have no other ability to remain in power than to violate the Constitution and the law. It's already causing a certain problem, which we'll be facing very quickly. It shows, gentlemen, that you are not prepared for a democratic procedure, which implies that you go to elections, or, if you go to elections, that you are prepared to do certain things in order to remain in power. We've had such a situation, but I warn you, Mr. President, that you're responsible, because you're preparing a field where there will be a problem, or abuse in the election. I can't trust you anymore, because all of this you're doing in the Belgrade City Assembly, what you're doing in the Serbian Parliament, is saying that you're ready and that you probably call the elections past the Constitution, because you haven't passed the laws that need to be passed in order to call the elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. Because you're only interested in elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, because you think it suits you right now. You will not be interested in the Constitution at all, nor in the Constitutional Law, nor in other laws, but only in your assumption that December 9th, when it is assumed that elections for the president of Serbia will be called, is the best date for you, and therefore you are always trying to push through these proposals of the laws that are currently in the procedure, so that you may have the opportunity to call at the first session the elections for the president of Serbia. Do as you intend, but know that you are already producing the consequences you will have, not only when you choose, but I suppose you will have the opportunity to solve in your own party the problems some have produced for you. You do not have the strength to stand up to it, to get rid of such a way of working, and in such a way you give us the legitimacy that in the only possible way we have, which is to draw attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, we try to bring you back to the respect of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, not only of this assembly, but also of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8617	I thank you, Mr. Todorovic. I have never accused the Assembly of being guilty of delaying the law, and I have always explicitly said that this is a problem with the legislative activity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I owe an apology to the National Assembly for being late. I'm sure we'll make it up to you today with more intense work. (Dragan Todorovic from the post: We give up our discussion on the Rules of Procedure. ) As I understand it, the MPs who signed up yesterday to speak about the Rules of Procedure gave up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic also appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8618	Dear President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues, Article 225 of the 3rd and 4th centuries. Very briefly, we have already lauded with one view that representatives of certain political parties elected in the National Assembly, for example, as vice-president of the National Assembly, are not, as others think, equal, or equal enough in the performance of their duties and obligations. I warn you of the Constitution, the Law and good parliamentary practice. First, after the establishment of this high house, one claim was made about how Mr. Radojko Obradovic feels when he sits with Miss Natasa Jovanovic and Mr. Mrkonjic. Then, the other day, my esteemed colleague Milan Stanimirovic, whom I very much respect, visiting the TV show Studio B, said - when I open my eyes and look at Natasa Jovanovic, Milutin Mrkonjic and Borko Vukic... etc. Finally, you, Mr. President, also expressed your reservations last night as to who is chairing the National Assembly. I exchanged harsh words with my colleagues from the SRS yesterday, but that has nothing to do with the principle. So the vice-presidents of the National Assembly were elected by the votes of all the MPs, and even if not, they had received a sufficient number of votes from the MPs to become vice presidents of this high house. Mrs Borka Vukic, acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, chaired the constitutional session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I must say that she did a great job, although you have had some discomfort, but we are referring to what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So it's about time that what I once called "the political segregation project" stopped. Here are the MPs, we are elected citizens, and the vice presidents of the National Assembly were elected by the MPs, as well as the president of the National Assembly. There is no more equal among the equal. In that sense, I would ask that, in the public exposure of the MPs, the high officials of this house, it no longer be a subject, if possible. If not possible, we will fight with all political means to resist such a sick political stance. This is beyond parliamentary practice and beyond the good practices that exist in every parliament in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8619	Thank you. You're giving up, thank you very much. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Justice Committee are now proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8620	According to a priority established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, is far more important than baby diapers, and from value added taxes, and from the Constitutional Court, and from Kosovo and Metohija status. It is simply the most important topic -- how to bring the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia into line with the new constitution. On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. I asked to delete Section 3, which is the position the government believes should no longer be in the Government Act, which reads: "The new government is elected by the same procedure as the Government is chosen after the establishment of the National Assembly". Let me tell you, I was counting on that amendment to be adopted by the Government, because there's no reason to erase this from the existing Article 4. Why? Because it only helps to understand and better apply what is in previous attitudes. The member does not regulate the start and termination of the government's mandate. Because of these uninformed, I must say that the Constitution requires the adoption of a law on government, but what concerns the government's mandate and, in general, the status of government, which is regulated in several provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, should be regulated by the Law on Government and, in part, by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The set of all these norms in these three regulations (Constitution, Law and Rules) gives us the right definition of what the Government is, what is its position, its status, its authority and all other issues that are important. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, the National Assembly - the government of the Republic of Serbia - is particularly important. I was very interested in why the government didn't accept this amendment. We got the government's opinion, which says, "Amendment is not accepted, because deadlines for each government's election are... Now I stop, because you only specify deadlines, and the procedure is not only a provision on the deadline, but when it's said "by the same procedure" as the government is chosen, then the word "proceeds" means everything - and who suggests, as it suggests, who decides, most of which decides and all other things concerning the election process. You have focused on only one question of the election process, and that is the deadline. You're absolutely right. You have quoted the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Art. 109, 130, 131 and 132. So this first member, article 109. -it's the government's choice, and 130, 131, and 132 are cases where the government ceases its mandate before the time it was elected - the vote of mistrust, the vote of trust, the impediment and so on. So, you've only focused on one question, and that's the question of the deadline, while the position we're seeking to remain in this article is not touching the question of the deadline, but, by its formulation, affirmation of those provisions of the Constitution. He's not in college with the Constitution at all. Why is it necessary for that attitude to remain in this Article of the 16th original text of the law? So it wouldn't be, exactly, this kind of dance, how often it is in this political life when it's supposed to be applied to some constitutional norm or some legal decision. A good example of this is exactly what happens to the president of the National Assembly. He is, in practice, from the election of president of the National Assembly in the position of doing everything under fear and great stress. Why? There's an undefined government that can't profile its political demands. Why? There are those who hold 20 metres of asphalt under the left mouse, there are those great experts for money, there are great experts for positions, they cannot agree on a simple question of how to conduct negotiations, who better to take pictures, who will be present more. So we have one government that doesn't have a political stance. She has an interesting attitude. The interesting attitude is quite selective and paved, but it has nothing to do with the government under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have a president of the Republic who reads a lot more polls on how beautiful, smart, 'kissing his mother', and whether he can make another step at the right time to improve his factions in the Democratic Party. Then, of course, the president's pressure -- you're going to call the election then, in so many hours, you're going to call the election for this, for this, you can't, and then we have one parliamentary, parliamentary majority, which estimates your positions. In particular, Belgrade is the problem these days. Of course, DS and DSS are in a coalition in Belgrade. A billion euros should be spent during 2007. What the mayor will do to them when there are parcels there, there is a city manager, who has been completely unjustly bypassed over the past two months in these stories. There's talk of 1,000 squares, and I'm not telling you, that I'm not convincing all the newspaper articles that point to what's going on in Belgrade. Then we have a constitutional law, in which Article 12 states that all existing laws remain in force until their alignment with the new constitution. Then, we have a president of the National Assembly, who, under fear, interprets the integrity of the constitutional norm, who, under fear, interprets the provisions on deadlines, who, under fear of counting on the 14th, 15th day, well, if he can stretch for 15 days to three months, would be fine. That is why it is necessary in our laws, where certain provisions of the Constitution are discussed, there are as many specific norms as possible, and as little as possible what is referred to as 'the default', as it stands in this response. The answer, Mr. Markovic, was written by someone who doesn't know what the procedure is, because he focused on something that's only a deadline. Formation of time limits in Articles 130, 131, 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that provision of the deadline, that is the second sentence of all these views, is written in a completely different sense, in the sense that the President of the National Assembly is disbanding the National Assembly unless a deadline is respected, so that this provision that we advocate to remain in the Law on Government is fully acceptable. She just explains, so we don't get into the kind of situation the president is in, doing his job under a lot of stress. Our problem is that what is clear in the law has no priority, but priority has some interests; not politics, but personal interests, collective interests, and they are reduced to something most brutal, which is the number in front of the dinar or euro mark. We will probably not have, under the law, elections to elect Belgrade mayors just because of the amount of the Belgrade city budget. When it comes to low construction, no one lives to control whether there are so many thousands of cubes or less. In the case of high-building, some reconstruction can be made, in order to assess how much material is required, but in the case of low-building it is difficult. That's why it's all paved up, all those streets that went through 10 minutes ago, so we have that minister -- 20 meters of asphalt under the mouse, double-clicks, picks up that asphalt and goes to the new location where they're going to take the picture. Let me remind you, you in power, that in the previous elections we had a strange situation, the case is before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Elections were called in Belgrade, but the presidents of the Barajevo municipality and other city municipalities were selected differently. One was elected directly by the citizens, and later all the presidents of all the city municipalities were elected from city halls. The procedure is before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you, in the second half of 2004 and throughout 2005, Vojislav Kostunica had called early local elections in 20 and some municipalities. Then you went to pave the alleys, the streets, and then the whole government was in a local campaign. That logic no longer applies to you in 2007. Why? Because we warned you a year and a half ago, eventually it will have to come out in the light of the day that spending of budgets, the Republic of Serbia's budget for a local campaign. They must also be seen by airports, and those streets, when the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget funded local elections, early local elections. You see, that logic is now abandoned. Now the president, who lives in great fear, says - general local elections, the category does not exist, even in political terminology. If Sonja Licht told you, it's some kind of outdated termology, it's an old book, it doesn't exist anymore. The elections should be discussed for the election of committees, not for the mayor, but what is worth, is the interest -- how to build up what little remains in the 2007 budget for the city of Belgrade. You do not have the candidate as mayor, to withdraw that yellowish, redish, as it was, that Gilas, is weak, endures resignations within the party; however, he has now reached the National Investment Plan, so no one can live with the money. Yes, that's right, you DS aren't informed because you belong to another faction. Gilas is in that gray eminence. There is Vlahovic, however, he escapes, and Djelic, there is a new category, and there is evidence that those sincere Democrats, who think about the Democratic Party, are no longer in the Assembly, are angry and will not come because they know that DS is under forced management. However, I'm conducting your bankruptcy, but, slowly, it will come on the agenda. Yesterday was good, you came out, I hope you'll understand very quickly all the problems you have and cannot stop. That's the problem, which can't stop these problems, and it's going to escalate more and more every day. So, Mr. Markovic, you're a representative of the government, I really don't see any reason for this government's opinion -- not to accept this amendment, so before the amendment just helps to better interpret the relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It should remain in Article 16 because in that part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it has not suffered a major change.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8621	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic and then the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dulic, I call on you to exercise your right to the Rules of Procedure, Article 98 of Rule 3, and at 11 o'clock to terminate the work of the National Assembly, because a session of the Defence and Security Committee is scheduled. We expect the arrival of Interior Minister Dragan Jocic. Because when the Committee was scheduled, however, from the third attempt, because it was so hinted to him and asked for MPs of the ruling coalition, as well as the minister himself, Mr Ivica Dacic could not know when the session would be. Let me remind you that, first of all, the Committee is scheduled for June 1st of this year, then, for October 17th, and then, again, by the minister, it was cancelled for today, 24th. We need, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, to tell you that you are not members of the Committee on Defence and Security to discuss the MUP report; today only the work of the Ministry has been scheduled for tomorrow, and a session was scheduled for us to be addressed by the Director of BIA, but it has been cancelled for next week for the period of work from 1 June 2006 to 30 September 2007. These reports, received only by the MPs who are members of the Committee on Defence and Security, contain all segments of the work of the MUP and the state of security in our country. We, Serbian radicals, have objections to a report delivered by the Ministry of Defence and Security, but I believe that other colleagues, who want to vote for the report, comment on it, or MPs who are not members of the Defence and Security Committee, want to attend and have questions that they want to ask the minister, to take advantage of that opportunity. I must remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the minister is obliged to submit the report twice a year, as well as the director of the BIA, and that these are the only two situations, the only two opportunities that only this committee has, because his work has been so arranged, that the MPs and the members of the Committee discuss vital issues for our country. What is more important than Serbia's security situation today? In the situation we are in, because of the increasing threats and the intention to take away Kosovo and Metohija, because of economic crime, corruption, robbery, all of this, as well as many other cases and various acts that threaten the security of Serbian citizens, and that they should interest not only us, the Committee members, but other MPs. Mr Dulic, since it is the only way to leave the session, and you see that we have a lot of obligations and jobs, to discuss amendments to the amendment to the Law on Government and to supplement the agenda, and it is inappropriate to hold such an important session in the middle of the session, I urge you to exercise your right to Article 98(3), which says that the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may decide to interrupt in other cases, because the previous two are already listed, when there is no quorum or in another situation when the Assembly concludes it. I think it is the interest of all of us to reach such a conclusion and that, based on my clear argument, you are suggesting to the MPs that we go uninterruptedly to discuss this important issue, the report, and to ask questions to Mr. Dragan Jocic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8623	Thank you. Here you are, with respect to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Lasslo Varga has come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8624	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 226, and on behalf of Article 231. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. According to that article, the MPs of the national minorities have the right to speak and to deliver written documents in the work of the National Assembly to the National Assembly in their native language. We signaled more than six months ago to the secretary of the National Assembly at the time that we wanted to use this right. In the meantime, we didn't have the opportunity and we didn't want to abuse this right in any way, but it's been eight months since the constitution of the National Assembly. For this reason, on October 18, we sent a letter to the president of the National Assembly, asking for the use of this right to be possible, but in a way that would satisfy the essence, not this form that exists in the Rules of Procedure. In fact, we would like the documents brought by the National Assembly to be translated into the languages of members of the national minorities. So, it is not a priority for us to use our language in the work of the National Assembly in our presentations, nor is it a priority to submit our draft laws or amendments in our languages, we believe that this would make it difficult for the work of the National Assembly, but at the same time we think it would be very good for the documents that have already been translated into the languages of the national minorities. Of course, this is not possible without the organization of a permanent translation service within the National Assembly, but we feel that this would be necessary to achieve three goals in this way. On the one hand, in practice, one right that exists in the Rules of Procedure, but is not used, or is not applied. On the other hand, in this way, members of national minorities would be allowed to read all those laws adopted by the National Assembly in their native languages. On the third hand, the service would involve members of national minorities who would be able to do those translations, thus improving the disastrous representation of national minorities in the state administration. So, I request information from the president of the National Assembly, has this letter reached him and is he ready and within what time to meet this request? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8625	Thank you. It's arrived and the translation service is being organized from Monday and the translation of documents you requested into Hungarian begins. On the amendment, it's the People's MP Goran Rakovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8626	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, we have a strange situation on the subject of this amendment. Namely, the government has proposed that one of the views of the basic law be deleted, and the amendment that counterpart Krasic has submitted is to delete what the government already needs to delete, i.e. to remain the original text. In order not to be unclear, both for the MPs and for the citizens of Serbia, I think we should go from Article 16 to which this amendment applies. Article 16 regulates the start and termination of the Government's mandate. The Member himself, in paragraph 1, determines that the government's mandate begins to run from swearing to the National Assembly, then, paragraph 2 regulates the oath, the government intervened on this occasion, proposing a new text of the oath, paragraph 3 refers to cases of termination of the Government's mandate, and Article 4, which, in particular, this amendment, refers to - the new government is elected by the same procedure as the Government's chosen after the establishment of the National Assembly. Kola Krasic, with his amendment, asks that this item 4 remain in unchanged form in the original text of the Law. I do not believe that this amendment should be accepted, however, by the government did not support it, for the simple reason that, in the meantime, between the adoption of the basic text of the Law and the laws that we have on the agenda today, on amendments and additions to the Law on Government, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in several its members is important to regulate the matter to which this amendment applies, namely, regulates the matter of the beginning of the end of the government's term of office. In fact, after the parliamentary elections, a 90-day deadline was set in which it is necessary to establish a new government and thus build, after the elections, first the Assembly - within 30 days, then, within 90 days - the government, as an institution, so that the state could function normally. As for the other reasons for ending the government's term of office during the term of office of the Republic Assembly, i.e. the government elected after the elections, deadlines are significantly different. That is the basic reason why this amendment should be rejected. In fact, the Constitution clearly provided for the reasons why the government's mandate could cease, for example, by voting no confidence in the government or government member, or when the government asks for a vote of confidence, so it is not given confidence by the Parliament, or, in the event of the Prime Minister's resignation, when the government falls as well. The deadlines for choosing a new government are now quite different. It's not 90 days, the amount of time it's set after the election is over. In these cases, a period of 30 days is foreseen, which is significantly shorter than the original. With the remainder of Article 4, as proposed by counterpart Krasic with his amendment, we would in fact have an unconstitutional situation, this attitude would be contrary to the Constitution, which is unacceptable, unsustainable. That is why the government has proposed not to accept this amendment. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports the government's position on the issue, and in voting day it will vote not to accept this and this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8627	The Republic has a National MP, Zoran Krasic, for three minutes, and then, three minutes, MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8628	I had to answer because there was something I didn't say, and my amendment creates an unconstitutional state. Please, if you interpret it that way, interpret it privately, but publicly, my amendment does not create an unconstitutional state. My amendment prevents you from interpreting so many arbitrary provisions of the Constitution and the Government Act, that you don't bring us into the situation we've already been in, that this state can do without the Assembly, that without the President, that it can without the Government, that it can without the military, that it can without the police; this state can do without everything, but it has to have a democratic block. He escapes, escapes, so, of course, he escapes. They say the government's election process comes down to date. What do they defend their position on? Something written in Article 130(4). The second sentence says - if the National Assembly does not elect a new government within 30 days of the vote of no confidence, the President of the Republic is obliged to disband the National Assembly and call the elections. I draw your attention to this provision. I draw your attention to the following provision, which is Article 131(4), second sentence in that position - if the National Assembly does not elect a new government within 30 days of the date of non-voting of trust, the President of the Republic is obliged to disband the National Assembly. Article 132(4), same, second sentence - if the National Assembly does not elect a new government within 30 days of the date of the resignation of the Prime Minister, etc. What's the difference in members? The difference is that it is the basis for the end of the government's term of office, the vote of mistrust, the failure of trust and the resignation of the government. It's 30 days. What procedure is it chosen in? What's the procedure? What if the president doesn't propose a candidate, if he doesn't respect his obligation to propose a new candidate for a new government? We had that situation, remember, from January 27th, when the elections were over, when you were elected as Government. What month? Of course I left this for last. I didn't want to tell you everything right away. I left it for last. I've got more, when you get out, to tell you what's gonna happen, how it's gonna be. So, in time, I warn you, as I warned you in time about the mayor's election. Not wrong, but I informed you correctly, so you said later in some places...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8629	I'm sorry I cut you. Thank you very much. On the occasion of this amendment, MP Milica Radovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8630	Just one correction, my colleague Goran Rakovic did not escape, he went to the Committee session, simply, for Mr Krasic [[Invader from the O.R.: How then to be a session of the Committee...]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8631	That's right, I agree with you, let's get one thing straight. So, I agree that it shouldn't, when topics of this importance are at board meetings, it should be during the session, but it's scheduled. Second, there is no need for a session of the Assembly to be interrupted because of the Committee’s duration. Here, I suggest that the president of the Committee cancel the session at 11 o'clock and schedule it in 14 hours, when it's a break, and we solve that problem. Don't ask me to interrupt the assembly session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8632	I also reported on the amendment of an esteemed colleague, Mr. Zoran Krasic. I believe that this amendment is in sharp contrast with the Constitution, and for this very reason it should not be accepted. You know very well that the Constitution knows two types of deadlines. One is 90 days to elect the first government after the establishment of the National Assembly, and it is significantly longer than any other deadline, which is 30 days, for the choice of each other government, but in the same assembly of the National Assembly. The very intention of proposing these amendments and supplementing the Law was to bring this law into line with the constitution itself, and that is precisely why this provision of the Law is changing. The constitution makes it clear that if the National Assembly votes not to trust the government, then the President of the Republic initiates a procedure to elect a new government and it should be elected within 30 days. If not selected within 30 days, then the Assembly will disband and the elections will be debated. Any amendment aimed at amending this provision of this law would absolutely be contrary to the Constitution and therefore this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8633	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petronijevic reported. About the amendment, you can, but first it'll be the minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8634	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, (SRS ambassadors leaving the hall) so it is clear to me what Mr. Krasic's intensity is, but if Mr. Krasic wanted to arrange the procedure with his amendment, he could have suggested two words in the amendment itself and it would be arranged. In this case, it is impossible to accept the amendment, because we would get a 90-day deadline for the election of the new government after the end of the first government's mandate, following the constitution of the Assembly, which would be contrary to the three members of the Constitution and with the basic idea we have, which is that it is not allowed to extend the commission after the end of the term of office of one government to three months. We just have to have a clean situation. If one government loses trust, the government falls, we cannot let it go to 90 days of negotiation and negotiation; the goal is to cut that deadline to 30 days. If there is a majority, let the new government vote, and if there is no majority, we go to the elections. Let's not have 90 days of government that's stopped the mandate. This is the essence of what the constitutionalist, or constitutionalist, has suggested in the Constitution, contains that provision in three members of the Constitution, and it is now merely transposed into the government law. Mr. Krasic is afraid for the procedure. I think it's a domain of politics. The procedure is prescribed by Article 127. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The procedure is not disputed, but I repeat, Mr Krasic intended to talk here, on the legal side, and on this detail, he could add only one word to his amendment, to say - according to the procedure provided for in Article 127. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, I really don't think there's any dispute over the procedure. I think it's a matter of just politicizing this thing. It is very important that this amendment is not accepted and that the deadline of 30 days is indeed a deadline for both MPs and political parties to decide very quickly after the end of a government's mandate. Everything else would lead us to a situation - the mandate would cease, then three months of negotiations on the Assembly, then the disbandment of the Assembly, then the new elections. We would be in a situation that for a whole year, eight or nine months, there would be months of turmoil, conversations, agreements, etc., and we all know, in general, at this point, all of us, as political factors, need to in some way be suggested by the legislator that negotiations, processes must take place significantly faster than they have been before. At the very least, we all have a negative relationship with the fact that even now, after the election, we've negotiated this long about the election of a new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8635	Right on line, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8636	Mr. Dulic, we're gonna have to go back to school for little ducks. So, ga-ga, let's see what's in the Constitution and what's in the law. There's a new government law on the agenda. Why is it new? Because, regardless of the aggregate state, the government of the democratic bloc brought it in 2005. It's your law. Don't attack your law. So Article 16(4) is authentically yours. In particular, it was written by Zoran Balinovac, defended by Zoran Balinovac. The DSS, with its satellites, voted warmly for that member. Article 16 of the Law states: "The new government is elected according to the same procedure as the Government is chosen after the establishment of the National Assembly". The emphasis is on the procedure, not the deadline. The deadline for the new government, in the situations referred to in Articles 131, 132 and 133, is set out in Article 4, second sentence, in a completely different sense, as the obligation of the President of the Republic to proceed with the consultations, to initiate the procedure, but the second sentence speaks of the time limit to be chosen, or the consequences if no new government is elected within 30 days. So, the story of the consequences. The emphasis is on disbanding the National Assembly. This position in Article 16 fully supports everything that you have changed ahead in Article 16. It retains the principle: the government's mandate continues while the National Assembly's mandate runs. The government can change in these situations, when the mandate ends before time, but it is an emphasis on the process, not on time. Those who have been alertly informed interpret the procedure only with a deadline, but here the deadline is given for disbanding the National Assembly. What is in the position of Article 16(4) is to verify what kind of procedure should be to elect a new government. So it's the same as the last one, except it's not 90 days, it's 30 days. This attitude doesn't touch the deadline, and you're talking about the deadline. Someone else smart said that this position of a member of your 16th law is not in line with the new constitution. Prove it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8637	I am informing the National Assembly that a session of the Defence and Security Committee will be held, instead of 11 o'clock, at 14 o'clock. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you have helped me explain this amendment to you by giving you an earlier presentation for the speaker of this assembly, because you have spoken, in fact, of what all the government, which is in the resignation or which is voted mistrust, which, simply, has ceased its mandate, cannot work. The essence of my amendment is exactly that. In order not to stay away, I must say that I disagree with you in what you said in the explanation of Mr Krasic's amendments. The amendment speaks of procedure, and the government's response speaks of deadlines. The procedure does not endanger the deadlines at all. Nothing more. I'm still not commenting. I will return to the amendment I have submitted, on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, to Article 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act, where Article 17 paragraph 2 of the Basic Law is amended. This story can be thin. Because of the public, I have to tell you what the point is. Article 17. The government law speaks of the authority of the government and the government member after the term of office of government has ceased, and it is precise in the previous article that the government ceases its term of office with the end of the National Assembly's term of office, the vote of mistrust, the failure of trust, the resignation of the government, the vote of the Prime Minister, and the resignation of the Prime Minister. These are cases where the government's mandate ends. Exactly, Article 17 speaks of what the government's powers are after the government's term of office has ceased. And so far, this has been regulated in the law, that the government to which the term of office has ceased can only do current affairs and cannot propose to the National Assembly laws and other general acts, nor lay down regulations, unless their adoption is related to the legal deadline or imposes the needs of the state, defence interests or natural, economic or technical disasters. That doesn't change with this proposal. The second position of Article 17 of the basic law reads: "The government cannot appoint officials in the authorities of the state administration, and in the exercise of the founding rights of the Republic of Serbia it can only appoint or that consent to the appointment of acting directors and members of the board of directors and supervisors." I'll be in position two. So, it is very decadent and precise that such a government, which has stopped the mandate, is therefore gone, no longer exists, remains in the group to do only the necessary technical tasks, and just now Mr. Minister himself said it had to be a short - to - a month. Simply, the government had no right to appoint officials in state bodies. I agree with that. However, what does the government propose in amendments to the law? She suggests that the word 'functioners' be deleted, and to add'state officials in position'. There's already a question for the minister - why? The explanation is that civil servants are no longer officials under the Civil Service Act, I speak as it says in the Law. Basically, you remember, three or four months ago, this government extended their mandate to be officials until July, retroactively next year, and will likely extend further. So she didn't pick them after the competition, even though some of the competitions were over, which led to a water story -- expertise in front of politics. Simply, by political criteria, by the divisions carried out within the ruling coalition, they have placed all state officials in positions and it is only a formal story that it is the application of the Law, where they are independent, are not officials etc. Mr. Minister, we had a question for you when there was a debate in principle. I believe you have your answers saved today. How many secretaries of state are there in the government, how many assistants, how many secretaries, not to add up, you know who gets into the state's office? So, on the one hand, civil servants are not officials, as the formal law says, and in the practice of this government, given the political divisions within the government, and this is the basic characteristic of the government, the party interest is above all. So they divided the ministries, so they shared resolutions, so they shared public enterprises, so they shared power in municipalities, so they agreed and divided who would be mayor in Belgrade without a election, so they agreed and shared who would be deputy V.D. the mayor, who does not exist in the law, etc. On the other hand, the word "functioners" has been deleted, which means that the government can set up officials. I'm asking why? Why is it that under this basic law she's never been able to set them up before, and now she can? The reason it says it's small is that it's only the Secretary of State and the Secretary-General of Government. I'd really like you to tell me how many secretary of state there are, because I'm afraid the secretary of state has more now than there ever was an assistant minister. How many of this famous ministry, which covers the entire government, for the economy, has the secretary of state? Tell the public. I was told six, but I don't know, I'm not sure. You'd better say how many there are. What's the point? The point is that the government whose term of office has ceased is no longer in existence and is no longer doing those tasks set out in the law until a new assembly is established or a new government is elected, so within a month. What are the reasons for giving the Government the authority to appoint officials, or state secretaries, for that month? We think, given that it has become a feature of this government's proposals for legislation being unclear and that they can be interpreted differently, yesterday we're going to have a debate about it, and we're going to continue during the day, whenever it comes to such a matter, the government is obviously preparing some marifetteluk, again in line with party interests, in line with the fact that it also provides for a period of setting up functionaries. It's a free story that stands out for them when the minister, they're in office while the minister is. Why set up new ones for that month? What's behind that, Mr. Minister? That's the point. So, what was wrong with you in the previous law, where it was precise that the functioners couldn't be set up? Mr. Minister, the government whose term of office has ceased cannot appoint anyone. It would be right, and that would be fair, and not to add something that, in fact, only formally meets the legal requirements, which are civil servants in a position, against which we have nothing against, although they are not officials, they are officials in the current government policy and what they have done, while leaving officials at the same time, even though the basic law has made you bound that you cannot make them either. What's changed now that they're supposed to be set up in a month? We're against it, and that's why we've tabled the amendment. We believe that the government that has suspended the mandate cannot place officials or civil servants in office.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8639	The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8640	Mr. Petronievich, in principle, I really understand your intensities regarding this amendment, that is, this member, and I will try to explain to you what this is about. So, indeed, the circle of people that the Government can set after the term of office is very small, refers to the officials, and since the Law on civil servants was passed, de facto, and those who once called themselves officials are no longer officials, but civil servants are in office. I think it's a big difference. Now imagine the situation to stop the government's mandate, and that, for some reason, the Secretary General of the Government resigned. We'd be in a situation where the government works without the secretary general. Why? Honestly, why couldn't the government set up the secretary general for the past month, if there were anyone to work, because it's a very important job? It's just, you see, that's the point, nothing else. He can't outlive the government anyway. None of these people can outlive the government, nor can the Secretary of State. That's my explanation, I think that's the point, and that's why I don't need to accept your amendment. When asked about the number of secretary of state, I really don't know how to answer you. I think on the government site, every ministry, that's what there is. I can only answer for my ministry - we have two secretary of state. In the form of parliamentary questions you can address, I think you should address the General Secretariat of the Government, and, at the very least, if you contact me, I will pass it on to the competent one, and the competent one will answer you. In any case, the State Department is not competent to answer. However, I understand that question, so I will make sure you get an answer if it comes in the form of a parliamentary matter. I hope you're satisfied with this answer, and if you stay on the amendment, we, unfortunately, cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8641	The word has a National MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, then a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8642	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary has already explained, most of all, what I'm about to say, but I think, because of the people who are following this transmission, that thing should be fully explained. Under the Law on Government, all those who were put on the job in the authorities of the state administration were officials. Meanwhile, two more new laws have been passed, the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, and according to these laws, the difference has been made between civil servants and officials. What's the big difference, anyway? In that government officials continue to place government seats in the state administration, and civil servants are elected towards the competition, for a period of five years. So, people who are co-established by the government have exactly as much mandate as the government is going on. Under these two laws, officials are the only state secretaries in the ministries and general secretary of government. It is clear that their duration is as long as the ministry, i.e. the minister; they tie their careers to a minister or, general secretary of government -- to the government. They can't outlive it under any conditions, and that's why it's very precise. Of course, civil servants, in that case, outlive the government because they're tied to a particular place, a job, not a government. It is perfectly normal for a government whose term of office has ceased, in some circumstances, to be in a situation that someone who is a functioner cannot, at a certain time interval, carry out his duty. Mr. Minister listed one, and there are even more drastic examples, such as death and the like, and in that case it is very important that such an important place be covered. That's why it's perfectly normal to let the government set up a functioner, because he can't outlive it anyway. So let it last for 15 days, a month, three months, but it's simply about the duration of the government. That's why I think it's very important not to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8643	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go, replica, MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8644	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 101. Miloš Aligrudić, from the post: On what basis? Article 101, misread, Mr. Aligruditch. Make a deal with Aligrudic if I may have a word and speak now. I ask, does Mr. Aligrudic allow me to speak? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why am I misread? From the answer given by Mr. Minister and the previous MP, by supplementing the law by a provision - for civil servants in office, I agree with that and it is not disputed, and it should, because it is a different formulation, but I have explained what it is so far in law that officials cannot be placed in government. It was the same situation that could stop their function, that something could happen to them, etc. Now he's coming back, leaving the government with a chance to set up. Then I ask the question – why? It is not true what Mr. Minister said in that response – the Secretary-General of the Government went somewhere. Well, he's got an assistant secretary general. Secretary of State? Well, there's a bunch of ministerial assistants. It's not true that you can question the process. My question wasn't, when I talked about it, whether to add state officials to the position? My question was, why are you erasing officials, when it worked so well in the previous law? Why are you erasing, or leaving the government with the possibility of setting them up? That's what this is about, that's what we need to pay attention to. Mr. Secretary needs to answer why, because this is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8645	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8646	Thank you, Mr. President. I was under the impression that a colleague of ours called in the Rules of Procedure, so I wanted to give him a head start. I see that taking care of a man is the most important thing in this government, the need to protect party officials and parties is definitely the primary thing in relation to everything. I must tell you that everyone laughs, and fellow MPs laugh, at least that part of the opposition that doesn't believe what the government is saying, and I mean the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when they see how tightly the representatives of the government are behind some positions that logically cannot be explained, but absolutely, officials must be protected at all costs. No - that the minister exits and says - the government he has suspended his mandate has 30 days to establish, if not built, the elections are being debated, etc. So, the government has suspended its mandate, but there's a need to appoint someone there as a function. There's a need. The government, past, had experience, had no time to accept Ahtisaari's plan, which envisioned an independent Kosovo, and should appoint a official. It's a matter of life or death. If, God forbid, someone doesn't name himself in the last three months, it'll be a disaster. Look, for a government that's already fallen a disaster is if someone else doesn't get a job in the next three or four months! There is an epochal contribution from this government, that these legal solutions, which improve the situation, give the government the opportunity to appoint others as officials. I think it's so epic that it shouldn't stay within the framework of the National Assembly, it should expand it further, that our neighbors from the environment know that we are productive when it comes to protecting their party officials. Col. Milisav Petronijevic made very logical arguments why it should not, when the government had already fallen, when it had stopped its mandate, let the officials be named. Listen, we know exactly how many state secretaries can be, so there's been an increase in the number of state secretaries in some ministries. Why? Because they're party needs. What makes you think you don't know that we MPs, colleagues, don't know that these are party needs? The party needs to employ two, three, five, six secretaries of state. After all, the government has increased so much the number of people working in the government that it is abnormal that the government in resignation is also increasing the number of those it has received over the past few months, plus another six months, which will be about state spending when its mandate ends. And that's something that's going to be about state spending. So, there's no point in functioning the state, the point is to take care of a party official, put him in a rank at the last minute, give him a certain function, and then give him a legal basis so that for a few more months he can get out of our country, which, in general, no offense, I won't use words related to agriculture, to provide financial resources. There's no rational reason. You see what our country is turning into. It turns into a party, the so-called democratic state, divided by party interests. The example works, this business deal. It was not enough to reach an agreement for someone to be the head of a public firm from that party and that party, but rather to form a board of directors to provide most of the party, or that elected director, so the director, deputy director from the same party, is elected, with the majority. Why? It would make sense that there is a colourful representative of the coalition, but obviously he wants to be provided just in case. We'll do the right thing, but it's good to be controlled by our own, so someone else doesn't accidentally put their paws on that story. In addition, several thousand people in the state administration have been increased in the past few years. In the 1990s, each ministry had, take a banal example -- the number of vehicles, the number of drivers, not to mention these "macans", the great officials, counselors, etc., possibly, one, maybe two drivers, or cars, not to talk. Col. Petronijevic explained very detailedly, very precisely, very logically why officials should not be the subject of the government's declaration of office. That makes perfect sense to us. If anyone else has a different opinion, he'll expose it, but we haven't heard any rational reason to take care of some of his party buddies when he gets 12 and five, someone else gets caught in a state job and finds him peace for a few more months.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8647	The amendment has been reported by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8648	So, I heard and understood the explanation given by this amendment to Mr Petronievich, but what we heard as an explanation, practically, does not stand by this amendment. The matter would be perfectly logical, I would agree with the previous speaker, when it comes to the accumulation of officials in the state administration, in the administration, that the state budget of officials should be disbursed. Unfortunately, it wasn't the subject of this member of the law. This member of the law speaks of what all the government to which he has suspended his mandate cannot do. Among other things, it is said, and has been said in the earlier text of the law, that it cannot appoint officials in the authorities of the state administration. It is now proposed to amend, simply because the terms "functioner" and "state official" are completely separated in this new legal termology. It is not a question of what we have heard as an explanation, but of a practical question is raised, which we have not heard with this explanation, or an answer to that question, which was asked by the minister when he came out for the pay phone. Since, without any doubt, an official, not a civil servant, let's say, the Secretary General of the Government, let's take one drastic case, far away, to pass away, and at the very beginning of that 30-day deadline, a question arises -- how, then, the Government to perform that series of functions, the government to which it has suspended its mandate, which is obliged to carry out until the election of a new government? Simply, without certain positions in the state administration, certain positions in certain functions, when it comes to officials who are related to state authorities and government, it is simply impossible to do so. I agree that the government can function without the Secretary of State, only with ministers and assistants, and that is not disputed. Can the government, for example, work without the secretary general? He can't. So it is possible that under certain circumstances the Government cannot function without the Secretary of State, depending on what size of business the ministry is concerned about, i.e. which the size of the work is necessarily covered in this inter-periode. So it's very hard to list it now, because it can't be set exactly. Take the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija as an example. Whether or not the government would stop the mandate, because it can not be voted out of confidence, it can be voted out by mistrust, and may also resign the prime minister, whatever it is, in this inter-periode, some ministries have to do a job at full capacity. This was about civil servants, because when civil servants were appointed, where the assistant posts were lower, they would really be brought about by an extraordinary abuse. But when this basis is already criticised, there is something else to think about, which is in the very content of the text of the law, where it is said that it cannot be set, it has written - officials, and now it is proposed - state officials, and it says further - and in the exercise of the founding rights of the Republic of Serbia can only appoint or give consent to the appointment of acting directors or members of the board of directors and supervisors. If this is not attacked by an amendment, if this text of the law is considered normal, this part of the text, about the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board, of the Management Board, of the acting director of a public system, then how can it not be appointed, if, by force of opportunity, his office, say, Secretary-General of the Government or State Secretary? It's just impossible. What's the problem? So, we can appoint a director of a public enterprise, and we couldn't set up an employee of our duties. But we also don't have any other norm that would be the opposite of the norm that was given here. So if an amendment is proposed that needs to improve the text of the law, then it was worth proposing an amendment that would in general solve the problem that you have set. I don't want to argue about the arguments you've made, but they're not related to this member of the law and its intensity. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8649	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. You have another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8650	I think the fundamental difference in the interpretation of this member is, in general, the amendment in that we think that the government could not function alone without the Prime Minister, and everyone else, my God, only without the Prime Minister. Don't explain the inexplicable things to us. This government is meeting, that is, not meeting, but making decisions on the phone, so it says, if you're for that decision and on the other hand you're hearing - we are, so it's said next, the session has points and so on. The media wrote, read their colleagues, and now you're telling us about it. Let the man go, keep him alive and well, and don't deal with these extreme cases. The intensity of our amendment is that a government that's left behind wouldn't have to appoint officials, and there's a point, let go of the rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8651	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Government, the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8652	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, I have moved the beginning of this session, which has been scheduled several times in 14 hours. However, I must say immediately that there are major problems in the appointment of committee sessions. The obligations of the ruling coalition MPs, MPs who hold meetings of Parliament, who have official travels, the ministry's obligations and the security services to participate in the Committee's work should be harmonised, so I do not think it is realistic to expect that the session will be completed within the hour. On the other hand, we cannot know in advance when meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held. As far as I am concerned, as president of the Committee, I am a representative of the opposition party, and most of the Committee have representatives of the ruling coalition and therefore this session has been postponed several times. So I respected what was heard here. The beginning of the session has been moved in 14 hours. I'd just like to remind you that during the previous session the same time was scheduled, and now we're looking for the possibility that this session will be held in a larger room. So, in the Small Hall of the National Assembly, as many MPs as possible could be present. So, Mr. President, as chairman of the Committee, I have respected what you just said and what was the request, not only yours, but, above all, MPs, members of this Committee of Defense and Security and the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8653	Mr. Dacic, it wasn't his intention to replace your appointment. It is that some Committee meetings are scheduled for the meeting of the Assembly, such as the Administrative, Legislative Committee, where there is a need to discuss some amendments. A report is being discussed here, it is a report on a year of work by the MUP and there is a great interest in MPs. For that reason, it was my suggestion to move that session. It's clear to me that it's not easy for you to bring together all the actors of that session. Of course it can be held in the Small Hall at 14 o'clock, but I have to inform you that we will start working at 15 o'clock, because the Assembly session has to go on its own course. It is impossible for MPs who are not interested in attending that session to be expected not to continue working. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic? (Yes) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8654	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an amendment submitted by Nemanja Sarovic, is almost the same as the amendment submitted by Milisav Petronijevic, the only difference in the government's explanation is why the amendment was not accepted. Mr. Sarovic's amendment requires that after saying 'to position', they add the words 'not to hire new civil servants and tenants'. There is nothing clearer and more precise than an attempt by the SRS to prevent the government from spending its budget, to employ its party personnel, its relatives, and everything you showed right after October 5th, when you came to power. There's a question here, gentlemen. You deceive someone into being Euro-Atlantic integration. I would remind you of the fact that when the President of the United States changes, by some estimate, that moment 10. Thousands of civil servants pack suitcases, if they're from the Republican Party, and they're going somewhere else, it doesn't matter where they're going; they're doing their job right now, the Democrats are coming, they're taking up those seats, and there's no problem in the state. You showed immediately after October 5th what this country expects, or what Serbian citizens will experience. I remind you that immediately after the arrival of DOS and the formation of the government, Zoran Zivkovic's wife, the DS Vice-President, was the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you of the brothers Bajec, the brothers Vesic, and now to remind you of the family of Djilas, the family of Milosavljevic, the family of Jeremic. You've kind of connected this whole family thing, and now you're trying to convince us that the government can't function and that it's a serious threat to the state. When the minister explained earlier, I almost cried out of concern for the government and because of a situation in which our state and government can be found, as you professionally give us an explanation. On this occasion, I immediately ask Mr. Minister and this "yellow" part of the coalition in the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- how did you forget all the objections you made to the "frozen" government of Vojislav Kostunica, I don't know what adjectives you used, and how did you immediately, as soon as you formed a coalition, agree on some things? Do you think this people are crazy, that those who will come after you, which is the SRS, will accept it? The constitution is changing by a two-thirds majority, not these laws that you have received, or you are so fascinated by this award received by this minister of yours - Dinkic. He got it because Mr. Schlaff paid him back to buy these shares, or part of "Mobtel." I am sure that all DOS governments, Djindjic, Zivkovic and Kostunica will receive the reward of a decade and I seriously expect this proposal to come from Kumet, Hamovic, Lazarevic, Miskovic, Peconia, because, my people, there is no greater contribution to their wealth and all that they have gained from these three governments. Gentlemen, you've done everything you can to allow them to become successful businessmen, to spread a little money. Okay, so that's where you're putting in a little bit, with some percentages. To sort of ensure that, you put in these grandmothers, aunts, aunts, and all possible relatives, to preserve, possibly, what you did, those dirty laundry, and not to answer for it. The only way to prevent this is for all those who came with one government, with one ministry, the moment the government resigns, or the other is elected -- to leave with the government. There's no dilemma. To some, it is possible to explain it, and to some, absolutely, it is impossible. Those who don't understand it usually come out loud. They're the best specimens and there's no discussion, absolutely, there's no dilemma about it. This is about simple stuff. How long are you going to abuse the position you have, not only while you're in power, but you mean to extend it and when you get out of power? It's just impossible. It's immoral. Where do you get the right to try to destroy this country in such a way when you lose power? Here someone mentioned the case - don't let God happen, that someone died, like, the Prime Minister. I don't want to, but what if it does? You've already worked out the methodology in that case, there's no problem. You politically agree between one, two, three parties, exchange little boards, public enterprises, create a new redistribution, go out for a pay phone and say - we have agreed, and done business. For those of you who are not part of the contract team, there is nothing, a job done - you will solve it without any problems. But, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, we urge you to respect the law, to respect the Constitution and not abuse the law in this way, to tell all those you hired in the meantime that it is only temporary, while you are in power, and that they will have to leave afterwards. At the same time, I'm asking the next parliamentary question and I'm asking you to give me an answer. How many civil servants were there until the establishment of Zoran Djindjic in January 2001, so how many employees did you find and how many today? Here we will very precisely and simply determine what democracy you are and how much this country and this people cost. I would especially ask you, Mr. Minister, to give me an answer - how much you found the driver in the government, because there was a service there. I don't want you to give me individual data, because I'm afraid of the kind of answer the finance ministry gave us -- when we asked them to provide us with information on the salaries of all employees in public enterprises, boards and so on. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you a parliamentary question, you may answer me from my post. It's your right. (Milan Markovic from the scene: Just to consult with Verica. That's the only good thing for you, Minister. I'm interested in how many new drivers did you hire? According to some information, I'm not going to say, Mr. Minister, that's true, because you know how many are employed by your ministry, over 200 new drivers have been employed since this country has clapped its blessings since you came to power. There's only one problem -- who's paying for it, is that you paying for it, or is that the citizens of this country? How is that possible? These are the problems you face all the time, which cost this country enormously expensive. Normally, they've led to these results that they've led to - that you're not allowed to go to elections today. You can't, because you know what your results are, and that's why you're stuck in a mouse hole, so you're trying to get past the Constitution, past the law, keep power. But one day you have to pay the price. The problem is, the longer you delay, the bigger the interest, the more it's called, progressive interest. I'm afraid, when the election is over, it'll be on that people's feet, running away, that no one will catch up with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8655	Here you are. There's a word from the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Radeth. The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I have just learned that, at the same time as you asked me to postpone the session of the Committee on Defence and Security, there is a session of the Committee on Culture and Information, chaired by Slobodan Gavrilovic, a National MP, who also discusses the Strategy for Cultural Development, etc. I'd ask you to have the same arches as all the boards. Otherwise, I do not want to be a mediator of relations within the ruling coalition or relations with other opposition parties. That principle must apply to all committees. Otherwise, you have a very impeccable and unprincipled relationship with the Committee on Defence and Security, which is also scheduled on time, at 11 o'clock. Okay, we've moved the session up to 14 hours, but it's impossible that at the same time that you have a second session of the board you're not postponing that session of the board, and you're asking to move this session. Please treat each other the same way. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a representative of the opposition on that committee, but the opposition doesn't have a majority in it. If it suits anyone or doesn't answer, change the president, otherwise I don't want any part of this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8657	Tell me, is there anything we can do in this congregation that we can all agree that this is a good thing? Let's be honest. Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8658	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, amendment of counterpart Nemanje Sarovic to Article 5. The bill, of course, needs to be accepted. I expect that Mr Milan Markovic will today be the minister of all national MPs, or the minister of all citizens of Serbia, and will listen to the MPs and explain the amendments. I suppose he will take us seriously, that we intend to help pass a law that will be applicable, that will not create any doubt and after whose application we will not be able to make the arguments that we make today. Of course, if Milan Markovic accepts this amendment and the government is serious in this regard, then we could expect it. But the government, obviously, is not serious, but is trying in a very inappropriate way to insult the intelligence of the MPs. Well, then, the government says that the amendment to Nemanje Sarovic cannot be accepted – employment on state officials' vacancy and employment is not in the government's jurisdiction. What now, we're fools, we don't understand that it's not in the government's jurisdiction, but it is in the jurisdiction of the ministries, agencies, commissions, directors, and who does it belong to? It belongs, of course, to the Government, or the Ministry, to explain to the Government, since it obviously doesn't know that, if I ignore that it was malicious, then I would teach the government that the ministries are government, that the ministries are hiring, the government is setting up. Our amendment was submitted by counterpart Nemanja Sarovic, in that sense. This is where Mr. Todorovic reminded you of several examples. I'll remind you of one, in my opinion, very drastic. In the last term, we showed you, when Minister Velja Ilic appointed his secretary as president or member of the Management Board, a memo that speaks of what kind of staff it is. She sent a letter on behalf of the ministry, which reads - the administrative secretary; instead of signing it, in letters, below, she wrote a -administrative secretary. These are the personnel you're setting up, but what kind of personnel, such as the government, of course. Someone here said that even in a transitional period, technically, the government can't do it without the secretary general. I don't know if it's someone, and I'm sure it is, I was thinking of Dean Michael. Was that the one, Mr. Democrats, Dejan Mihajlov who said - if the court doesn't determine who killed Djindjic, he will show who among you is responsible for the murder of Zoran Djindjic. What's the problem now? Did Dejan Mihajlov whisper to you who killed Zoran Djindjic, so it's someone who's not currently in your environment, so you reunited with the party that belongs to Dejan Mihajlov? Gentlemen, don't mind if we remember perfectly and always remind you of that, as we're going to remind you of the fact, someone here also said - what if, if, God forbid, the Prime Minister dies. We've had that example. You remember the time you killed Zoran Djindjic. Three days after his death, a new prime minister was elected here, Zoran Zivkovic, we watched him cry at the funeral. Here he was elected prime minister, the Democrats began to hug, kiss, congratulate, laugh, soon to sing. Believe me, it was so hard for me as a man back then, I couldn't believe that there were such immoral people, such inhumans, who were able to one day cry after a man, and tomorrow to laugh at having inherited him in his office. That's what he says, ladies and gentlemen, about you. Mr. Todorovic, Biserka Zivkovic, the wife of Zoran Zivkovic, you did not say well, was the secretary of the Legislator's Secretariat, so when Zoran Zivkovic came, when he looked forward and rejoiced to inheriting from Djindjic the Prime Minister's chair, then his wife, believed or not, as chairman of the Management Board of the "Official Messenger", employed as chairman of the Management Board in a permanent working relationship. Do you know who she is today? Special adviser to the Special Prosecutor for War Crimes, said Bruno Vekaric - they begged her, persuaded her to come, because she was an expert, she gained special knowledge at a company in Nis, and she was a market manager in Nis. It's an honor to market managers, but to be special advisors to a special prosecutor, it's simply not possible in any normal state. Also, let me remind you how you functioned during the time of the technical government. Remember when Vojislav Kostunica tried to wash his hands of Ahtisaari and Ahtisaari's plan, he was then the president of the technical government, and at the same time tried, with his ministers, to complete the criminal privatisation of RTB Bor. Fortunately, the citizens of Bora have been selected in good time as president of the Serb Radical municipality, Branislav Rankic, and thanks to him and the support he has given to RTB Bor employees, the criminal privatisation has been prevented. At the time, you didn't mind doing it within the technical government, as you didn't mind the following. We have one letter from the Society for the Protection of Wildbirds of Yugoslavia informing all MP groups, of course, you hide these letters, that this society has submitted to the Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime a criminal complaint against Nikcevic Miroslav, a multi-year-old director of the Environmental Protection Agency at the Ministry of the Environment of the Republic of Serbia. It lists some other names, but the characteristic name is Krnjajic Dejan, director of the Veterinary Administration at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Remember, this is the one that sat here next to Ivana Dulic, as the right hand of Mrs Dulic-Markovic, without reminding you of the crime still at the Ministry of Veselinov, who, among other things, resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8659	The word is by MP Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8660	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we heard in the last 15 minutes, perhaps a little more than a few minutes, the reasons why the amendment of MP Nemanje Sarovic, who, after Article 5, was "on the post", suggested adding the words "not to employ new civil servants and deputies". In the next few minutes, I would like to try to show you why I think this amendment, proposed by my colleague Sarovic, is not good, i.e. that it is not consistent with the other provisions of the Government Act and the proposed amendments and additions to the Government Act. First of all, it should be said that the proposed amendments to the Government Act were found on the agenda of today's session for the reason that the basic text of the 1990 Law on Government was adopted on the basis of the 1990 Constitution. Simply, he must endure certain changes, for the sake of the adoption of a new constitution and the alignment of certain provisions of the Law with him. So this is the process of changing all laws, the process established by the Constitutional Law, and we have this obligation to the National Assembly and to the citizens who chose us. I would just like to say that, too, in July 2006, a law was passed, the Law on Civil Servants, which in a special way handled this structure of civil servants and which has brought a lot of newspapers about these persons, especially with regard to defining - who are civil servants and who are officials. For this reason, I think that the provisions of this law on civil servants and the Government Act, which are treated as officials only by the State Secretary, as well as by the Secretary-General of Government, are good, precisely because state officials should be all other persons in positions, at the head of certain authorities of the administration, of certain organisations, etc. One thing about this amendment and why this amendment should not be accepted. The amendment has a good aim, and this is to prevent the accumulation of employees in certain state bodies during some transitional periods, organisation. And in the very changes and additions of the Government Act, it says that in this transitional period, the Government cannot place government officials in the position. As far as employment is concerned, I think this is a matter to be arranged by the Civil Service Act. This amendment will make sense when the Civil Service Act comes, possibly, of his changes, on the agenda. I think that at this moment, when amendments and additions to the Government Act are on the agenda, we cannot accept this amendment, and when amendments and additions to the Civil Service Act are eventually made, they can be considered. I think that's the basic reason why the amendment of counterpart Nemanje Sarovic should not be accepted. So I would ask that, as my fellow DSS MPs vote against this amendment, you do not accept this amendment, because this matter should be regulated elsewhere, and then we can talk about this whole thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8661	Thank you. On the occasion of this amendment, MP Milos Aligrudic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8662	I agree with the applicant's motive, basically it's perfectly acceptable. What's the problem here, as my predecessor said, is that I will end up commenting on the amendment, is next. So, if the Government Act had been entrusted to the Government to employ persons, then it would be logical to put a certain suspension of that right at a certain point in time with the same government law. However, the government does not hire anyone, the government exclusively either chooses, or sets up, it does not hire anyone. So, as far as setting things up and stuff, it's regulated here, as far as employment is concerned, it's not the government's business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8663	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophet Verica Radet, then the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8664	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, if the Members of Parliament, in their presentation at the National Assembly session, make an offensive statement about the MP from another Parliament group, stating his name and last name or function, or misreading his presentation, shall have the right to replication by the MP to whom the presentation relates. I understood that my colleague Nedimovic spoke, commented on what I was saying, that he misread what I was saying about my colleague's amendment, Nemanje Sarovic, and that is why I would like to point out once again that the amendment is absolutely in line with the law, that the amendment is right where we proposed it. A colleague says this government law is changing today to comply with the Constitution. I'm, to say the least, shocked by the fact that my colleague just noticed today that something needs to be brought into line with the Constitution. Since you don't think about it, my colleague, we have been talking here for months about what it is necessary to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which all the laws as the National Assembly had to bring in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, and you of the DSS, when we talk about it, have no intention of supporting it. On the contrary, according to reliable information, the Prime Minister and the president of the DSS makes a bear service to Mr Oliver Dulic by not allowing the draft laws, which we are bound by the Constitution, to bring, to this House, and then, Mr Dulic, you come... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: he is gone. )......................................................................................................... Gone? Then Mr. Dulic comes into a situation which, as he said in his index finger this morning, he can't understand, because in his profession he knows exactly what is what, but, he says, there's a problem in legal science. He says, no matter how many lawyers he's talking about, everyone has an opinion. Indeed, it would never occur to me to interfere with Mr Dulic's profession in medicine, and it is unacceptable for him to refer in this way to the profession and science, to a large number of not only us, the MPs, who are lawyers, but, in general, the citizens of Serbia. Because he doesn't understand Mr. Dulic, and those who understand won't tell him, that's his problem, like his problem and the problem with you from DOS why the Assembly didn't function for eight months, and he said this morning that we were all responsible for this dysfunction. No, we Serbian radicals do not bear responsibility, for that, gentlemen, you are responsible and will be told to you soon by the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8665	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, then a replica, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8666	I'm referring to Article 136. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I don't think it's explained enough what the government wanted. When the DSS start defending the government's proposal, all I have to say is what makes Branko Ćopić recognizable - I know you. I know you well. What's this about? You see how uninformed those of the DSS are, they, disputed the amendment to Nemanje Sarovic, directly attacked the government. Look at what the government wrote in response why the amendment to Nemanje Sarovic, the last sentence - therefore there is no reason for the government to be denied the right to appoint officials who, by the law's hand, cease their duty when the government has appointed them. Somebody tell me what they wrote. (Milan Markovic, from the scene: You were wrong. Let it go. What's this about? They would also like, when the government is in a state of technical readiness, when it has to act as if it's still a government receiving money, spending its budget, it continues to function. What do they do? To hire their own staff and leave them there to be. You remember when the Civil Service Act was passed, so it's said -- two categories are -- civil servants and politicians, they leave with the government, they leave with the minister, and those who are left with us, they remain by law. The first law that Serbian radicals will change when they come to power is exactly the law. It'll be very soon, don't worry. You'll come out, Mr. Markovic, and you'll explain what I missed, so I'll explain what I missed and what I guessed. Take more care of what I guessed, not what I missed. I hit the core. Why? Because they invented agencies, because they invented new positions, because they invented some new jobs. They've been hiring everything and everything, they've hired these coaches who've become experts, for God's sakes, they know nothing. They've all hired to leave it as a fifth column in all future governments. Is the government wondering about employment? Since you called to come out, I'd just like to draw your attention to Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you feel that these amendments have no contact points with the Government Act, please read Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8667	I thank Mr. Krasic. Replica, first, Dragan Todorovic, then Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8668	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the explanations that have tried to give us DSS representatives are all about explaining and justifying the motive for making such proposals, but they are not telling us honestly and honestly what the motive is. Motive is an attempt at fraud. You want to deceive both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. It's as clear as day. You're saying he doesn't hire the government. First, it's totally logical, and neither are we asking whether the government is hiring or not. They're hiring ministries. Even if you hired the government, you wouldn't allow it, you wouldn't let anyone interfere in your front, your ministry. You fenced it with the Berlin Wall. You don't just allow someone in the Ministry to interfere with you, you don't even allow the Assembly committees, where, in practice so far, the chairman of the board has always been from another party, not the party of the minister who heads the ministry, to be different. You expect us to believe in your motives. Your only motive is fraud. That scam of yours you're trying to turn into a variety of shores and explain to us how you're going to do everything and how it's going to get better. I'm asking you a question, why haven't you done it by now? How much is this government in continuity in power? The government of Vojislav Kostunica? Since 2004. Now it's going to be four full years, and it's going to be five years in power. You're warning us here that this will be settled by the Law on civil servants and tenants. Why didn't you suggest it? Why don't you propose the laws you're bound to, and you're just saying that something will be arranged by some law, sometimes, if that happens. You just don't say when it's going to be, what year, and what do you think you're doing until then? Then how do you work? With all these laws, you have allowed your party members, members of the family, to hold good seats in Serbia today, and very well paid. Just some information about some public enterprises. Directors and board presidents have over 200,000 dinars of salary. It's your motive, to keep your personnel in places that have been paid this much and you figure you'll do anything to cover up all the robbery and everything you've done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8669	The word has a minister, please, and then Mr. Aligrudic, a triple replica, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8670	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. I think this amendment has not earned this much time. This is about something that shouldn't be a subject, nor should it be contained in this law, all of it, and if we wanted to state it in this law. It's about executive jobs and it's about tenants. According to the Civil Service Act, the recruitment procedure is prescribed - internal competition, public competition. First, it's a degutant mention of someone's family. I don't understand what you're saying. You don't distinguish officers in position from the perpetrators. You, obviously, but absolutely, have no idea what this is about. This is about executive jobs and tenants. Imagine what would happen if this could, for example, stand in some law. So this law can't stand, but, let's say, it's in some law. There'd be a situation if there was a competition and some kids came forward, they should be drivers or I don't know what, a public competition. Meanwhile, it comes to the end of the government's mandate and everything is going down, and these proceedings take six months. Unfortunately, after six months, this is the procedure, just to ensure impartiality in employment. This is neither the government nor the ministers or the ministries. The minister, when he comes, brings his team, when he leaves, and his team leaves, his team goes with him, and the same goes for the government. These are the people who worked for 20,000 dinars and were striked the other day. This is about them. Who's even thinking about who hired his wife now as a driver in the ministry, what does that have to do with each other? This amendment, and I understand what you're saying, is one political issue. This amendment, Nemanje Sarovic, is definitely not a place here, nor has it any logic from the point of view of real life. With this amendment, Nemanja Sarovic is probably not here right now to point out what you're saying, and it's a political topic. You claim one thing, and I say it's not. I came to the Ministry, I found a secretary, a woman works for 30 years, I have no idea who she was a secretary to in those 30 years, I really don't know whose wife she was. I have a driver, he's busy when you had 15 ministers in the government, he's a boy from Zemun field, and I don't even know who he was driving before me, he was driving all kinds of ministers. I don't know, I don't care who he was driving. Well, since you're accusing me like that, I invite you, here, come to my office and be my guest, it'll be a pleasure to have a cup of coffee, so you can see who I brought it to. Why are you so casually accusing? I don't understand this way of dialogue. I hope that's where we're headed to see what the problem is and then it turns on some other track and now we need to mention someone's family and who hired who. If you want, you can, but this amendment doesn't apply at all. I repeat, the amendment refers to enforcement posts. These are people who work for 20,000 dinars, these are competitions - internal, public, for this high-ranking council makes a proposal and is called by the staff service, the procedure is specified by the Law on civil servants. Indeed, a colleague of the DSS who spoke is absolutely right, in this law is not the place for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8671	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8672	I answered the phone about three previous speakers, and I asked for a replica, but I'll sum it up in one minute. So we have the right, I guess, to answer the word and comment on the law, the proposed amendments and to participate in the debate. If someone contests the right to do so and puts it into the story, into some other kind of policy, when it's worth it to whom any law comes in line, really, it doesn't make sense. That's what I wanted to react to. When it comes to calling on certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure, what does it matter? We are referring to the provisions of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure and we say to ourselves that we have the right to replication. Let's ask for a replica, and then we'll get a replica. I've been looking for a second replica and, here, a replica. Therefore, there is no need to refer to a member of the Rules of Procedure in order to obtain the right to replication. Only if the chairman disobeys the right to reply, so he won't give me or any other right to reply, then call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and say, "I'm sorry, I have a 101st member who provides me with the right to a three-minute replica. So I don't see any reason to do it that way. The second thing, I repeat once again, is that there are no misunderstandings, about everything that has been made here as an argument, about employment, employment policy in state authorities, the accumulation of some officials who come into the amannet, allegedly, to some new government by the previous one, etc., so there are relatives, aunts, friends and other accommodations, I am very open to talking and we can open this topic, there is no problem, so before I agree with you. I really think it is irresponsible and ugly for the government and the administration to stop the mandate to leave behind a series of officials who, faster or better, have been hired in a time period between the two governments. I completely agree, but the point is that he can't amend this article and this law to solve this issue. It's not working out here. This is the Government Act. I agree that the provisions of the Constitution set one relation to employment-related jobs are not controversial, but this law does not deal with employment. He speaks exclusively of the government's jurisdiction, when it comes to setting up or even choosing a person. There's nothing to do with hiring. So we can intervene in some other law, we can propose some law on this, we can sit down in different ways and figure out how to solve a social problem, which is identified here. I don't mind. It would be crazy if I had something against the argument we heard here. Anyone in their right mind would think that. It's nothing controversial. It's just that this amendment to this article of the law is not to be accepted, for extremely simple reasons. So, if the government were to hire directly, then we could draw attention to this same law, which provides jobs in its jurisdiction, to the government, to any, any, any, and to certain restrictions in this regard, in certain cases. That's where I'd agree. Since that's not the case here, there's no formal legal possibility of this amendment being accepted here. As for the argument we've heard, you can certainly replicate to me now because I agreed with you, it's not a problem, so we can do it by noon, but I agree. I don't have any problem with that, it's all in place. I have no objection about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8673	The word has Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so the MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8674	Mr. Carrot, I answered the line because they scared me while I was talking. While I was talking earlier, they threatened, "You missed a member, you missed the law," Srdjan said, "You hit a rabbit." They said they'd come out and tell me everything, to answer me. The minister comes out, you fuck-fuck-fuck, don't touch your aunts. Out comes Aligrudic, he forgets why he came out. Do you see what kind of problems we're facing? Do you see how true what I said - 'I know you'? Do you see that I know you? I expected both the minister and Mr Aligrudic to explain and say - this member of the Constitution, that member of the law, this member, that member. They say, "The drivers have a salary of 20,000, don't touch them, don't touch your aunts, aunts, women and the rest that isn't covered by this article." Mr. Aligrudić comes out and says, "I totally agree with you." Mr. Aligrudic was wrong about one thing. This member of the Government Act, which is Article 17, doesn't regulate what you said, Mr. Aligrudic. Read Paragraph 1. It is said: "The authority of the government and the members of the government after the term of office of the Government has ceased" and regulates this technical aspect when we have and do not have a government. We have it on paper to spend money, and we don't have it to run a normal policy, because the government in resignation, the government of which is voted mistrust, until a new government is elected, is a mummified government, a zombie government, a government that exists just to play the continuity of some executive government. In a situation where the government plays the continuity of the executive government, and we've been stronger for experience since democracy came to us and these turkeys, they've usually ended up in that interregnum in the dirtiest jobs, and then a civil official, or a civil servant, in a position now used by Balinovac in 1925, became a civil servant, during the night. We want to forbid it, that you can't do it, because, basically, you're the government today, but you're the government today. You don't function like a normal government. You're right in this interregnum. You have not yet been informed by Solana of the future composition of your government. You're doing the dirtiest jobs. Now, may I remind you, since I am known as a villain, do you remember what we first changed at the beginning of the term of office of this congregation? We've changed the Civil Service Act. Do you know why? Because you couldn't get those who applied for the assistant minister's post to change the membership card and become members of G17 plus. I know of one example, and the competition was conducted, it was necessary to make a decision, so Kostunica said, "This government will have a new composition. Why would the ministerial assistants be those from the SPO or from some other parties that will not be in the future government? '". Mr. Markovic, this pathetic thing that you're going out with here and you're saying that this amendment to Nemanje Sarovic refers to drivers and coffee cooks, tie the cat to the tail. It also refers to your close family members, not yours, specifically, but individual people from the government, individual MPs, individual party officials. Just to remind you, when you first came to power in 2001, it happened that your Radukka's sister was born, otherwise, the DS cafe cook, whether that was the case, Mr. Markovic, became director of the Administration of Revenue, so everyone was baptized with both left and right hands. We want to prevent the infiltration of those people who were blowing fire on October 5th, not to shut it down, but to subdue and burn even more. We want to stamp all that. So the first law we change when we come to power is the Civil Service Act. Why? Because you taught us what democracy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8675	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8676	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. I'm looking for an explanation from the government and the Republic Radio-Difusing Agency -- how it's possible that last night, in prime time, on RTS, so-called. Public service, for which citizens pay the subscription, and for those who do not pay the lawsuit, will be broadcast a show whose purpose is to glorify crime and criminals, that media representatives, on the media side, to God, mega-intervention of Milorad Ulemek Legion, a man who has been sentenced to 40 years in prison and who is being prosecuted for even more serious crimes, that media representatives relativate, devalue and obstruct what is subject to the work of the prosecution and the court? Since this was insufficient, he was invited to help, no one but Ivo Pukanic, the owner of the mob reads 'Nacional', Ivo Pukanic, who is a member of the criminal association Hrvoja Petrac, the man who is the biggest criminal in Croatia and is now in prison in Croatia. Ivo Pukanic, along with the FIA criminal organisation, remember that I mentioned it, for the purposes of Mladjan Dinkic, the then governor of the National Bank, was looking for our money in Cyprus. They were in charge of satanicizing Zoran Djindjic and he was in front of RTS viewers last night, subscribers, reiterated that Zoran Djindjic is a mobster, that he is a criminal, because then the goal was to "National" repeatedly repeat that Zoran Djindjic is one of the heads of the "Duvan mafia". Instead of today, when it is discovered where the shorts are and who are members of the tobacco mafia, instead of Ivo Pukanic being in the investigation or on the indictment, the arrest warrants, he is a guest, last night, on the Serbian Public Service programme. Let me tell you something else. Last night Ivo Pukanic said not only this about Djindjic, but if Serbia, according to everything he does and where it is, 4,000 kilometers east, or far from Croatia, that Gotovina was a great hero, if it hadn't been for Gotovina, it would still have been war, if it hadn't been for Gotovina, Milosevic would still rule here. The man lectured Serbs in Serbia last night through the Public Service programme. So, it's immoral, but I guess it's normal in a country where his friend, the one who said the anthological sentence, is at the head of the Public Service -- if Zoran Djindjic survives, Serbia will not. Gentlemen and dear friends, Mr Markovic, members of the DS, I address you, you look at all this, listen, shut up and vote at the end, and Zoran Djindjic turns into a grave. That was on RTS last night. A voice should be raised, because it was not a political debate, where incorrect words, difficult words, humble dead people, etc. were often used, it was on the RTS programme. Speaking of families and families here, there may be mistakes or sins, but now there is a man at the head of the same service who was Minister of Government Mirko Marjanovic and Paž Mira Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8677	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of State Administration and "against" local self-government, according to Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, Milan Markovic, has just injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 113: "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure relating to the session of the National Assembly shall apply to all other participants in the sitting, in addition to the MPs, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly." It means that the rules of the Rules of Procedure also apply to ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I expected, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that you will notice that Mr. Milan Markovic, in his previous presentation, told the MPs - you have no idea what this is all about. It is an insult to the dignity of the People's Messenger, an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. The minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot tell the MPs that they have no idea what this is about. And how we have a clue. That the minister has no idea, ways, opportunities, knowledge to adequately respond in order to defend the indefensible, is the problem of Ministers Markovic and Vojislav Kostunica, not the problem of MPs who advocate that the amendment of Nemanje Sarovic will be adopted. Mr. Milan Markovic, probably can't handle it, can't explain everything we ask him when he says it's not right to mention members of someone's family. It is not correct, ladies and gentlemen, that members of the family are placed on such high-ranking state functions. We have to ask, say, Vuk Jeremic, is it normal to expect his wife, who is editor of the Dnevnik on state television, as they like to say, at the Public Service of European Serbia, to ask him - Mr. Vuke Jeremic, why did you, on whose orders you give consent to the Croatian Ustasha State enter the UN Security Council, when it should, as Minister of the Serbian Government, be aware that the Croatian Ustasha state has usurped part of Serbian territory, occupied the Republic of the Serbian Krajina? Of course, he can't ask his husband that kind of question. That is why we think it is not good and it is inadmissible to this extent and to that degree nepotism is being conducted since the DOS is in power, which is otherwise unremembered in the country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8679	I thank Mrs. Radetti. I agree with her finding that the words spoken were difficult. I accept Mrs. Radet's criticism. The word is made by the MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8680	I must seek protection in Article 104. We are discussing one amendment here, and everyone has the right, within the limits within which it has been given to the Rules of Procedure, each parliamentary group, to use its time and discuss the given amendment. One to support him, one to say if they don't mind. It's not all questionable. I just can't believe it, if someone's scared, and I'm just thinking of Mr. Krasic, well, all at the cost of getting a replica for this, and so scared of coming out, he has to, however, refrain, regardless of his fear, I don't know what it comes from, from being insecure about defending the text of the amendment, when it comes to who knows what reasons, not to insult other MPs. To say a lot of words about what I didn't say, to put it in my mouth from this pay phone and thus discuss, as an amendment, and by reporting to the Rules of Procedure, it is, indeed, amazing. The breach of the Rules of Procedure serves to protect one of your rights from the process that is taking place here, from the session of the Serbian Parliament, when, above all, by the chairman, the injured or when there is a need to react, as in this case, when I have reacted, when you feel threatened by the way the other MP discusses or if he insults you. To report to the Rules of Procedure because you think that you will better explain your position on the amendments, it is completely pointless, unless you wanted to say something else, to say that only you have the right to discuss the law, how only you have the right to speak about the amendment, how about the amendment, my God, which was submitted by the SRS has no right to speak to anyone else. Are you going to say that? I know what you wanted to say. It will not be possible, because we are interested in the fate of the bill and the text that came here, interested in its final appearance in the voting day, and I don't care whether this law changes with this oron amendment, and we will see which of these amendments are acceptable to us, so my parliamentary group will vote for those amendments that are acceptable to us to see things. Let us express our vision. If I, Mr. Krasic, may be wrong, if I may not have said something right, I can accept it all as possible, but you can't believe that your argument, which comes down to the story of employment policy in the state authorities, and it has nothing to do with the submitted amendment, will become in itself worth defending that amendment in a legal sense, just because you're going to repeat it forever. People, wrong attitude doesn't get right by repeating it all day. I don't dispute the possibility of him repeating himself all day, that could be the case, could be repeated for five days, but it won't make him right. So, let's cut short, and for this amendment, regardless of the provocations, I will no longer report for the word, no matter how many MPs have come forward, my discussion has been commented. I want to distract you people, let us talk about what's on the agenda and comment on the amendment. Whoever put up with it has the right to talk about him. If someone else accidentally misreads what is said in the defence of the amendment, there is a right to the replica, to clarify and clarify this, but let's not use the right to injure the Rules of Procedure to continue to underline what, Kobajagi, is not clear in the amendment. Everything is said in this amendment, everything is more than clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8681	According to Business, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, then Dragan Todorovic, and then replica - Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8682	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I'd like to ask you to concentrate and follow the course of the debate, when whoever comes to you and who's talking about what topic. If you don't know, I'll remind you to discuss my colleague Nemanje Sarovic's amendment, and this man who came out of here is Milos Aligrudic, the president of the DSS parliamentary group. There you are, buddy, I don't see you, really, my colleague Davidovic has sheltered you. You, colleague Aligrudic, are a graduate lawyer. You were in the last session. Just shut up, calm down, be polite. When you have not already been disciplined by the president of your party who has given you the power to lead a parliamentary group, then listen to the arguments. I have reported to the members of the Rules of Procedure who regulate the procedure for teaching and writing amendments. They're art. 146 and 147, colleague Aligrudić. So, you were president of the Legislative Committee and you are now jumping into your mouth, because in the last term you have defended the position that is correct, or the possibility of proposing amendments under Article 147. You are now the whole story, and colleague Krasic, who is also a graduate lawyer and colleague Radeti, and also the minister has become involved, I have listened carefully to what you have said, based on the fact that this amendment by Col. Sarovic is not the place in this law. When he doesn't belong in this law, why didn't you reject him, because the reports of both the Legislative and the Justice Committee say they're proposing to the National Assembly that the amendment be rejected. So the extra doesn't hurt your head. What is not forbidden is allowed. You can just reject it and say, as the ruling majority, that you will not have it in this law, because you have so imagined the law, and that it applies to another law, which is not the subject of this debate, which we discussed in June, and not to say that the minister comes out and insults the MPs, to say - you have no idea what you're talking about. Yes, we have no idea what we're talking about, and we're using our business rights under Article 147, which is not injured, because if it were, we'd be informed by Article 146 that this amendment has to be rejected, because it's offensive, because it's unadjusted, because it can't be found in this law. We have placed it in this law, although by your concept it is not a place in this law, because of the facts that were presented, by a number of examples, and by counterpart Todorovic, and co-worker Radeta, and co-worker Krasic, that there have been numerous abuses, just by the ruling structures, from 5 October to today. I don't see at all why you're angry that we're using our business rights, because if we were wrong, it would be a rejected amendment, and under Article 146 would not be the subject of debate. If it were, as it were, an offensively, saying that the prime minister, who is coming in right now, had no idea what we're talking about and that the amendment of Col. Sarovic didn't deserve a place in this law, we wouldn't have talked about it at all in the last half hour. There, so much to explain to you how the matter with the Rules of Procedure is, and what you have a different concept, that you're hiding all these facts or trying to cover them up, that aunts, aunts, husbands and wives have been hiring, that they're doing all this, that they're abusing their position, that's another thing. We can present those examples by tomorrow, but the fact is one and the truth is one. This amendment could have been found and we, once we've taken power, are going to put this into the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8683	Milos Aligrudić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8684	I said I wouldn't answer again, but after a brutal attack like this, it's just impossible not to react. First of all, there's no reason for someone to misinformed the public, who can't see the O.R. at all times on direct transmission, whether someone's in the O.R. or not. That's really bad. Of course, Article 104 insults dignity. So it's something that's inadmissible. On the other hand, I'm going back to my previous argument. What difference does it make what the Legislative Committee said? Whatever the Legislative Committee says, this National Assembly has the right to discuss the amendment if the Legislative Committee has made it legally possible. He's not legally impossible, that's not what anyone said. We are talking about the essence of the amendment, we are considering its contents and the Assembly, as a body over its committees, can, regardless of what the committee said, determine whether an amendment should or should not be accepted. If I claim that this amendment should not be accepted, I do not claim it because I do not like the amendment promoter, or that I do not like what the SRS has proposed. We have voted in favour of the amendments of the SRS many times, and in the previous assembly, and in this conference. Therefore, regardless, it does not matter which party submitted the amendment, if it really corrects the legal text, if there is no problem with its application, there will be no problem for that amendment. What is stated again, I repeat, is that we appear on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure in order to underline our position on the amendment once again, thinking that repetition will in itself contribute to the consolidation of the defence of amendments or the position of MPs, simply not true. It cannot be placed in the authority of the Government to directly employ the perpetrators. This amendment does so directly. This cannot stand in the Law on Government, nor in the Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Government, and it is clear to all, but when such an argument is made, then, as a counterargument, there is a story about employment policy. I repeat it again, and it's just amazing that you have to say it a hundred times. I completely agree with you, there is no difference in the attitude between me and those who spoke earlier when it comes to employment policy in state authorities, aunts, aunts, aunts, there is no difference. If you want, we can sit down together and hold a press conference after this and say it's a common policy, we can draw conclusions, we can order the government to take care of these things and then find it applied in some other law that we can easily agree on, even if it was the Law on civil servants, so that we can see what the mechanism is in situations that pose such a challenge, such as the termination of the government's mandate on any basis. Is it possible in that inter-periode, which is created, to hire people, how do we come to think of it, or is it impossible? That's a good question, but, people, by constantly repeating that argument, it's impossible to create the impression that the amendment we're discussing is a good amendment. It's just not a good amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8685	Replica, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, well, also a replica, Mr. Zoran Krasic, i.e., according to Business, Mrs. Vjerica Radeta, then has a replica of Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I said in my previous presentation what the goal was, that is, what is the incentive of the motion to reject the amendment proposed by the SRS and Nemanja Sarovic, it was, I hope, all clear. It's a fraud. I'll read it to you now, don't take this away from me for a while, I'll read you what it says in article 17. The government law. ''The government to which the term of office has ceased may only carry out ongoing tasks and may not propose laws and other general acts to the National Assembly, nor lay down regulations, unless their adoption is related to the legal period or the needs of the State, defence interests or natural, economic or technical disasters. "The second point: 'She can't put civil servants in a position,' we put'stuck' there and added 'not hire new civil servants and tenants'. That refers to the time when the government suspended its mandate. Until then, all you could do was hire, hire, and we're preventing you from hiring new people in the meantime, when your mandate stopped, your new relatives from your parties, to take advantage of that time, because by the time the new government comes, by the time the law is passed, you're counting, every paycheck, every month, and you think that's how you're gonna finish the job. We want this to prevent our amendment, that in the meantime, you simply do not have that right, not even in this Article 17, which you are proposing, because it is said - a member of the government to whom the term of office has ceased following the end of the government's term of office has the same authority as a member of the government who resigned. So if there's no government, there's no minister, because he's in resignation, and he's gonna hire. You assure us that we do not present here the names of people whose family members, since 2000 and 2001, have been employed by various state institutions. We're saying it because the nepotism that has applied DS is terrifying, it's just amazing how you're destroying the state. You're destroying, among other things, your own party. The fact that you can't deal with it can be your party problem, but you're also transferring it to the state. I can't understand that the children of your officials are sitting here, married couples, the fruit of your concept of democracy. For you, nepotism seems to be a natural way to function, but it's devastating for the country. We're trying to draw attention that this is the hardest thing in the country. You didn't take away the time I quoted. Just one more thing to say to Mr. Aligrudic. Mr. Aligrudic, you're saying that we're trying to stop you from speaking and making your views known. First of all, Mr. Aligrudic, we've never done that, and at least we can do it as an opposition. You're doing it. You have prevented us from making a proposal on the basis of the Rules of Procedure for the President of the Assembly. Who are you going to convince about what you're saying? You try this in every way possible, you abuse the Constitution, you abuse the laws, you abuse this republican congregation, you abuse the City Hall. How many municipalities there are today where temporary administrations have been introduced, for more than a year. You want to convince the citizens of Serbia and the MPs to work in the interests of the state, the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people. Serbian citizens must know that these laws will be harmful to them, not because we are party differences, but because they are harmful to the state and as soon as the SRS comes to power, which is after the next elections, all these laws will be amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8687	I thank Mr. Todorovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8688	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: 'This Rules of Procedure shall regulate the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament are exercised'. Every day in our debate, we reminded all the MPs of this article 1 or the obligation of the Members of Parliament to participate in the work of this Parliament. Two days ago, I said it was obvious that DSS MPs were tasked with having to come out for each amendment and comment, which is absolutely their right, as I read earlier, and obligation, but the problem is that they became very quickly nervous. Mr. Aligrudić jumps, I look at it earlier, and instead of raising the Rules of Procedure nicely and calmly saying – I report to the Rules of Procedure, he jumps out of the bench and shouts - Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure. I understand, he's not used to sitting in this room, he comes by from time to time, like the other MPs of his MP group, and right now there are six of them in this room, and that's their problem. Mr. Aligrudić, we do not, as you say, forbid, disable, allow you to speak, and that is completely pointless, on the contrary, we encourage you to come out and make your arguments. So you just said very clearly that the amendment of colleagues is Nemanje Sarovic, and, behold, there are two more from the DSS, they heard that I called the number, so eight of them are total, they're good, but they don't belong in this law. I remind you, by your profession, counselor, how many times have we from the SRS reminded you from this place to codify criminal law - don't put a crime in the Law on Sports, in the Law on Hunting and Fishing, put this and that, all crimes in one place, bring one codified criminal code, but you don't understand it then. You don't care about that at the time, but every law has a new crime. Where's your principle, sir, colleague Aligruditch? You say you mind why MPs use their rights under Article 101. Rules of Procedure. This is amazing. You say you can answer the line, you don't have to call the Rules of Procedure. The right to replica is governed by Article 101. I can't answer on the basis of the GSP Regulation, but on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic, and a specific member. You're wondering why we're replicating you and why we're trying to convince you of something we can't convince you of. We will use all the time and all of our opportunities from this Rules of Procedure to convince you, if possible, of the correctness of our views, and you, Mr. Milivojevic, are not convinced, because you are a hopeless case, you do not have to answer. We, first of all, want to explain to the citizens of Serbia what the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic is, what a pest government and how Serbian citizens must in the next elections to vote for change, for their freedom, to free those who do not respect neither the Constitution, nor the law, nor the regulations. Perhaps on that occasion, when there are only twenty Democrats here, Srdjan Milivojevic will leave this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8689	The People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, the Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8690	In accordance with Article 104. Then who gave you the order to talk about the amendment? Where did you get the idea that you could insult DSS MPs, using the opportunity to directly transfer this session to the Assembly, explaining to the public that they were given some order to talk about amendments? What's on your mind? The same question can be asked to you, because 20 of you came out here, not so much, or less, but that's why they talked about the same people, the same problem, the same way. So someone gave you a warrant. It's just that we can't talk that way and that's not right. On the other hand, when it comes to the count of DSS MPs present, you should remember something that you must have known anyway, because it was mentioned in this assembly, not during the session, but outside the session. DSS MP Mika Vlaovic passed away and today at 13 o'clock is his funeral in Vilovo. A large number of DSS and New Serbia MPs went to the funeral of MP Miki Vlaovic. I'm asking you to at least say what I'm saying, Mr. Todorovic, don't disturb me, if you have any decency at all. Really, it doesn't make sense. So I think that this argument that you've made so vehemently, commenting that someone is supposed to jump out of the back lines to report to the Rules of Procedure, simply, bounces away from the content of what you've been talking about. How did you just jump, Mrs Radeta, on the Legislative Committee, when you heard legal arguments that didn't suit you, about what you then raised as a question, which is whether the National Assembly president has or has no obligation to call elections for mayor of Belgrade?- I'm sorry. When you heard valid legal arguments, which can completely kill what you sent as a legal structure, I can't believe how you were jumping back then, just so the cameras could see you. Don't do that! If you are not able to refrain from a certain kind of behavior yourself, do not attach and invent someone else to behave properly, when that is not true. That's why I think your exposure isn't principled, it's ugly. I don't think it has anything to do with it. What we're going to do in the future, we're going to talk about amendments, our amendments, amendments to the SRS, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, if they ever have them, because they usually come here to shake out on some other basis. So whenever damage can be done to the state of Serbia and some kind of problem, there are always on call MPs who, by sin or error, who, hopefully, voters will no longer repeat, joined by LDP, who somehow crossed the censorship and found themselves in this parliament. I hope it doesn't happen again in the future, and it's up to us to convince our citizens not to make that mistake again. But, people, we can't even each other. In this sense, I call upon you, indeed, to discuss the agenda, on what is on the agenda, on the amendments proposed, to exchange quality legal arguments to accept or reject this Assembly of certain amendments. I agree that you can run politics, it's not controversial, but if you've been running politics for two days, then this pay phone is exclusively your place for a press conference, not a place to discuss the content of amendments and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8691	I thank the MP Milos Aligrudic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic, then, Verica Radeta, then, for the replica, Mr Krasic, for the time being. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8692	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party attach extraordinary importance to this topic and to this norm that was proposed in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act. Is there anything more serious, anything more important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I advise the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the SRS MPs want to prevent abuse, that inflation and unfounded admission of bureaucrats into the authorities of the administration do not occur. These are not persons employed in production structures, so that citizens can benefit from all this. Serbian citizens have no use for hiring officials in the government of the Republic of Serbia. How can that be prevented? Law and nothing else. I am up to the discussion concerning this amendment submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. What does that mean? Gentlemen of the ruling structure, you want to deceive the public. You want Serbia and taxpayers to misread, that is, in the interest of taxpayers what the SRS and its MPs are fighting the battle with you because we want Serbian citizens and taxpayers to pay less taxes. How is it that the government in the resignation can take the yellow ants as she wants and fill the offices with ten, 15 in the offices? If I am wrong, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia to answer the question - how many deputies, or officials, in the administration in the authorities of the administration, in the cabinets of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, after years, have been admitted from 2000 to today? Then you will see, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, whether Serbian radicals were right. You'll have to admit, ladies and gentlemen, that we're right and that these abuses, any government to come tomorrow, are only being prevented by law. Serbia's citizens should not be allowed to pay large taxes, as these are in the pockets of taxpayers holding hands to their shoulders. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we, the MPs of the SRS, wanted to, and we want to prevent abuses. It is unacceptable, that is, in any other way to prevent the minister of any resort, and there are so many that the citizens of Serbia wonder how many ministers we have, how many cabinets we have and how many in the rat ministries that are employed there. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has established this amendment and therefore the amendment of MP Nemanje Sarovic should be accepted because it is in the interest of taxpayers. This is not in the interest of individuals, it's in the interest of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8693	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Milos Aligrudic, that is, first of all, to say that I speak accordingly to Article 104(1). The Rules of Procedure, the Messengers of the people, are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. We Serbian radicals always behave according to this article. We expect it from other people's messengers. Col. Milos Aligrudic asked who gave us the order to go out and talk from this place. Citizens of Serbia, Mr. Aligrudic, our voters gave us a warrant to speak here on their behalf and to express the views of our voters. You realized that very late, two days ago, and you say, which is a confirmation of what I said that you two had been ordered out two days ago -- we'll be talking about every amendment in the future. That means, that's exactly what you said, a stenogram can be looked at, that you admit that you have not participated in this Parliament's work so far. As for yours, or my count of your MPs, you incorrectly mentioned the late Mike Vlaovic. I count you every day and almost every day from this place I tell the Serbian public how many MPs there are in this place. SRS MPs from the South Baba County also went to the funeral of a late counterpart. It's really not nice to mention his name today, until a man's been buried. As for the Legislative Committee and your comment that I jumped on the Legislative Committee, that's not true. Comrade Aligrudić, you had no legal arguments. You tried to put in the Legislative Committee a motion that could not be put to the vote. When the SRS proposal was at the polls, you had a majority. That was the end of that session of the Legislative Committee. You tried to keep going. We never take part in illegal affairs, we just fine, calmly, stood up, left the session of the Legislative Committee, because you made a decision in which the SRS proposal was not accepted. Most of you, you have the right to continue to violate the Constitution, as you have recently violated both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and the dignity of the citizens of Serbia, when you said, in the ugliest possible way -- that MPs of the League of Social Democrats and LDP should not sit in this parliament. It's just amazing. Only Vuk Draskovic used to say that we're a crazy people, and you're something like that now. The Serbian Radical Party's policy is diametrically contrary to politics and the League of Social Democrats and LDP, but we have no idea that we are underestimating the constructions that have chosen them and that they do not belong in this parliament. Whoever Serbian citizens are elected, Mr. Aligrudic, belongs to him in this House and even to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8695	Thank you. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have really tried to convince you that the amendment submitted by the SRS is trying to prevent abuse at the time when the government is in resignation and that, even though it has managed to employ all the living that it has had at its disposal, additionally employs for a month or eight months, as was the case with the government of Vojislav Kostunica, until the moment it has ceased to function in fact, to a new coalition agreement and a new government. I understand that it cannot be understood immediately by some citizens of Serbia, especially those who are not lawyers, because it is difficult here to manage the arguments, explanations and explanations given by MPs, one attack, another defends, etc., but I am sure that the lawyers, who have not obtained a degree in a way that implies they did not have to show knowledge, but those who have really passed the exam thanks to knowledge, would have to understand the intention of the SRS. So, at the moment the government is left behind, you give the ministers the right to further employ new people in the ministries. Have you, Mr. Aligrudic, been interested in how many people have been employed since 2000, since DOS came to power, how many of them there are, so you can go out here for a pay phone, and say-- what you're saying isn't true, because your motives are irrelevant, there's no reason to be afraid, here, we did that and that. Even if you had come with information for the government since 2004, since Vojislav Kostunica, the Prime Minister, that you went to the MPs and said – gentlemen, when the government of Vojislav Kostunica came there were so many employees, today there are so many of them, rather than, for example, this coalition agreement, because you can't prevent your coalition partners from hiring in their ministries, and we say -- really, these are people who, in some way, take care of the citizens, take care of the state. The very fact that you're trying to convince us that you're doing this for the benefit of the state, apparently, so that it doesn't stop working, that it's not threatened, etc., it's completely pointless. We don't believe you. We believe that your motives for refusing this amendment are the reasons that we here say, new employment, a new imposition on the coat of arms of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8697	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The Republic was asked for an hour ago by Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8698	I listened to Mr Aligrudic and now I want to convince the DSS why it is necessary to vote in favour of Mr Sarovic's amendment. So, no more fears, Mr. Aligrudic, everything is dry and clear. So, article 17. The bill regulates the situation when we have a 'zombiled' government, when the government resigned, and the state cannot be one minute without the government, because the government is enforcing the executive power defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and its very existence means the continuity of some state. Article 17 states, first of all, when the Government comes into this situation, what is prohibited from it in terms of general acts, so it is said that it can only carry out current tasks and cannot propose to the National Assembly laws and other general acts, nor bring regulations, sublaws, meaning regulations, regulations, etc., so as to indicate a special situation when it comes to defence and security, from the point of view of general acts. Article 2 refers to something that can also be interpreted as an individual act. It is said - The government cannot place civil servants in a position in the authorities of the state administration, and in the exercise of founding rights, the Republic of Serbia can only appoint or give consent to the appointment of officials, directors or members of the board of directors or supervisors. This applies to public enterprises. So, there's no director of a public enterprise, and the government is in that interregnum, she can appoint an employee of duty. It's something that refers to individual acts. Furthermore, the next position - the government to which the term of office has ceased cannot propose to the president of the Republic the disbanding of the National Assembly, the constitutional provision, and a member of the government that is under his resignation is equated with the position of the government that is under his resignation. What makes you think this amendment of ours can't get into this article? Because you think employment is just a work relationship. And when it is decided on the admission to the employment relationship of a state official or a deputy in a ministry, the minister decides, and this member prohibits the minister who resigned or the government minister who has been voted out of confidence, and means that the minister cannot hire. We just wanted to warn you, to make that clear, so in the second attitude we wrote what Mr. Sarovic suggested. Please, and when the government sets up a government official, in a broader sense of the word, it's a job, because it can set up someone who's not in a working relationship, who doesn't have the status of a civil servant or an undersigned. He can set it up, like, take this "Milet the Asshole" and set him up as a counselor. So, setting up is hiring. Getting into a working relationship is a job. When the 2nd position states what the Government must not do while it is in this position, no error is made when using the word "not to hire", because the word "employ" contains both the placement, and the appointment, and the reception in the working relationship. There's no reason for you to complain, to jump. I'm glad that in previous statements, you of the DSS have said that there is a wholeness, a justification for submitting such an amendment, that you support this amendment. Here, with a little words, I was able to convince you that his place is in this particular member who defines what the government cannot do. Mr. Aligrudic, let me read Article 17 of your law, the last position: ''A member of the Government to whom the term of office has ceased following the end of the government's term of office has the same authority as a member of the government who resigned. '"That means the minister can't hire anyone. What Nemanja suggested only strengthens what you've already written in a different way. I hope you will be consistent and vote in favour of the amendment, Nemanje Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8699	I thank Mr. Krasic. Here you are, MP Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I received a letter and, in the sense of Art. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question of the Minister of the Interior and ask for an answer - who conducts torture and persecution, harassing and beating Zivkovic's family from Somboro? How is it possible and that allowed 17 and 18 October 2007, in two interventions and on two occasions, to beat wife Zivkovic Slobodan and daughter - Zivkovic Maja? I have an idea and an application to protect this family from over-authorization, from abuse, but also to ask the SUP chief for a report and determine his responsibility, Mr. Dannet Alincic. I ask the following question - is the wife of Police Chief in Sombor Dannet Alincic the Elder of the Violence Authority or the Judge for Infringements? Do the police station and the workers, or members of the station Dannet Alinčić, file misdemeanors to the wife of Chief Alinčić, and the wife of the judge for the violations, take and impose certain penalties on this family, especially Mr. Zivkovic Slobodan? To point out, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are refugees from Croatia, whom the enemies of the Serb people, as well as tens and hundreds of thousands of others, have expelled from the area where he lived, and he has found himself in the territory of Sombor municipality, where there is no protection in this country by the authorities. I ask that the abuse of Mr. Alincic and those who beat his wife and his daughter be established. I would like to introduce you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to have two reports from specialists who have found that there are numerous physical injuries, which one must answer for. It is high time, and I expect the interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic, will, in particular, take steps to suspend the functions and duties of all members of the police who have illegally participated in these actions and interventions. I'm asking to see if Mr. Dane Alincic owns a shooting range in Somboru and in which function she is in, as well as whether it is compatible with the function she performs. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this question will be asked today by the Minister of the Interior. I expect Mr. Jocic to not allow individuals to abuse their official position, to exceed their official powers, but to protect themselves against any violence, including the beatings of individuals, thanks to the fact that we have law enforcement officers today. These individuals violate the reputation of the ministry. I ask Minister Jocic to stand by justice and the law and prevent these abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8701	I thank Ambassador Peter Jojic. Anybody else report for the amendment? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8702	Thank you very much, Mr. Grouchy. It would be very interesting for Minister Milan Markovic to attend here, to really show how he can explain what the government has proposed, or how he can explain the refusal of the amendment. If we start talking here right now - we've made an amendment to Article 6, which changes Article 18, so in the present attitude 3, which becomes attitude 4, the words "starts to" are deleted, no one would have any idea what it is or what it's about. I'm still going to use this time to explain to the public a little bit more detail what this is about. Article 18. The Government Act bears the title - Distrust of the Government, mistrust of the Prime Minister and regulates the procedure for not trusting the Government. Of course, I think the public has already realized that the largest part of this law that the government has proposed refers to the government's authority when its mandate ceases. Simply, the government sees that her mandate will end quickly, so they want to secure their best position when her term is over. The possibility to vote non-trust with the government is one of the very important and very serious forms of parliamentary control of the government and always stems from the MPs. The constitution is very precisely regulated in Article 130. - a vote of mistrust to the government or a member of the government. The vote on the non-trust of the Government or of a single member of the Government may be requested by at least 60 Members of Parliament. Article 2 - a motion to vote on mistrust of the Government or individual member of the Government The National Assembly is considering at the first next session - please pay attention, the Constitution says precisely - it is considering the first next session, and at the earliest five days since the proposal was submitted. Well, the constitution says -- after the debate is over, a vote on the proposal approaches. So, very precisely, the Constitution defines the procedure for the motion to vote on the government's mistrust. Not to read any further, because the essence of my exposure is to point 2. I really ask you, Mr. Minister, to explain to me what is the reason for this precise definition in Article 130 of the Constitution to introduce new words, and they are "starting to consider". In other words, the government said in a proposal for its law -- a proposal for MPs is beginning to be considered, therefore, no -- is being considered, at the first next session of the National Assembly, at the earliest five days since the proposal was submitted. What does that mean, Mr. Minister? Does this mean that after that there's a-- the duration, etc.? Why didn't you rewrite the provision of the Constitution, in which it is said very clearly - is being considered at the first next session; after the debate is concluded, the motion is being voted upon? This is how we expect it to be amended and the next member of the law, so instead of the Prime Minister resigning, and it will be established at the first next session, it will receive a proposal from the government that, when the Prime Minister resigns, it will begin to be established at the first next session. It may be just one word, but, Mr. Minister, given what laws the government is proposing, given that there are many vague provisions, which can be interpreted in different ways, we are really wondering what the motive is, what is the reason that the government completely avoids a very precise formulation given in the Constitution of Serbia. Just to copy it, and nothing else. Knowing how this government has arisen and how many problems, how and how many problems it works, how and how many problems it tries to defend, here, and today, something that will be difficult to defend in public, simply, we begin to suspect, Mr. Minister, we wonder, what the government wants with this inserted sentence -- "it's beginning to," except that it's also preparing some marifetteluk, which is going to be followed by something that's going to be muddy, etc. I'm not going to talk about this amendment any further. Since I have 15 minutes, I am very interested in the answer to the question and explanation of Mr. Minister, which is why a precise formulation in the Constitution is not only prescribed, but, literally, Mr. Minister, by inserting the word "begins to" it is unmarked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8703	Thank you. The word has Mr. Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8704	Mr. Petronievich, there is no need to doubt that there is any bad intention here. I suppose I'd say, even, that the precision that's been done by the bill isn't bad. Moreover, I think it's a more precise sentence that says, "it's beginning to consider." I read, of course, all this over and over again, and your amendment came to me by the eye, because when I was an MP for the opposition, I also insisted on some precision. If, as an MP for the opposition, you think, or you suspect that something like this could cause some problems, if this situation arises, then I think you have an advantage. On behalf of the Government, I accept the amendment that you gave to Article 6, that the words "beginning to" are deleted from the text of the bill. I think this is the best way to solve this situation. I agree with your argument regarding the Constitution. Believe me, I don't think anything would be wrong and the other words are "begins to," but I think this is the best way to solve this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8705	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, then the MP Goran Davidovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the proposing representative accepts the amendment, he must give the right reasons for accepting the amendment. Therefore, the amendment will be in line with the constitutional norm and the amendment will fully define the review, not the launch, so, eventually, in five minutes, the suspension of the debate, so it is put on the agenda for a month or two. It's really cynical to listen to you, Mr. Minister. You don't respect the National Assembly at all. You tell the opposition MP – since you, as an MP to the opposition, question that some of the provisions we have proposed are not good, here, I now believe that you have an advantage and I accept your amendment. We have doubts about every member we've submitted to the amendment. I don't suppose it's a question of whether the solution is good or not, the basis for you to accept the amendment. That's not true. Here we have to say - we from the government didn't know how to write it well, Mr. Petronievich, you've made it exactly the right thing to do, we accept the amendment. Does that hurt your head? It doesn't hurt. Try it. Try working with a man who finds something and says, "Here's a suggestion to make it better." You don't get a crown from your head if someone here, reading the law, tells you there's a cleaner and better solution. You're insulting us here. You insult the rest of us who have doubts, whose amendments you do not accept. Who now determines whose doubt you accept and whose doubt you do not accept? Why don't you accept every doubt to Mr. Petronievich, if a man is worthy of his suspicion? Why don't you accept the SPS because he belongs to that MP group? It's not right. Minister, don't play games, we're not little children. You've got a parliamentary internship, and we've got a little more. So I accept that you can perform as an MP, but as a minister, you can't. You can't. This is about serious people, serious problems. You know why the law was written, you know what you want with that law, you know you'll leave traces of inhumanity in the ministries ahead of the shift of power, which awaits you in the first elections to come. Try to do it somehow without showing you don't appreciate what MPs do at all. So, Mr. Petronievich, your amendment is good, the SRS MP group agrees with that amendment. Nothing more. We do not agree with you because you have expressed doubts. And we express our doubts about the point and the comma that you write in the bill's proposals. If you took our doubts seriously, you would find the right measure. It's not a good government that rejects any amendments to the bill. Even worse is the government that then forces its MPs to write similar amendments, which they will accept. The worst is a government that changes the bill after two or three months in line with the amendments the opposition wrote two or three months ago. You're here somewhere, between the worst and the worst. Tell the amendment that it's good and that you accept it. Maybe you'll get a round of applause. But to tell us that the MP has the advantage because he has expressed doubts about the intentions that exist in the bill and that we now respect that you are in the O.R. is really impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8707	Thank you. The word is Milan Markovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8708	Mr. Nikolic, I don't see why you performed this way. Far from trying to insult anyone in the O.R. It is an essential right of the opposition to discuss, i.e., the mistrust or trust of the government or the Prime Minister, the essential right of the opposition, the fundamental right of the opposition, which we doubted in previous years in various ways. At the time of 2000 to 2003, I was an MP, I remember that situation, and so do you. After that, when I was an MP for the opposition, and in the end, Mr Petronijevic seemed a ruling parliamentary majority and when we asked to discuss individual ministers, we remember that there was always a catch, so, here we can't. That's why I said the opposition should have the advantage of defining that essential right, because I don't dispute it. Far from being hypocritical here, well, because it's the opposition, we're giving in. It's not my idea to accept those amendments that I said what I said, which is that they don't stand and that they're not good for this law. Yes, Mr. Petronijevic found the right measure and the right measure, when it comes to the debate on the government's mistrust, and it should be a measure through the opposition's prism, because the essential right of opposition is the measure of democracy, which is precisely to ask to discuss the government's trust. Perhaps, hopefully, in the end, I will have the opportunity to be an MP again in Parliament, so perhaps I will just insist on that right of the opposition, as I insisted two years ago, but I was denied this right in this House when I wanted to discuss the confidence of the then Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, far from insulting Mr Petronivic, far from accepting the amendments is the result of a personal relationship with Mr Petronivic or any MP. Yes, he found the right measure. My deep confidence is, I prefer it, I think it's more correct as Milisav Petronijevic wrote it, than he wrote the Secretariat for the legislation. I can't say I don't appreciate it, and at least I don't give a damn what the Legislative Secretariat did, because, believe me, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, probably, both in previous and in this government, the most professional lawyers are in the Legislative Secretariat. It doesn't occur to me that in any way I question their knowledge and their experience. These are people who probably have legal experience as many as half the MPs here have years of life or work experience. So, I didn't want to offend anyone, I accept the amendment, it's a good amendment, I'm just saying, when it comes to such things, it should be observed, perhaps, through the prism of the opposition. That's why I said it. I hope it didn't confuse you or offend you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8709	The word is by MP Goran Davidovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8710	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I think the language of the arguments and the fact of the right to discuss a single amendment is the right thing to do. I listened very carefully to the proposal of my colleague Petronievich. I think the proposal, in the amendment sense, is very meaningful. As a member of the DSS, given that the DSS has carefully followed and studied these amendments, I am taking the opportunity to say that such an amendment, which has been submitted, can be a good proposal and I think it is the right measure for what is being said. That's why we suggested it to both the government and the minister, I didn't know the minister's position, that he would accept this. Given what it says in the new constitution, and that we have an obligation to comply with this text, Article 6(2) says in one place: 'The proposal for Members of Parliament is beginning to be considered', and in the last, fourth position, it says, 'The motion for a vote of mistrust to the Prime Minister is beginning to be considered'. We believe that this "begins to", although it may have been a wish in terms of precision, is absolutely not necessary and that it is quite enough, as it says in the Constitution, to say, "The proposal of the Members of Parliament is being considered at the first next session" and "The motion to vote for mistrust to the President is being considered within the same time limit as the motion to vote for mistrust with the Government". I think this is precise enough and there's no need for further clarifications. I propose to the government, I propose to the minister, but I've heard now that the minister's position will support this proposal. The Democratic Party of Serbia has this view and I think it is in line with the Constitution, for which we really stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8711	Do any of the MPs report for this amendment? (No) National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, MP Miletic Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8712	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that my amendment, which suggests that the words 'beginning' be deleted, is also rightly accepted, as my colleague Petronijevic's amendment has been accepted. In a few words, I would like to comment on this amendment, as part of what it is, the government's proposal, when it comes to this member of the law. Therefore, it is the initiative of 60 MPs to launch a vote of mistrust to the government. The very words "beginning to consider" are very questionable and controversial, can leave a certain doubt, a team before being in article 130. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states: "It is considering" the same thing, not "it is beginning to consider". It's just that it's too much to say, "It's starting." That word may be present if the consideration of mistrust in the first session is to begin, and then to delay. So, just a solution to this article of the law and what it says is "starts," leaves doubt that, if something starts, it can stop, it can delay, which is not good. For those reasons, that word is too high. Although, "in the first next session," it is also very controversial, but unfortunately, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SPS did not cover it. I'm still going to comment. It can be in the first next session after three months, which could be the interest of the ruling majority, in favour of the daily political needs, in a given situation. Also, it says in the Constitution: 'in the first next session', but it does not prohibit a deadline in the law. The first next session is the one scheduled by law, in seven days, in ten days, for two weeks, etc. Why would that matter? I am saying, because it can be three months, and then the ruling majority in Parliament can answer that the issue of not trusting the government is delayed, but then it looks like ignoring the initiative of 60 MPs, because, as you said, Mr. Minister, the right to vote for mistrust is seen through the prism of the opposition. This right should be put on the agenda as soon as possible, so that the Government has full legitimacy and that it will not be challenged through political debates, etc., which can, in the extreme line, interfere with or harm the government. So the sooner that legitimacy has to be confirmed and proved that these 60 MPs, or the opposition, are wrong. Of course, this leaves the possibility of chain political calculations in a given situation, if this is something more serious, that some early elections buy time, that the government buys time by moving that session and making these and other moves, practically, into a campaign for new elections, etc. When it comes to this, I think that the government should always give the opposition and the team members (60) who, under the Constitution, have the right to ask that question, that it should be resolved as soon as possible and that in such a way the Government is given legitimacy or that it is actually voted mistrust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8713	The word has Mr. Milan Markovic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8714	Of course, especially the previous one, and this amendment is accepted. Not to open too much discussion, I do not agree with what was said about the possibility that we could do it differently in the law than it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the Constitution says: 'in the first next session'. Remember, at the same time, that this is the instrument that the Government can put pressure on Parliament in Article 137. I don't think it would be possible if the Constitution itself had opened up some restriction, a type of '30-day' etc., but that's less important, it's constitutional matter, and we've adopted the constitution recently and there's no need to go back to it. So, the amendment, anyway, we accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8715	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8716	For the same reason, this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8717	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8718	Mr. Milisav Petronijevic in Article 7 has made a change of type: "The government has voted with the majority of the votes of the total number of MPs." I think there's actually a little bit of a mix-up here, at least as far as I understand it, because it's very simple stuff. When the government votes non-trust, it no longer has a mandate, its mandate ends. As I understand this member of the law, this is precisely about the fact that this bill determines in which case the government has not been voted in trust, therefore, on one completely different matter, on another level of view of matters, so it seems to me that the proposal that the government has offered is better and, in my opinion, the amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8719	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8720	I don't argue that the government was going to say when the government wasn't voted in trust. I dispute something else, which is that the government has offered the title - a member of the Law on Trust, a vote of confidence, also a very serious issue, and has not said a single sentence when this mistrust was voted. It's not just a game of words. Here's why. Unlike the issues of mistrust that MPs have raised, of course, it is always driven by the opposition, asking for the government to vote for mistrust, the government has the right to ask the Assembly, because of some important issues, some events, here, let's say, now, on the matter of political conduct towards Kosovo or some other issues, that the Assembly votes on confidence in the government. What does that mean? This means that the government is asking 126 MPs to raise their hands for it, as well as opposition MPs, when they ask to vote for no confidence, they must provide 126 hands. That's when the government was voted mistrust. It is important here, with this member, that the government be the one to put it first, which will provide 126 votes for itself in order to have her voted in confidence. One more question -- why is no concrete provision of the Constitution, which says very clearly -- the National Assembly has accepted a motion to vote for no confidence in the Government if more than half of all MPs voted for it. So, the Constitution has very precisely said - 126 hands and the government has voted mistrust. The government has a member of the Law that speaks of a vote of confidence and does not state at all when she is voted on by that trust. I don't think there's any explanation as offered by the government, that's when trust isn't voted out, in which case the government falls. That's not at all questionable, and that's not at all questionable. That's what the Constitution specified. If the government votes mistrust, the government falls. If the government, on the other hand, when it asks to vote on trust, does not get those 126 votes, it falls again. That's what the Constitution defined. It's not right to explain that - given that the government is ending its mandate if her trust is not voted out, we need to regulate it. Is it really hard to conclude from the sentence - the government has been voted if it was voted by more than half of all the MPs, does it really not know what happens if it has not received 126 votes, or 126 raised hands? The essence of this amendment was clear, even in the previous law it was, but again you seem to have made it more complicated to make it clearer, to open up again stories about what it means, how many of them need to vote so the government doesn't get trust, etc. Many questions are raised without need. To conclude, it was very clear in the Constitution, it was very clear in the previous provision, i.e. in the Act amending: "The Government voted with the majority of the votes of the total number of MPs." The government crossed that off, and the title of that is trust to the government. There is, therefore, the essence to make it known that the Government is the one who has to provide 126 votes for and therefore does not need any science unless it has received 126 votes, the provision of the Constitution is applied; it can also say in the Law that it will simply stop the mandate of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8721	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted to make the law look like something. Mr. Petronijevic is right, it's two sections in the bill, one about mistrust and the other about trust. The government's department on vote of confidence is turning the government into a section on the government's non-confidential vote. So, always the opposition must have 126 votes, and when they apply for a vote of no confidence, and when the government asks for a vote of confidence, the opposition must again have 126 votes. No, the opposition has 126, if requested; a debate opens and a no-confidence vote comes to the government. The government seeking confidence, to vote on her trust, must provide 126 MPs who will vote in favour of the government. That provision is quite clear and only then does this law look like something. Otherwise, you'd have two almost the same provisions. The government has been voted in for mistrust if 126 votes and the government is not voted if it does not vote 126. That's it and what do you need both of those provisions for? No, this is the government's trust section. The government is required to secure 126 votes. Remember, under this bill, you are now predicting that during some other session, some other item of the agenda, the government comes with a proposal to vote on trust, there are no 126 MPs at the National Assembly session, no untrust has been voted against by the government. No, the government must provide 126 MPs who will support it in the O.R. when it submits a proposal for a vote of confidence to the government. I don't know where Mr. Secretary went now, if he has someone smart, just to tell him, if he's accepted the previous amendments logically interpreting the bill, I think he has to accept the amendments now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8723	Any other MPs answer for a word? (No) I'm taking a break until 15.05.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. We've stopped by the amendment on Article 8. National MPs Mr Dejan Mirovic and Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8725	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. The draft law amending the existing Article 20 by deleting Article 2. The stance speaks of the National Assembly in the first session, without debate, receiving the knowledge that the Prime Minister has resigned and thus ends his term of office. By erasing this position, the SPS considers it necessary to remain a legal solution that is being ordered to schedule the first session seven days from the reception of that resignation. I don't think it's a good argument from the government that explains why this amendment is being rejected. The government says that such a solution, where it is said, is in the first next session, without deadline, in line with the law, that is, with the new constitution. In fact, they say that the new constitution, it's Article 132. The Constitution does not establish the obligation of the National Assembly to hold a session within seven days of the date of its resignation. Also, this member of the Constitution says, or does not say, but does not prohibit the disarmament, or setting a time limit in which the first session of the National Assembly will be held. Why does it matter? That's what I was just saying about Article 7, the first session of the government at which the resignation can be accepted after a few months. In such a way, the ruling majority can calculate and buy time in a given political situation, delay what the problem is in Serbia, and this is the government crisis and the appointment of new elections. So, even the previous constitution, I stress, the Republic of Serbia did not specify within what time period the National Assembly had to be scheduled to discuss the government's resignation, so the Law on Government was passed, in which it was specified seven days after the day of resigning, or the day when the National Assembly resigned from the government. Thus, even this constitution, the current constitution does not prohibit a deadline in which the first session will be held. The Constitution states that the Assembly can be convened at the earliest five days since the resignation, but it should also be said by which deadline should be set at the latest by the Assembly to discuss this important issue. So, by buying time, the Government of the Republic of Serbia at a given time, when it resigns, if the National Assembly's authority does not put it on the agenda, that is, do not schedule that first session immediately or as soon as possible, but rather spends several months, especially during that period between the regular and extraordinary session, that ruling majority, with the government ahead, can organise the campaign, to prepare, to say, public opinion, their political moves, for new elections, and that at some point, the issue of power, a very important issue, has been raised to the party interests of the previous ruling majority. For these reasons, the SPS considers that this position should be deleted, which means leaving a period of seven days, because the new constitution does not prohibit the setting of a date, because it - at the first session, can be within so many and so many days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8726	The People's MP Verica Radeta has the amendment and then the MP Branislav Nedimovic. I apologize, MP Dejan Mirovic, first of all, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8727	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns Article 8(2). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act. The amendment is required to remain an old solution set out in Article 20. The government law. According to him, after the Prime Minister's resignation, a session of the Assembly is scheduled within seven days. However, in the draft law amending and supplementing the law, the deadline is abolished. The proposer explained this abolition by arguing that Article 132 paragraph 3 of the new constitution does not have a seven-day deadline, but the proposer should bear in mind that the purpose of the law is, among other things, to discuss and specify constitutional norms. That's the attitude of a legal theory. For example, Jean-Lick Ober argues that, in addition to the constitution, there are laws whose specific function is to complement and specify constitutional standards. Slobodan Jovanovic writes: "On the one hand, individual laws have to ease the great rigidity of the general rules, on the other hand, to limit the arbitraryness that characterizes the administrative action when it moves outside the rules." Therefore, a definition that can be fully applied to the situation that arises after the Prime Minister's resignation. I will also remind you of the controversy in our public about the regulations that the so-called technical government has made, as well as the controversy about who can talk to Ahtisaari and the like. Slobodan Jovanovic writes that the Constitution, by its nature, is a general rule and stands out - the Constitution is an organisation, and ordinary laws - are the functioning of their authority. And Hans Helzen points out - The Constitution in a material sense determines the competent authorities and the process of creating general legal norms, mainly legal ones, and only to a certain extent, which nature requires, their content, and this positively - by orders and negatively - bans. Therefore, within the framework of Article 132. The Constitution was a space for the creativity of the legislator. The constitution can't be an excuse for non-regulating the realistically possible life situation, but rather, an incentive for legal regulation. The law is not separate from real life. On the contrary, in this context, even the constitution itself is constitutionally determined, as stated by Professor Radmila Vasic, with the help of other scientific disciplines such as history, sociology, philosophy and political sciences. The legislator should therefore take into account the political instability that arises in the event of the resignation of the Prime Minister. We can only imagine what would happen in case the Prime Minister resigns without a reasonable session of the Assembly being scheduled. So much better was the solution that predicted a seven - day period. In that sense, this amendment was submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution proposed in the amendment is in the spirit of our legal tradition, more specifically, in the spirit of continental law. For example, even older German legal schools felt that there were special situations that were justified, even necessary, to regulate the law. It can be said, in a broader sense, as noted by the famous Professor Andrija Gams, when he analyzes the German Civil Code of 1896, that German-Austrian law is known for its accuracy. On the other hand, our legal tradition is the sides of indeterminateness and abstract formulation characteristic of Anglo-Saxon law. For example, Dyce analyzed the rule that in Britain Parliament must meet at least once a year. If that doesn't happen, there is: "A violation of constitutional practice or conjecture, but not a violation of law". Dys then makes an argument that has nothing to do with justice. He believes that it was due to Parliament's non-session that the military act stopped, or therefore there should be a British army. So in Britain, it is fear of anarchy that forces Parliament to meet at least once a year, not legal norms. Is that the system we're after? If so, what do we know about the functioning of that system? So, not about his formal acts brought centuries ago, such as the Grand Charter of Freedom, brought in 1215, a petition on the rights of 1628 or the Act of Call for Parliament from 1640, which, of course, every reasonable man supports, but on contemporary practice in Britain. For example, the 1994 political agreement between Blair and Brown on the division of power in the Labour Party and the state. If we seek such a system, then we need neither laws nor constitution, nor precise legal norms, but only indefinite deadlines and fear of anarchy and the state will function as such. Of course, as a result, there are strong oligarchs and weak authority, which is not our invention, but historic, or British. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment should also be adopted for the sake of legal certainty. According to Professor Radmila Vasic's definition, the objective of regulation is the continuity and invariability of the situation. Security means that people know in advance what situations are rightly arranged and that legal certainty contributes to general security. In this context, failure to set a time limit for calling a session after the prime minister's resignation certainly does not contribute to legal certainty. As for general security and in the political, economic sense, Belgium is the best example of what brings political instability in the country and the lack of a legitimate government in the longer term, as a result of the crisis that occurred because no government was formed after 100 days – Belgium's credit rating has fallen. According to public opinion polls in October 2007, two-thirds of the Flames believe Belgium will split in the near future. Even 45% have declared themselves an independent state of Flanders. Former Prime Minister Martins believes this kind of political uncertainty will deter foreign investors. The German "Cate" says that language and cultural barriers are greater than common interests in Belgium. I will remind you that income per head in Flandrija and Valona is more than 20,000 euros, and in Brussels, even over 50,000 euros. Belgium, on the other hand, has no problem with Kosovo and Metohija either. So if there's a crisis and political instability in such a rich country, we can only assume what would happen to us. That's why legal standards need to be precise. That is why this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8728	The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, then Branislav Nedimovic, and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have heard the excellent explanation of my colleague Mirovic on this amendment, supported by a series of theoretical and practical examples from parallel legislation. I'm going to pay a little more attention to what's going on in Serbia today. First, this amendment of the SRS is absolutely principled, because we think that, I repeat it very often, legal norms must be clear, concise, concrete, such that they do not leave much opportunity, if possible, that they do not leave at all the possibility of abuse and some free interpretations. Article 8, which speaks of amendments to Article 20 of the basic law, says that - the National Assembly at the first next session, which is about the resignations of the Prime Minister, means, and about the resignations of the Government, we have proposed not to delete what you have deleted, which is - at the first session held within seven days of the receipt of the resignation without debate, is entitled to the knowledge that the president has resigned, etc. So that's what's important - to keep that deadline for the government's session scheduled. We also got an explanation why the government can't accept it. The amendment is not accepted, as the solution set out in Article 20 of Article 2 of the current Government Act is in line with the new constitution, Article 132(2). The Constitution, which does not establish the obligation of the National Assembly to hold the session within seven days. I will now quote Article 132 paragraph 3. The constitution, which says, "The National Assembly at the first next session finds the resignation of the Prime Minister." I ask the government's promoter, Mr. Milan Markovic, absent most of the day, and very nervous, at least that's how he proved himself in communication with this place, whether he's from what I've read now, and that's the position of Article 3th, Article 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, can see a ban on setting that deadline? Is the determination of that time limit in any way contrary to this provision? Absolutely not, on the contrary. You know, I guess, if the Constitution were the highest legal act, the framework legal act, because if everything written in the Constitution from word to word was passed into the law, then we wouldn't need laws, we'd make one larger constitution and every larger area, and social, that's how we regulate the Constitution. That's not how you do it anywhere in the world. Why do we Serbian radicals have a particular concern, therefore, in addition to the principled attitude, besides our belief that this is absolutely in accordance with the law, in addition to the fact that the amendment allows, or excludes the possibility of abuse, and that this applies to all future Parliament presidents, when it comes to the current President of Parliament? I'll remind you why. How can we trust Oliver Dulic that he, with honor, will tell him to hold, to schedule that cabinet session until Boris Tadic tells him - now, now is the time? No, we can't trust him, because I've shown you many times, and today, for the sake of Serbia's public, I want to tell you that the deadlines for calling the elections in the municipalities of Kula, Bogastic, Zrenjanin, Smederevo, Velika Gradište, Smederjevska Palanka, Valjevo, Užice, Babusnica and Leskovac. Oliver Dulic is not interested in this, as he is not interested in the obligations under Article 42, 5 of the Law on Local Self-Government - the President of the National Assembly, which in this case Oliver Dulic, is calling for, within 15 days of the end of the term of office of the municipality president, elections for the president of the municipality, if there is no less than six months left. So, based on this very clear, precise and concrete provision, Oliver Dulic had an obligation to hold elections to elect Belgrade mayor by last Friday, or until last Friday, because of the fact that the late Nenadu Bogdanovic's term ended because of his death. There is no legal basis that gives Mr Oliver Dulic the right to disobey this provision, unless a man is a masochist and is fully aware of the order of those who will end up in the Padinska Skele, I mean prison, of course. I am convinced that this kind of action by Mr Oliver Dulic is absolutely political, that the President of Parliament must not behave. It is indisputable, he is a member of the DS, he is political protagonist Sonja Licht, that is his right, his determination, but he must respect the law and the Constitution as President of Parliament. How can we believe, ladies and gentlemen, Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic and, again, Oliver Dulic, how can they tell us that the government claims that this amendment should not be accepted if we have an unconstitutional situation in the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. If the President of Parliament, together with the Presidents of the Government and the State, deafens against the Article. Three, five, nine. The law implementing the Constitution, if we haven't finished all the jobs we've been bound by the Constitutional Law, ladies and gentlemen, if these formal-legal, absolutely correct reasons aren't enough, then think about it. Do not support lawlessness, do not support unconstitutional conditions, do not support government proposals at all costs, even if they are aware that, by applying such a Article 20. The government law, the President of Parliament, and this one now, may come into a situation to break the law again, to break the constitution again. You know, you don't think the government's too tough on you. You can see that even when you're talking about some future election -- one in a pin, the other in a board, like horns in a bag. That is, of course, your business, but it is the problem of the Republic of Serbia, or the citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for this reason we are trying to convince you to accept this amendment, if nothing else, to make it easier for you. You know, if you support the government that you're creating a legal framework that can't break the law, the President of Parliament, too, then it's both nicer and easier for you. Then you won't be able to remind you at any moment that your top state officials are breaking the law, that the President of Parliament is in the most harsh way in violation of the Law on Local Self-Government, that he doesn't have to call the elections, the ones he has to call, that he's talking to on B92 television this morning, and he hasn't apologized to the MPs for waiting for him in the O.R. 20 minutes while he chats with the head of the Cajirs, how he's making some personal views, which, absolutely, have nothing to do with the truth, have nothing to do with the law, how he dares to say that with 67 MPs is an empty hall. It's just amazing, and you, colleagues, are offended when from time to time we remind you of how many MPs the ruling coalition is currently in the O.R. So we have justifiable reasons to doubt the good intentions of Parliament's president and, above all, because of him, we insist that this amendment be accepted by counterpart Dejan Mirovic. You heard the argument given by Mr. Dejan Mirovic. You have heard, of course, and what is very important, and it is about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this insolent argument of the government, in terms of what is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no interference with keeping this norm bound by the National Assembly, or by the President of the National Assembly, when it comes to the resignation of the Prime Minister and the resignation of the Government, that, at the first session held within seven days of the day of his resignation, without debate, he takes note that the Prime Minister has resigned, thus ending his term of office. I'll remind you, but I'll talk more about it when I talk about the amendment that I've made, about those resignations of "I will -- I won't" members of G17 plus. So we have a lot of examples from practice, from so-called. democratic practices, from the five-octobaric coup to today, as far as you, self-called Democrats, are not prepared to obey the law. On the contrary, how ready you are to break the law, how much you do it every day, how much without any morals, without having any responsibility, you are violating the highest act of this country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we are obliged to warn you, first of all, for the sake of the Serbian public, here publicly, not to say later that we did not tell you. We warned you. I don't know what you're smiling about, buddy. This is a very serious situation. It is a very serious fact that you support Oliver Dulic, who does not think to sign, to call the election for mayor of Belgrade. Why don't you do it if in your, uh, Gilas newspaper you brag that sometimes you have 10 rivals, sometimes 20, the other day, even, 50? What Boris Tadic would say, come on, stand on the line, in line with the law, so you can see how you will go through this political struggle with the SRS candidate. You are not prepared to accept what every one of us knows – that the candidates of the SRS are the ones who will beat you in all future elections, so you are trying to understand the choices as it suits you. Comrade Albianich, if you're still here, I can see that some of you from this room, from this line here, would like to replace you as chairman. They're warning you of the Rules of Procedure. I call upon them to warn you from this place if the chairman has violated the Rules of Procedure. Here, fellow Members, one, two and three, that I do not call you names, so say here that our chairman, the one you support, violates the Rules of Procedure and in the day of the vote, vote that he has violated the Rules of Procedure if he has broken the Rules of Procedure. I ask you nicely, and it would be better to listen to what we recommend - to vote for this amendment, to have much less problems and much less headaches, and to be, I don't mean the MPs, but to you from the ruling coalition, much less in line for the Padinska Skele and Zabela, which is what awaits you after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8730	Just to resolve the misunderstanding. So there are two amendments with the same text. Mrs. Radeta didn't break the Rules of Procedure. The remaining time of the SRS is seven minutes. Now the word has been given by MP Branislav Nedimovic, and then by MP Zoran Krasic. Again, two amendments with the same text are at stake. Thank you. (Zoran Krasic from the place: You can't read. Read it, it's not two amendments with the same text. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8731	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have reported on the amendment submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, who reads: 'In Article 8. The draft law, which amends the existing Article 20, paragraph 2 is deleted. I will not explain that other amendment, but will be explained by my colleague, Petkovic. Amendments and additions to the Government Act provided for, in Article 20 - that the Prime Minister could resign, which he referred to the president of the National Assembly and was informed of by the President of the Republic and the public. It is also said in recital 2 -- the National Assembly, in its first session, without debate, takes note that the Prime Minister has resigned and thus ends his mandate. Then go the following positions, heading 3 and point 4. This is, in particular, about this seven-day period, for which counterparts Mihajlovic and counterpart Mirovic felt should remain in the government law, that there is some deadline that would be needed, related to resigning. This is also a legal technique, because there are provisions in the laws of certain laws that follow from more power legal acts, which is in this case the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, what has been proposed by amendments to the Government Act, where it is said, therefore, is prescribed this Article 132 paragraph 3. - that the National Assembly in the first session determines the resignation of the Prime Minister. The DSS parliamentary group believes that the proposed position, relating to changes and additions to the Government Act, should stand as the Government has proposed, because this is how this matter is fully regulated, and it stems from the Constitution. As I recall, during the previous year, during October-November, there was a large majority of MPs behind the text of the Constitution that passed the referendum. Absolutely, here I do not deny the conclusion that it is possible to define that deadline in the amendments to the Government Act. In theory, however, it is possible to put it in this text, but I believe that what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed is also behind it by the DSS parliamentary group. One more thing I would like to point out, that the original text of the government law was passed in 2006, before the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, and it was accordingly necessary to correct it. For this reason, these amendments and additions to the Government Act are also on the agenda, hence this amendment, that is, this provision proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that there is room here for this government proposal, and for this reason I call on all Members of the People to refuse to accept this amendment from my fellow Members and to make a negative statement on it in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8732	Thank you, Mr. Nedimovic. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8733	So, of course, I am not contesting the possibility to formulate this article of the Law as the Government has suggested, that this issue of resignation be considered at the first session of the National Assembly, but the argument that you, a colleague, have given does not explain much and does not disprove what is concerned and what is the danger if it remains as the Government has suggested. I'm asking, is it true that the appointment of the first session can be delayed, perhaps, for several months in the summer period between the two sessions, for example? Is that possible? Furthermore, I ask the question, if no one will decidently say it is, can it be for certain political reasons, which go in favour of the then ruling majority. Personally, I don't think the Constitution has limited, we've heard it here, and I've given such an explanation, the Constitution, so it allows, by being said - in the first session, not prohibiting the setting of a deadline within which the session must be held and accepted by the government's resignation. Also, the previous constitution did not define at what time the session was scheduled, but a law was passed which was defined and said – within seven days. I guess it goes in favour of that ruling majority to be politically clean in front of the people, in front of the citizens, and to stick to the letters of the law at all times, in the best possible way, to be effective, so that the processes, politically and others, continue as soon as possible. For these reasons, we believe that this attitude should, however, be erased and done to make everything clear, and the Constitution does not limit it. The government's argument that consent with the new constitution is established does not drink water at all. The constitution does not prohibit you from defining it and making time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8734	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Miroslav Petkovic, about the Amendment. Mr. Krasic, I checked, it's the same wording as the amendment, it's essentially the same. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8735	Mr. Albianic, if it were numbers, I wouldn't be allowed to line up with you and Mr. Shami, because it would be funny if I were to convince you of your numbers. However, these two amendments are not in the same text and this is easily determined when read as it is written. One amendment says - in Article 8. The bill, which amends the existing article 20, should now be entangled, paragraph 2 is deleted. Now, which position 2 is deleted, Article 20 or Article 8. A bill of law? Mr. Mirovic has made a legally-technically correct amendment, which reads in Article 8(2), is deleted. I don't want to lecture you here right now, and you don't pay for those lectures that were, just so you know you're wrong, because it's not the same text. What are we spinning about here? We're spinning around something that was a comparative advantage of the DSS. Aligrudić listen, in 2005, when the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in this room, a provision on a period of seven days was incorporated. Why? To avoid a situation similar to the one we've had since 2001, let me remind you, when a proposal was submitted to vote against the government of Zoran Djindjic. Then from here, where the "vodoks", Cedomir Jovanovic said that we should take it off, it can't be on the agenda, they can't file a motion for a vote of mistrust for those who didn't vote for the government. That was the case, and that argument was adopted by Zoran Balinovac and in 2005, within Article 20, a seven-day deadline was introduced, and the debate, Mr Aligrudic, was led by the government's right to explain its resignation. Run away again. I remember everything, I said I had a bad memory. So that's when we only argued about whether the government had the right to explain its resignation. Then we said, if the government explains their resignation, then MPs have the right to participate in the debate and to say what they think about the resignation. Now, is the survival of these few words in Article 20, paragraph 2, unconstitutional? It's not unconstitutional. Is it desirable? Yes, it is. You've heard the argument as to why it takes for the norms to be precise. Are there any political reasons for the deadline being prescribed by law? There are. Now I'm going to give you an example of what it's going to look like. They're fighting, a little more than they're in a fight right now, those who are in government and the state are going on two tracks. One follows the trail of Boris Tadic, the other tracks the trail of Vojislav Kostunica. The government formally resigns, but those from the DSS arrive before the Assembly is resolved by the president of the National Assembly. Why? Because he's important, he schedules a session. But they're not responsible for finding out as soon as possible that government's resignation, they'd be able to extend it for a year and a half, and maybe 15 years, because they have this tendency. Why? That then the President of the Republic couldn't apply exactly the member they're calling on. What member is that? We are going back to what we talked about before noon, and as for the resignation and the provision where there was talk that a new government should be elected within 30 days; if it is not elected, then the president is disbanding the National Assembly. So that's where we are in a matter called organic unity -- that is, without the support of the people, without popularity, and by order of foreign forces, we stay as long as possible in power in Serbia, in order to destroy Serbia as thoroughly as possible. Whoever formally manages the government of the democratic bloc, it is the pussical government in continuity, he has the job to do. If an amendment is adopted, both of these amendments, then anyone who is chairman of the National Assembly, the president, first of all, is required when he gets the paper on which he writes his resignation to schedule a session within seven days where it would be determined, and the act of finding it is necessary for the president to complete his part of the work on the future prime minister and the election of that new government here within 30 days. If there are no precise provisions, then the technical government becomes a turbo technical government and loses all meaning. Then there goes RTB Bor, and Elektroprivreda, and NIS, and banks, and they're calling for the legalism of something they kicked out of their law, something they put in two years ago. That seven-day deadline you put in and you said -- it's a dam for democracy, it's a guarantee of the rule of law, not to get into a situation, and then you just named DS, Cedomir Jovanovic and those marifeluks and those tendencies. Just to remind you that in the government of Zoran Djindjic, there was once a debate on the confidence of one minister, Vladan Batic. It was an initiative, or proposal for Gaš Knezevic, never included in the agenda. It was for Dusan Mihajlovic, never came to the agenda. Only in the fifth attempt, at the end of 2003, came the government of Zoran Zivkovic's agenda and the mistrust of the entire government. At that time, we all objected to the fact that in the Law on Government, there are no precise provisions in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly on how the session is scheduled, where trust is discussed. It is a similar situation with sessions to be taken to the knowledge, according to the government's resignation. But now it's not a good time. Why isn't your deadline fit? It's the marifetteluk. You see, Mr. Albian, you had no need to worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8736	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Before that, let me inform the National Assembly that, in case this debate continues after 18 hours, we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8737	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman earlier said that we are practically having a united debate over these two amendments, colleagues Mihajlovic and colleagues of Mirovic, and I will agree with counterpart Krasic. I think my colleague Mirovic's amendment is more precise, because it is true that it refers to Article 8 and Article 2 which is proposed to be deleted. To explain to those who do not understand it, it refers to Article 8, and I will read Article 20 of the current government law, where it is said - the Prime Minister can resign, which is referred to by the President of the National Assembly and notified by the President of the Republic and the public. In the second position, which is also being debated - the National Assembly, at the first next session, held within seven days of the resignation, without discussion, is receiving the notice that the Prime Minister has resigned and the government has suspended his mandate. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Government Act, these words are practically deleted -- which takes place within seven days of the adoption of the resignation. The government's explanation for why it did not accept this amendment and the position that DSS-NS MPs are defending is clear today. I'll also apply to Article 132. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I remind you, is a convincing majority adopted in this parliament and confirmed afterwards at a referendum, attended by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Item 3 of Article 132 votes out: "The National Assembly at the first next session finds the resignation of the Prime Minister". The explanation is simple. The amendment is not accepted because this decision of Article 20(2) of the current government law is brought into line with the new constitution. So he does not establish the obligation of the National Assembly to hold the session within seven days. A colleague, Krasic, also gave an argument that I can agree with in some ways. That it's legally possible -- yes. That it's not against the constitution - it's not. But that's necessary - it's not. Therefore, I am sure that, no matter who it was at that time, if such a case occurs, as a responsible man and as someone who is in a high state office, in the shortest possible time, the session of the National Assembly will be scheduled, where, if he has a wish, the Prime Minister will resign to explain the reasons for his resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8738	Thank you. Branislav Nedimovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8739	I just wanted to point out the situation, that my words, which I just said about this speaker, about the amendment to amendments to the Government Act, wouldn't be misread. At no time have I said that this amendment is impossible, or that it does not comply with the Constitution. There is a possibility that this matter, i.e. those deadlines, is predicted, but I also stand at the point of view that this is not necessary to establish, because it is an extremely large issue and I don't think that anyone should risk so much, in a political sense, to play with a situation like this, first of all, because of the fact that in the past, what you've been saying, were these situations. I think it's our long history and we shouldn't go back to that kind of situation. I just want to say one more thing. When we held a previous debate on the Law on Government, I think that in 2005 we passed this law, the same thing was said about these deadlines, as I remember, by some MPs in the Parliament's meeting at that time, it was also said that it would not be good to have this seven-day period in matter governed by the Law on Government, but rather it should be an opportunity that would be provided for the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is thus affecting the rights of the MPs sitting in the Serbian Parliament and that this is the thing to be regulated by the Rules of Procedure. I think the way that this is now regulated, passed down by the Constitution, is the best way to regulate this matter, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can be regulated more closely when the resignation of the Prime Minister arrives to the National Assembly. I am absolutely standing by the claim that this amendment should not be accepted in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8740	Thank you. Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8741	Mr. Dulic, I am absolutely certain that you will best interpret my words that follow. When the government resigns, or gets the strength to sign some piece of paper whose resignation is at the top, or when an individual from the government does so, the minister overwrites it, then writes - the resignation, that means he's sick of it in politics, that it's disgusting for him to see fellow ministers, that he can no longer act by law and by the Constitution, that he just gets sick of everything in that government. Now, to get him out of that psychosomatic state, it is necessary to determine that resignation as soon as possible, in order to complete the election within 30 days, in order for him to be ecologically correct as an individual and as a government after 30 days. Those who have inserted a seven-day deadline, are now sending me a message that they love mud, that they love the pomegranate, that they love the state of the undefined position of the individual and their dear, president. I guess when a man resigns, he looks as fast as he can to get out of that building, but no, you see what they're sending us as a message. I resigned, you'll be able to figure it out in 17 months, and then the president will finish his job in a month in the Assembly, pick out some new government and discuss the election, and they'll have finished the job by then – they'll be hiring sister-in-laws, aunts, privatizing everything possible, etc. You see, when there's no normal argument to defend one political stance, then we see that they are anti-ecology and anti-hygienic. They would like their president, who resigned as Prime Minister, to suffer and suffer longer in Germany's number 9 and to see Djelic, Sutanovac, Gilas, etc. Let's not talk now, but we'll have to keep an eye on each other. You don't have people to argue with. This is the matter that should be solved, first of all, by the Rules of Procedure. Why? Because this matter is bound by the President of the National Assembly when it is due to schedule a session. It couldn't have been done in the Rules of Procedure. Why? This Rules of Procedure has been massacred in continuity. First he was massacred by a Martian, then massacred by this lady who must not enter the Assembly, Micicka, and then tried to be smart Predrag Markovic. He had a shot, he had a shot, Micko, you know, he just had a shot. He tried to be smart and fix something, but right after that, he left G17 plus and you chose him as the Honorary President. Yes, I must say, it's true. So you have to vote for this amendment, you from the DSS, I'm not talking about the DSS, it's another firm. Why? Because these amendments return your idea of a solution, your legal approach that everything must be precisely governed by the law, because you, for God's sake, must respect Slobodan Jovanovic. You swear on him. You just heard what he thinks about this. What did this Free Jovanovic write? Why don't you respect? You won't, because there are other interests. It's a clean marifetteluk. It's time to remind you, you've already proven to us that we can have no choice, that without a president, we can do without the government, without the police, without the military. [[Incursion from the O.R.: time.]] We can do without anything, but we can't without a democratic bloc. That's the message. "Puclear," they say, we're the law, we're the measure for everything. Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic, measure for everything you need the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8742	Thank you. National MP Dr Bojan Milovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Branislav Nedimovic. Do you want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8743	Just one minute, I won't be long, according to the Rules of Procedure, article 101 is misread. I just wanted to say one thing. In 2004, the DSS showed its readiness to build a state and build institutions. After 2004, you remember the state we had, simply, we didn't have the institution of the president of Serbia, we had many institutions that were unable to meet all the demands that the time had put before them. I think that we, as the DSS, have shown how much we care about this state and these institutions, and, in the end, by adopting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't want us to have an objection that we don't respect institutions. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8744	I'm not sure you're entitled to a replica. I know you'll find some groundwork. Here you go, anyway, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8745	Mr. Dulic, the basis for the replica is that, first of all, he looked at me and everything he said told me, and let me just tell you something. When he came out, Mr. Dulic, he called for article 101, and the interpretation of article 101 is only in your jurisdiction, so you know. I didn't want to warn you about that. I have the right to a replica. For what? Because we heard praises about how the DSS saved the state and made it possible for us to get institutions. You're right, we got the institution of the president of the Republic, but two days after the resolution he urged people to go to vote in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs. You've installed such an institution for us. I wouldn't call myself so much for that legalism. We didn't have a president, we got one. What did we get? Boris Tadic. The president, by your count. Come on, if it's your turn, say it. We got the president of Serbia according to the DSS. Why? In the second round, you said that Nikolic must not be president, he must be Boris Tadic, he is a democratic bloc and Boris Tadic immediately – the tick, the knife in your back. That's your problem. Looks like you like that knife in your back. So you criticized him for the People's Office, so you criticized him for his relationship with the Army, so you wanted the Special Forces to take him from the Army and be in charge of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These are your institutions. Your institutions are zero. You need institutions to hire your own. They are institutions if they're only your own. That's your logic. You made it possible. What else did you make possible? Explain to me what. Are these people who criticise privatisation in the newspapers, who doesn't know when he goes to work, where he goes to work, are these people people who talk about the tycoons who master Serbia? You're boasting about the institutions. Where are your banks? Is there any banks? Whose are they? Well, why didn't your institution solve where the money was from Cyprus? Why didn't your institution solve something? This is your legal approach, which you demonstrate here as well. Let me remind you, Mr. Dulic, what we're asking for to remain in Article 20, paragraph 2, is exactly what the DSS wrote. That legalism of theirs can't last two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8746	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Bojan Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8747	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 of the Government Act and suggested that Section 3 be deleted as it says here. The government's explanation says Article 20 provides for an opportunity for the Prime Minister to explain his resignation. There's nothing disputed about that. It's what I'm going to try to explain in the next few minutes. The position of this same member says something that I don't like very much, but it's not a problem right now, that the Assembly is resigning to knowledge, as if it should be admitted to ignorance. This concludes the parliament's authority on the government's resignation, as if the resignation of the Prime Minister, and thus the government, something that MPs only need to take into account. In any case, the Prime Minister should not hear what a significant move like this, in my opinion, should say MPs of the National Assembly. I'll remind you it's something that probably intrigues this congregation. Even at the memorial session, there's something said, and like this, we're about to be put into a situation where one of these acts is left without any comment. What is significant is that the SPS has been trying, for days, as well as other opposition parties in Parliament, to give meaning, if there is nothing more it can do, to the work of this parliament, to this high house, at least to put it in the same rank with the government. It is one cry for Parliament to be put, at least, in an equal position with the government. That is why the proposal to delete the 3rd position, and this amendment could go in the direction of opening the debate on the resignation of the Prime Minister. This, at the very least, remains what's in attitude 2 and essence. So Parliament takes note of the resignation of the Prime Minister. It should be noted that resignation, in itself, is not an act of something that involves a good condition, some good relations, and some good directions, as soon as the government has come into a position to resign. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that a debate should certainly be conducted; unless the debate is to be conducted, it should not have the right to have either prime minister or MPs. That is the essence of this amendment. To avoid further debt, I suggest that MPs support this amendment, i.e. to delete the position of Article 20(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8748	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8749	I'm reporting for the amendment of my esteemed colleague, Dr. Bojan Milovanovic. I don't agree with this amendment, and I don't think it should be accepted. Namely, the government is the executive authority, elected in the National Assembly, and it is natural for the Prime Minister to have the right to explain the reasons that led him to resign, precisely, in front of the MPs who elected him. The government, by its actions, is intruding into the lives of each individual in society and the Prime Minister, therefore, has the duty and responsibility to take care of each of them. Citizens, among other things, must be familiar with the reasons for resigning and in order to prevent the arbitraryness of the MPs themselves, to conclude the possible reasons for the resignation. Just imagine a situation that happens today, say, that the prime minister resigns. What only some representatives of opposition groups could talk about are the reasons! At the very end, the shortest possible explanation. At the very least, every president of the municipal board has the right to explain his resignation if he withdraws from a certain duty. Then it would be extremely unserious to deny such a right to the prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8750	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, MP Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8751	Thank you, Mr. President. Honestly, I have to admit that there is logic in this which our colleague says about the explanation of her attitude on the amendment, as there is logic in what counterpart Bojan Milovanovic says. Then it would be logical for the government to propose an amendment that would bring one and the other opinions together, to put themselves in an equal position both the Prime Minister and the MPs of the National Assembly. Why would the explanation of the resignation, which is indisputably a very important political act and opens much to the fate of the country, perhaps for the position of some people in the government, but, in general, for the fate of the country, remain just a matter of interpreting the Prime Minister? Because the government will have the opportunity to explain its position, Prime Minister, not to talk about it, through the Public Service, as an independent media house that only promotes the government's views. I'm saying this with sarcasm, because we know that every night they're at the public service and they explain what they think they should do. Others don't have that option. People, do you notice that MPs of the National Assembly, if they are not part of the ruling coalition, or are not, on some basis, interested media representatives simply unable to declare their political views? It would be logical to put in the same position as the representative, or one of the most important representatives, given that the president of the state is another representative of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia. So, when the Prime Minister wants to explain his resignation, which makes sense, then that right must also be given to MPs, and then to open the debate afterwards, so MPs can say what they think about the resignation. Someone might say -- they shouldn't have, someone would say -- they should have, they should have given reasons for and against, but only then would the citizens have the opportunity to fully know all things and political views about one resignation. counterpart Bojan Milovanovic was offered not to place a part of the executive government in a privileged position in the assembly compared to parliament. No, but the resignation is received to the knowledge, no discussion is opened, or vice versa, that a different solution could be found. I think that would have different ways of involving relations between the National Assembly and the Government. Why would only part of a branch of government be in a situation to declare its political views and state views, I do not dispute that, and that the most significant legislative body - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, does not say a word about it? That doesn't make sense. So either one or the other, or -- neither. That was an emergency.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8752	About this amendment, MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, then the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, how justified is the amendment of our colleague, Dr. Bojan Milovanovic, shown in Article 133. A constitution that regulates the resignation and dismissal of a member of the government. Paragraph 4 reads: "The National Assembly is also considering voting on a motion to dismiss a member of the Government at the first next session." I ask you, do you really expect someone to vote and consider without being able to say anything about it? How can we convince the MPs of a different view of the Prime Minister or one of the ministers if he resigns and we can't say anything? So what you suggested is contrary to Article 133. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I ask that we take care of it. I know you're going to tell me that it says here: "The National Assembly is considering and voting on a motion to resolve a member of the Government," but since Article 133 refers to resignation and resolution, and the resignation of a member of the Government is not defined differently, it is not defined by this member of the Constitution as a different procedure, it is assumed that the same procedure for resigning and resolution. Please pay particular attention and see how much Mr. Bojan Milovanovic's amendment is justified and in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8754	On this amendment, it is the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8755	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is undeniable that Mr. Bojan Milovanovic's amendment is appropriate to improve the text of the law, but I had no intention of reporting for this amendment. I'll tell you why, in the end, I did, but I'll remind you first of something, first of all, for the public to know what we're talking about here. Article 20(3) The government law, which speaks of the resignation of the Prime Minister, says the Prime Minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. The previous view says that the National Assembly in the first next session, without debate, takes note that the Prime Minister resigned and thus ends his mandate. So these two positions of the same member are in absolute collegiation. It's either one thing or another. Either we accept this to be held in the first session, of course, with that intervention, which should be -- within seven days, let us understand the government's resignation and that we are all silent about it, or, if the Prime Minister will explain his resignation, we will be able to communicate with that Prime Minister at the moment he resigns. What especially made me come to the phone and help explain the colleagues who spoke about this amendment? It is precisely the fact that what the DSS colleague said is in favour of its explanation in favour of the necessity of supporting this amendment. I wrote down exactly what she said. He says -- imagine if the prime minister now resigned, what some opposition MPs would say about him. This is truly amazing, to write a law, to formulate it by making it impossible for the opposition MPs to say what they have to say about the Prime Minister, even when he resigns! Actually, I wouldn't say - even at that point, but on the contrary, right then. If it has come to this point that the Prime Minister is resigning, if he has some of his reasons to present to Parliament, then he must certainly be left to the MPs the opportunity to ask him some of what he may not have said, some of what he tried to conceal, to hide, to make it impossible for the MPs to find out what the real reason for, possibly, resigning. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is only a confirmation that this amendment should be voted on and the MPs of the SRS will vote so in voting day. Mr. Stanimirović, I don't know what's funny to you, you might be pinching, as you did the other night, or, when you're on one television, supporting that fascisoid drunkard Milos Vassic, you said that every time you see that in 2007, socialists and radicals sit in the National Assembly, even when he sees radicals...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8756	I'd just like to warn you that you've used a very ugly word for a man who isn't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8757	Milos Vasic is a fascisoid drunkard and don't be his lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8758	I give you one warning because you insult a man who is not present here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8759	It's enough that it was Mr. Milan Stanimirović that night, which I am now commenting on, when all our debate here called the destruction of institutions, empty stories, nonsense, etc. Mr. Stanimirovic, don't throw it away, come out here, and say the shame you said back then, on that television, and I just have to tell you to buy some good fat against hematomas, because if you get as high as we'll be after the next election in this House, you'll be wise from your own pinching.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8760	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, there is only one reason why the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, Mr. Milan Markovic, is missing here. If you heard this amendment, I'm sure you'd accept it on behalf of the government. Namely, this is one of the four amendments that are completely identical in the proposal, only they refer to different members. I don't think it's good, it's not acceptable, it's incorrect that a representative of the government is not present at this session, because if he were present, we would certainly save at least 15, 20 minutes, just by saying at the beginning that he accepts the amendment. Still, I have to tell you what's going on. If he's around, tell him to come. The sooner he comes and accepts, the more I interrupt the conversation, the more I have no reason to. We talked today about the work of the Law concerning the vote of mistrust and all the details that are related to it, and then the work that speaks of voting the government's confidence. So, all in all, it's gross in this law that the government should act when its mandate ends; it obviously has a hunch that it will end its mandate quickly, so that it is better prepared for such a thing. At that time, we warned that the constitution was more precise when considering a proposal for a no-confidence vote to the government, when considering the government's proposal for a vote of confidence, and now it's a mistrust of the minister, so it's a completely identical story. See what the Constitution says - the Prime Minister can propose a resolution to the National Assembly of a single member of the Government. That's what the government left in its bill. Then, Article 133. The Constitution says, see how specific and clear - the National Assembly is also considering the motion to resolve a member of the government at the first next session. It's very simple, brief and clear, and it's also considering voices. The government translated it the following way -- a motion to vote for mistrust is beginning to be considered within the same period as a proposal for a no-confidence vote to the government. What's the excess again? It's too high again -- it's starting to look into it. So the next thing you know, maybe I'll take a break, so maybe he'll keep considering it, so there'll be another part of the discussion, etc. We've talked about this a lot today, and I really have no intention of repeating it, especially if the minister isn't here. Please, Mr. President, call him or let us know by phone, so we can cut the story short. If he accepted all those amendments today, which are similar, I don't see any reason not to accept this one. So the formulation should read - the motion to vote for mistrust is discussed within the same period as the motion to vote for mistrust to the government. Nothing weird, nothing hurts, nothing costs, and so specific and clear. Please, Mr. President, let me hear what the Government, or the Government's representative, is thinking of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8762	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8763	I think this amendment of my colleague Misa Petronivic is quite logical to continue to understand the essence of the Constitution and, regarding this law, aims to comply with the provisions of the law with what is in the Constitution. I purposely use the word "captures" because we are witnesses, unfortunately, that the government interprets the Constitution in its own way, since the majority of parliament that makes the government experience the Constitution as its own child and interprets it as fit, and it is undeniable that at least five-six MPs voted in favour of this most important legal act of the state of Serbia, which is called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and also has the right to say something about the constitution. counterpart Petronijevic made very clear the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what is in the amendment he proposed. You can see that these formulations differ, and today and through some other amendments, we have tried to point out the importance of the Constitution in relation to the law. I must honestly say that we are not surprised that the government is applying the Constitution as it applies it, selectively, which the law writes as it writes, in a way that suits it, because it is an example of local self-government, perhaps the best example of how this law is experienced and applied, as well as the Constitution. It is a pity that Mr Markovic is not there, because he could give us a simple answer to the question whether, in general, the Law on Local Self-Government in Serbia applies and whether the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also applies to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it introduces a forced administration, respects the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, and when it forms a provisional body and appoints its composition against the Constitution, then, of course, violates the Constitution. We need to know, if that's the government's intention -- to break the Constitution, then it's okay, then this text of amendments and addition of the law is a perfectly logical sequel. He's breaking the Constitution, interpreting him as he pleases. Or the government may have taken on the traits of some local self-government, but ours must be acknowledged, people are skilled, so they found different methods of starting a session. It's this formulation -- it's starting to consider, it's starting to discuss. In some units of local self-government, in the past few years, one custom has been detached. When the congregation majority problem arises, when the situation is problematic, the president of local self-government comes out. Namely, since he has a quorum for opening the session, he realizes that the quorum exists, that the session is open, and then comes out. He says you'll be notified of the continuation of the session later. Of course, follow-up then goes, political contracts, bargaining, blackmail, shopping, etc., or intervention with the minister to do something other than local self-government. We SPS MPs found it quite logical that the provisions of the Constitution were applied in the Law and that resignations were discussed immediately at the first next session. There's no reason for any delay, no special interpretation. We think it's a good thing that Mr. Minister isn't here, because if he were here, he would surely react and accept this amendment, he showed the intensity to apply the Constitution to the provisions of this law. It seems to me that we, MPs of the SPS, and Mr. Misa Petronijevic have presented a series of good reasons for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8764	This amendment was reported by Nada Kolundžija, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8765	Thank you. The Democratic Party will propose to the minister to accept this amendment or, unless there is a chance, in the voting day, it will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8766	Is there any need for you to report to this amendment? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8767	Mr. Dulic, of course the amendment was better written than what the government wrote in its bill. It is not disputed that we will vote for it, however, but the public needs to understand what the proposing's intentions were when he could suggest something like this -- "he'll start to consider it". A clear constitutional standard that says: consider and vote; with them it will begin, but well, that will be corrected. I guess that won't be a bigger problem. In our history of the multi-party system in Serbia, we have repeatedly had a situation to apply the Constitution's provisions on the resolution of members of the government. The first time was applied by Slobodan Milosevic with those two ministers caught in crime, Vlajko and Mihajlovic. The second time was the provision applied in the case of Vuk Obradovic. That's when Djindjic suggested, he only beat us to two days. We wanted to submit a motion to vote for mistrust, however, he had already announced a resolution Sunday, so we raised our hands since we saw the job done. What is characteristic of all these members who regulate the status of the government, who regulate the start and termination of the government's mandate, regardless of what form it is - the vote of mistrust when the government raises the question of their trust, so it does not get the necessary majority, when it comes to the resignation of the government or government member? The common feature is urgency. So it must be made clear that the situation has taken place. So, if a motion for a vote of no confidence is submitted, the Constitution has prescribed within what time limit it is necessary to do so. I think there's a five-day deadline. If it is a situation where the government raises the question of its trust to act on the support of the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly for Policy it leads, or, to be more precise, when the government wants to discipline MPs, then asks the question of its trust, to provide 126 votes and thus draw attention to the disciplined MPs of the ruling parties to break up with the excursions, but to unconditionally support the government, in every place and at every step. It's the third time they get sick of everything, they resign. We were just talking about a seven-day period. I think it is much more correct to follow the logic of these previous members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that this should be a five-day deadline. Is this situation possible in this government, that Vojislav Kostunica submits a motion to resolve a minister? There are probably 7, 8, maybe ten ministers in this government who are not according to his criteria. I think there's Dinkic, and Djelic, and Sutanovac. These are, above all, those ministers who do not even treat Vojislav Kostunica as Prime Minister. They have their President of the Republic, they have their faction in the DS, and they are run by them in everyday business. At the government's meetings, Thursday at 1:00, probably, who raises his arms, who raises his legs, goes through some sort of order, so the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8768	Please, Mr. Krasic, take care of the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8769	Mr. Albianic, you are not informed and that does not mean that I should share that fate with you. I'm very well informed, I know that in this government only they don't fight when it's a cabinet session, and now you're making me share your opinion that they're there in love, harmony and on the same political path. No, Mr. Albianic. They fight, they hate each other, they can't see each other. What will be the government's position on a matter no longer depends on ministers or professional services, but depends on the boss. If you had a chance two days ago to hear the statement of Minister Jeremic, those two sentences, I don't think anyone could understand what he was going to say, and I'm sure Kostunica pulled his hair when he heard what that man said. Now I'm telling you about the real situation in our government and what a possibility it is to apply this provision of the law under certain conditions. I find it absolutely impossible for Vojislav Kostunica to submit a proposal to the National Assembly to resolve, let's say, Gilas, as I think the situation is completely incomprehensible for Kostunica to drop under the pressures of other ministers who are asking him to submit a proposal to resolve Velja Ilic. You know for yourself that you have ministers in the government of Vojislav Kostunica who say - the Velja Ilic, and his statements, so on, prosacluk etc. They describe him in much worse and rougher words than anyone in the opposition. Is that what Vojislav Kostunica can apply? She can't even think about it. What happens if we get into that situation so that he can get the strength to tell himself first enough, so he can figure it out, so the counselors can teach him, make a political assessment, by the system -- I put my finger on the forehead, so I think? Anything is possible, people, if he doesn't get past these candidates for ambassadors, because Tadic stubbornly says -- whatever it is, it's an important place, an important location, there has to be an ambassador from the DS or one of the drunk journalists. That's our situation. It's not a problem with this page of 80 and some MPs, so I guess, neither with the SPS, we're going to support that request by Vojislav Kostunica to resolve some minister, but the problem comes in the majority, with these small satellites supporting the majority, and here they're acting, like, something Chad is criticising, although he's been gone for 10 days in the Assembly, I don't know what's wrong with him. I am merely indicating what is possible and how it is possible to carry out the abuse of this provision and to try to convince, first of all, of the DSS, which I do today persistently, to understand why Milan Markovic wrote this stupidly. You see, he wrote in all these places where the status, start and end of the government's mandate is regulated – 'the proposal is beginning to be considered'. It's considered as a long-term patient state. The constitution says it's also considering voices. Now I must commend you, because we in the Rules of Procedure have a much better provision, because it is said, when it comes to these issues, therefore, the status of the Government, that immediately after the debate is over, the chair determines the day for the vote, and that day when the job is finished. You see, the Rules of Procedure went to meet the Constitution and regulated the situation, but Milan Markovic is bringing us back. He says that within the deadline prescribed by the Constitution for mistrust of the government, which is five days, we should start to discuss whether we should put it on the agenda or not to carry out the procedure. So we caught them in the act of what they're up to. They're preparing Serbia without the government. They're preparing Serbia with the Kobajagi Government. It's theoretically possible to get into this situation as early as December 10th. It is theoretically possible, according to Boris Tadic, that there will be no Dulic, the 9th election. You know that system, the grandmother combs and the village burns. Everything is possible with us, and it's all democracy, but it's so purgatory. Those who make the coup, they don't see the state, they don't see the institutions, they don't see the authentic interests of citizens from a certain territory. That's what I'm trying to explain. I know that even the viewers are bored that I'm always saying the same thing, so I'm changing a little bit to convince those citizens of ours to see what a natural disaster has hit us since October 5th. There are no institutions. In this country, only the giro-account works. Why? Just as much as it takes to pay for something to keep the person who receives quiet, not to jump, the other thing doesn't work. We have been run by Tomica Milosavljevic for seven years, in all possible fluid variants of the democratic bloc and government. Take other areas. Let me remind you that in 2003, a lady from the DS was a member of the government, proposing amendments to the law, or a new law on PIO, all epochal, points, harmonisation, etc. And -- there was chaos. Do pensions monitor the cost of life or raise prices to a little bit? They're not following anything. I don't know how you start with that democracy of yours, maybe five years from now there won't even be a pension. Let people know. Five years from now, there won't be a pension. Inform people -- in three years you will pay 10 euros in electricity, in time, that people understand who you are, who you are, whose interests you represent both here and in the government and abroad. I know how you work abroad, because that's where you go for some interviews, so you ask, would you be kind, what should we represent? So you're going abroad for your opinion. Here comes Hans Holtius today, and tomorrow, Carla del Ponte, all your friends, your partners will come. Let us remember in 2000, it is said, Kosovo and Metohija are not a problem, it is resolved as soon as the DOS comes to power. Why? We're going with our partners from abroad, big forces, to work it out. Do not lie down, after three months, and Boris Tadic could not as a minister leave and hold a DS meeting on Kosovo and Metohija territory. These are your friends, your partners. Someone will say that what I'm saying has nothing to do with this provision, but it has to do with it. Your policy has to do with every norm of every law that you propose to change, because you want every norm to install chaos, so that it can be interpreted one way or the other, that B92 turns one way or the other, that their forum, with two computers, starts to create public opinion. Of course it's my mission to narrow it down, convince the citizens, and I know I'm sick of some people. I have to keep convincing them, that they know that I'm much less a pity than you are, because you are insurmountable damage to institutions, to the state, to everyone. Orient yourself, people, well, you see, we have leaders who don't see the hole they've fallen into. As far as I'm concerned, the situation is quite clear. I don't buy any product that's advertised on B92. Why? Because then I'd be helping that anti-Serb TV. I wish two million citizens of the Republic of Serbia would listen to me. All those who advertise there are bad products for the Krasic family, bad ones. How am I supposed to drink that beer that's advertised on B92 and finance Veran Matic and the policy he's conducting?- I'm sorry. I won't allow it at all. Here, support me, citizens of Serbia, to see how much easier it will be for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8770	Is there anyone else reporting on the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed an amendment to article 10 on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group. Article 10 refers to a member of the 23rd basic law, and the government's proposal states that the minister can resign as directed by the Prime Minister, which is forwarded by the Prime Minister to the National Assembly. I suggested that instead of the word "send," the word "delivers." So the minister can resign, which he delivers to the Prime Minister, and this one to the National Assembly president. The government said it did not accept this amendment, as it stands here -- the amendment is not accepted because the word "adds", legally-technically, is more adequate to express the essence of the action that the president of the National Assembly is informed that a member of the government has resigned. I will now, dear colleagues, try to convince you that the Government's argument is not well and that the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS Group should certainly be accepted. Why? Because this, as well as all our amendments, is the result of the Empirical conclusions, what we have concluded through our very serious political work, through all objections, through all the failures and all the bad legal projects adopted in this House. The latest that is happening, and it is related to the Belgrade City Assembly, is one of the key reasons why it is not the same if it is said something is being directed and something is being delivered. At its session, the Committee on Local Self-Government of the Serbian Parliament made one decision obliging Milan Markovic, State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government, "against local self-government", according to Mr Tomislav Nikolic. What I'm about to say is proof that it's a good finding, and I'll talk about Milan Markovic's irresponsibility when he's here. I hope they do. He quickly forgot that not long ago he was a national MP, he left the hall and often warned ministers, drew attention to Parliament that the debate could not be conducted on the bill unless there was a minister who was sent by the government to do so on behalf of the government. He quickly forgot that he had stopped being an MP the night he voted for himself to become a minister, and he was a MP, or in those few seconds he was neither an MP nor a minister, but enough to vote for himself and thus enable himself to act as a minister and act as he treated the National Assembly. So, according to the Committee's decision of the Assembly Committee on Local Self-Government, Milan Markovic was to, in accordance with Article 111. The Law on Local Self-Government, which reads - if it finds that an individual act of the Authority, or the Service of the Unit of Local Self-Government, against which no protection in the administrative dispute is provided, is not in accordance with the Law or other regulation, or by decision or other general act of the unit of local self-government, the Ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government, or the competent authority of territorial autonomy, will propose to the Assembly of the Unit of Local Self-Government that such an act be abolished or annulled. So, the assembly board has decided to refer to Minister Markovic, as he stands here, the conclusion of this committee. Minister Markovic acted here yesterday as if he had heard of it for the first time. So, we didn't "send" him that act to the assembly board, and that's the difference between "routing" and "delivery." Because if we had delivered this act to Milan Markovic, then surely, I am convinced, we have so far had his stance on the illegal decision of the Belgrade City Assembly. I will remind the public, above all, that the Belgrade City Assembly was held on October 8th, in which the president of the assembly, deputy president of the assembly, acting mayor and deputy official of office, was illegally elected. This really needs to be remembered, these pearls that have been happening these days. Since 9 October, we from the SRS have been trying to convince the authorities in the Republic of Serbia to react, to stop this lawlessness in the Belgrade City Assembly. Instead of really responding to the provisions of this law, support is given to this law by the president of this parliament, who, once again I remind him, was obliged to call elections for Belgrade Mayor until last Friday, as required by Article 42's provision. Law on local self-government. Just because we have such experience, we have proposed this amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Government, because we know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the power in Serbia. We wanted again, extremely well-intentioned, to help and to make it impossible for someone to tell us tomorrow that something had been delivered to him or was not delivered. We also have an example from the last assembly, and I will remind you of that, of course. Mr. Zoran Krasic mentioned Tomica Milosavljevic here. That's the gentleman who's been the minister of resignation for almost seven years, but he's always the minister. I don't know if he's resigned or not right now, and if he hasn't, then here it is, just a few months away from being left behind. You remember, I'm sure, and you, Mr. Albianic, of course. Then you were some guy in party G17 plus, and today you're not. We understand that by your behavior. I remember you, if I said Mladjan Dinkic was a thief, you were jumping to fight. Then you were convinced it wasn't true. Today you're obviously convinced it's true, so when I say so, you don't react at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8772	Please, Mrs. Radeta, no insinuations, and as a character, I'm the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8773	So, I remind you of the period before the end of last term, when the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise, members of the G17 Plus party, resigned, failed to resign. Those resignations were passed, they weren't forwarded. What's going on? It happened that we had received information, of course in writing, that the G17 Plus Ministers, the G17 Plus Party, had passed their resignation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so the Prime Minister forwarded it to the then President of Parliament, Mr Predrag Markovic. When it was to be decided at Parliament's session, we met by Mr Predrag Markovic that these resignations were not delivered to him – so they were forwarded, they were not delivered. The road between pass and deliver, ladies and gentlemen, often looks very long and with many curves, where something can be lost. We of the SRS then, as the other day, remember, when we came here to the documents that you began to share with the MPs before it was taken into the office, we also came to those resignations of the G17 Plus government members. Showing these resignations here, we convinced Mr. Predrag Markovic to admit that he did get those resignations, but yes, in fact, those resignations were not written in the form that they were to be written. It never stood anywhere in which form to write a resignation. It's enough for someone to say I'm resigning. If he wants to say why, he says, and if he won't say, he doesn't have to say a thing. The whole of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, was then aware that it was only one game party G17 plus. I remind you, too, that at that time they were, I think, deputy ministers, and today the State Secretary, that's what they were called. They also resigned for two days, and the newspaper wrote about how they resigned, and on the third day a Mr. from the Administration of Revenue, Mr. Vlad Ilic of Pozharjevac, appeared at the post of deputy minister as if nothing had happened, as if there had been no resignations. Of course, the famous Tomica Milosavljevic never stopped performing that function. At that time, members of the G17 Plus party resigned and said it was because Serbia is not working enough with The Hague tribunal and that General Ratko Mladic was not handed over to The Hague. Now I would like someone from the government to tell us, in fact, not someone, but, in particular, the Prime Minister, and, behold, let this be a parliamentary issue to Vojislav Kostunica – did the G17 now force him to call those shameful awards for the heads of Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Stojan Zupljanin and Goran Hadzic? I asked him to answer the question and the minister of justice, but he didn't answer. Now, indeed, I expect the Prime Minister to answer us, first of all, to the question of whose money he will possibly pay the prize and who he asked to spend two and a half million euros on such a disgrace. It should respond to Serbian citizens how many kindergartens could be done by two and a half million euros, how many new jobs could be made possible, how many pensions could be increased, how much could be done in Serbia. Of course, I am convinced, we in the SRS are convinced that there will be no payment of the prize, for one simple reason, which is all that was ready in Serbia to sell the soul, long ago did so. You have sold yourself, gentlemen, to the Americans, and to Soros, to the Shiptars, who has paid more, and no more sold souls in Serbia, but this government's intention must be explained to the MPs, I would especially like it to be told by the resolution minister from which he takes two and a half million euros out of his pocket. As far as I know, and I know, we didn't have a budget rebalance, as far as I know, and I know, in the budget that we adopted, there are no two-and-a-half million euros planned for the sale of Serbian heads. Therefore, I expect the Prime Minister to answer these questions, and the reason that I mention all of this is, precisely, this amendment and this word "advises", which should be replaced by "delivered", because I was talking about the reference and the lack of timely resignation of members of G17 plus. I ask that even now, perhaps, Vojislav Kostunica has not delivered some resignations, given that the conditions have not changed since they resigned, because, unfortunately for them, the Serbian citizens, neither Mladic nor Karadzic will be in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8774	Is anyone else answering for this amendment by the People's Parliament of the Faith Radeta? (No) National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is received by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. You're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8775	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, I really didn't want to adopt this pay phone for you; if you're afraid for her, don't worry. I knew the minister would come when I came out to talk, it was waiting for him not to listen to Veronica Radetta, but he didn't, I guess he didn't. Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23, which reads: "The Minister can resign, which he sends to the Prime Minister and then to the President of the National Assembly. The National Assembly at the first next session, without debate, takes note of the minister's resignation and thus terminates his mandate. The minister can explain his resignation in the National Assembly. ''My amendment reads that Section 3 is deleted, for a simple reason, which, as expected, brings Article 23 to an unequal position, in this assembly, MPs and ministers. It is impossible, at least in the National Assembly, for the minister to be privileged in relation to the MPs and that he can explain his resignation without any MP being able to respond or give his opinion. First of all, Mr. Minister, I'd like to point out one spelling mistake. It's written in Section 2. It's given to knowledge. I'd rather replace it with the word "consistent," because it's in Article 128 right now. The constitution says - a member of the government's mandate ends before the time he was chosen to establish his resignation. So it doesn't say - by receiving knowledge or anything else, so I'd like to ask you to put this termologically into shape and even with the Constitution. I don't think it's a big remark and you'll be able to accept it, because it's also in your interest that this law looks like something. However, the essence of my amendment is not in this. The point is, exactly, what I told you, which is that in this assembly, at least, we need to level the status of MPs and the status of ministers, especially when we need to decide something. I'd say it again, this time, Article 125. The constitution, which is prescribed, in the third position -- the minister for his work and for the situation in the area of the ministry's work, corresponds to the Prime Minister, the Government and the National Assembly. If we apply this Article 125, we will have a situation, in accordance with Article 123, that the minister who wishes to resign from the government is in a position to be absolutely amnested by the National Assembly for everything he has done in the previous period, because, simply, the moment he resigns, the National Assembly can no longer discuss his work. I think it is inadmissible and it is not in the interests of the citizens or the National Assembly, and I suppose it is not in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia either. For indeed, the National Assembly which, according to Article 133. The constitution, paragraph 4, also discusses the motion to resolve a member of the government at the first next session, will not be able to decide, or will not be able to vote on the government's proposal if none of the MPs can say anything. I volunteered for this when my colleague, the previous one, spoke for this same position, only for the Prime Minister. Really, what I'm trying to say is that it's a simple analogy. It's impossible for someone to take us out here, tell us whatever they want, without a limit of time, without us as MPs being able to answer anything, but simply to stop, or to raise our hands for that resignation. You will agree, Mr. Markovic, that something is wrong with these relations and that these relations are slightly disturbed in favour of members of the government and to the harm of the MPs. In short, I will answer what the government's argument is and why this amendment of mine is not accepted. It's said, "Amendment is not accepted. The legal solution allows the minister who resigned to meet the National Assembly with the reasons that led him to resign." We fully agree with that, and we think it is quite okay to give the right to the minister who resigns to explain his reasons, because, believe me, like all Serbian citizens, so we MPs know that the resignation of the minister is not tolerated without any big and difficult reason. It would be very interesting for the citizens of this Serbia to hear the resignation, but we too have the right to, as MPs, say what we think about it. That's where I wrote down one point of view. It seems to me that Minister Markovic, while being an MP, was one of the stronger fighters for the dignity of this assembly and for the rights of MPs. It seems to me that by going to the government, he absolutely threw his fight under his feet and denied it, especially by standing behind such a member of the law. I wouldn't keep you longer, so I'd give my colleagues time to say something about this. Indeed, Mr. Minister, I ask you, when you find it appropriate, to respond to what we, as representatives of the SPS and the Parliament Club, have pointed out to these irregularities and irregularities. These remarks are not malicious, they are indeed intended only to fix the proposed legislative solution and to enable MPs in the Serbian Parliament to feel equal with ministers, if they cannot feel that way in the functioning of the entire state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8776	MP Zarko Obradovic has the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8777	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this amendment to my colleague, Zeljko Vasiljevic, is the only logical, authentic interpretation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In my opinion, it is another member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, I'll mention Article 133. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "A member of the government may resign to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister delivers the resignation of a member of the government to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly finds its resignation at the next session. The member of the Government who resigned shall cease his term of office on the day of the resignation. '"So, the urgency of the legislator is that there is no debate about the resignation. The minister has the opportunity, and how, to tell the Prime Minister with whom he is in communication, telephone, when the government meetings are scheduled, or when they hold phone sessions or directly, why he resigns. The minister has the possibility to announce to the public Serbia the reasons for resigning through the media. Some ministers, you know, run TV teams with them, record every step of the way. Some ministers go from show to show, just him and the journalist, and they say what they think, and that's the only thing that's absolutely true. The other can't say anything. If the legislator's intensities were that he could resign and resign, then there is no possibility that the minister would explain his resignation. There is a colleague Vasiljevic quite right. That attitude should be erased. Why could the minister explain his resignation? Worried about the state of the country? Please don't. Something else, third, of course they'll always find a reason to explain their resignation, and the real motives we'll only find out after a while. The MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia need to be brought into the situation of an equal entity. The government was elected by the National Assembly. I guess if the minister can say the reasons why he resigns, MPs can say what they think of the resignation. For example, we have Mr. Markovic, perhaps one day he will resign. Why? Because of the state of local self-government. We have 10 units of local self-government where forced administration is introduced, 900,000 people for months, now will be a year, cannot get the opportunity to use his constitutional right, to use his right to local self-government, to use his electoral right, to use his right of choice and to say who he wants in local self-government. The illegal situation in Belgrade, in particular, is another million and a half. So, about 2.4 million people can't choose who they want. When we ask Mr. Markovic why so many forced administrations, he explains it by the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. When we ask -- why are they not representatives of political parties represented in local self-government, he settles his shoulders and says -- you know, it's an earlier practice. I guess we should end up with earlier practice, if earlier practice was bad, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that when a forced administration is introduced, a forced body must be created a natural party structure of the municipality's assembly. The government introduces a party's emergency body that was not represented in parliament in local self-government. Then the government sets itself up as someone who manages local self-government. The right to local self-government is an authentic right and cannot be restricted by the government. Then the minister says I'm resigning for those and those reasons. Of course, he'll state his reasons, but it would be our turn to say what we think about it. Excuse me, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of local self-government is disastrous and no one can convince us that the interpretation of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution is a right interpretation of the delay in calling elections in 11 units of local self-government, because that constitutional law refers to the calling of elections in all units of local self-government. Mr. Minister, you weren't here, so I didn't have time to ask you personally, but the explanation of this amendment is not a reason to ask you if the law on local self-government in Serbia is being applied. Yesterday we were able to hear on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs some intelligent explanations from the representatives of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who think that the law, absolutely, is not applicable, can be applied rather than must. That in translation means - when it suits me, I apply it, when it doesn't suit me, it's a senior constitutional law, and local self-government at that time has to work. It would be good if the minister in charge of the state administration and local self-government told us whether the Law on Local Self-Government is being respected, or whether it is being implemented, since we see that it is not being respected. To give the Minister the opportunity to explain his resignation, not to allow MPs of the National Assembly to say something about it, is not logical. You'll see, when the minister comes out to explain why an emergency administration is being instituted, that my and his reasoning differs diametrically. I claim 900,000 people outside Belgrade and 1.5 million in Belgrade must have the right to choose who they want. As long as this law exists, it must be applied. Let the government give us a new law on local self-government that will not provide for the president of the municipality as an organ of the municipality. Then we'll have another situation and then the legislator can appeal to the constitutional law provision and to the new law proposal, so we don't need the mayor's election. I understand that, but this is how it says that the law is respected, and we don't want to apply it, it's not normal. MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must have the opportunity to say something about the work of ministers and government. I am using the opportunity that Mr. Markovic is here, but there is almost no minister who could not be spoken to in this way, because we have some issues important to the state of the diametrically opposite attitudes and there is no reason for the government, or a member of the government, to explain to himself what he meant when he wanted to resign, and that the Assembly is gone and that he just realized it. Of course, the media will publish only what the minister says, the rest doesn't matter. It happens every day. In order not to do so, Mr Vasiljevic, respecting the provisions of the Constitution, submitted an amendment. The legislator does not foresee the possibility of a member of the government saying anything about his resignation, resigned - submitted, and then he will give his interpretation to the public, we MPs - our own, and we will see what it will look like. And if he came here to give us his resignation interpretation, and the National Assembly couldn't talk about it, that doesn't make sense. That is why MP Vasiljevic and our parliamentary group, the SPS, asked for the law's position to be deleted, that the minister could not explain the resignation, just as counterpart Bojan Milovanovic explained the amendment to the prime minister. One part of the executive government can't have an advantage over the law, it can't at least be in this home, and outside of this home, we already know, it's a practice. They're obviously used to that practice, so they think it should be passed on here. We should defend the dignity of this home, but, above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, as seen in the provisions of the Constitution that I have interpreted, did not foresee the possibility of a member of the government explaining his resignation. I think that's the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8778	Minister Markovic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8779	Sir, the distinguished predecessor, Zarko Obradovic, here, speaking of the amendment, seemed to me, a little talk about the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and to me, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, mentioned several details, so I feel the need to tell Mr. Obradovic how things are. So the issue of disbanding local self-government units has nothing to do with the minister and the ministry's work. The units of local self-government shall be dissolved once the prescribed conditions have been met. It cannot be the minister's fault that in Zrenjanin, Smederev, Užica, Babusnica, Valjev, Leskovac, Bogatic, Kuli, Veliko Gradište and Smederjevska Palanci units of local self-government did not meet. It has nothing to do with who the minister is. You can be the minister, it doesn't matter. All these units of local self-government were disbanded while the minister was my predecessor, today the Minister of Education, Mr. Lonchar, except for the last two. This is the minister whom you, among other things, chose by your votes, and I was the opposition, you were the government, you had no objections. When those temporary organs were assembled, Mr. Obradovic, you had no objection to which you are now pointing, which is party representation. This was the case in Zrenjanin, in November 2006, in Smederevo - in November 2006, in Užica, Babusnica, Valjevo, in Leskovac - in April 2007. Then you didn't, Mr. Bradovich, say, we have a constitution, let it be so, but you agreed, because you were part of the ruling coalition, so it suits you. The same was true in Bogatic, also in April 2007, as in The Tower. I'll tell you what, when these last two units of local self-government were disbanded, I asked you a question of direct application of the provisions of the Constitution that speak of proportionate representation. The position of the Legislative Secretariat is that this provision of the Constitution cannot have direct application, i.e. to apply the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government relating to the disbanding of units of local self-government. When you look at, indeed, it's the correct interpretation, according to that interpretation, the provisional organs are composed as well by the previous government that you supported; we did nothing different than the previous government did, nothing different. Except now that the Socialists are not part of the ruling coalition, there's a difference. There's something else I want to tell you, you're asking when the election will be. On February 23rd 2003, elections in the municipality of Alibunar were held and four years passed, de facto, the mandate expired. However, the previous minister, Mr Loncar, was very correct in interpreting the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and interpreting Article 3. The constitutional law as I interpret it today and remain fully consistent with what Mr. Loncar said then, which is that Article 3. Constitutional law laid down deadlines for new elections. When Mr. Lonchar said that, the minister you voted for, you didn't mind. Now, when I say the same thing, for the sake of legal certainty, and I believe it intimately, I also stick to the same attitude, you who are now the opposition, tell me – Minister, when there will be elections, knowing, knowing, not to call the election ministers. The vote is under the authority of another state authority. In your presentation, it bothered me that in some way you are trying to impute responsibility for something that I am not responsible for, and I cannot be responsible for, because in these elements, the conduct of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is equivalent to that of the previous Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, which had your support and praise for your work. As for the amendment, I don't accept the amendment. I call upon the Members of the People to consider the previous amendment, the amendment of Ms. Verice Radete, to reflect. I believe that the argument that Mrs Radeta made is correct and I think that in the day of the vote, given that, of course, it is necessary to vote on the amendment, that amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8780	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8781	I must tell you, Mr. Minister, that this address to you should be a compliment, because you are one of the few ministers who sits here and answers the questions of the MPs. There's nothing personal here. Yesterday I asked Mr. Dulic who broke the constitution, or Mr. Dulic, or the government. Each of us is doing his job and is committed to the electoral body that supported his party's political programme to explain certain views. Yesterday I asked Mr. Dulic - who broke the Constitution, the government or him. We need to know in this Serbia who violates the Constitution, because when a temporary administration is introduced, then the Law on Local Self-Government is respected. The government says, we are introducing a forced administration under the Law on Local Self-Government, a member and that, and the Law, in another member, says - the president of the National Assembly is obliged to call elections for local self-government units three months afterwards. For a little million reasons. I do not want to mention, and it is not the reason for the introduction of temporary self-government in certain municipalities just conflict and inability to function and so on, but also the assembly's initiative to replace the president of the municipality. This initiative is debacled. What's the ruling coalition doing? Since they can't handle the issue in the election, because, as a rule, they're all against that man, then they form an organ of five people, so these people replace the ruling coalition at the local level and again prevents local self-government from working. Yesterday, I asked Mr. Dulic who respected the constitution, whether he or the government, because if he respects it, he will not call the elections, calling on the constitutional law and deadlines of December 31st, all right. Then she would rule, Mr. Markovic, the authorities of the local self-government unit in which she introduces a temporary administration to emulate the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Let the Secretariat's opinion deliver it to us, officially, so we can say something about him. That's what-- how I like it, so I'm going to give an interpretation. The constitution is very explicit. There's nothing to interpret. When a temporary administration is introduced, the composition of the provisional body shall correspond to the proportion of the party composition of the assembly. Mr. Markovic, you may not be familiar with this, and you do not have to know everything that happened, and in the end, your party left Parliament at the time, so you may not know what was going on here, but you should know that in all those units that you mentioned, and in Zrenjanin, Smederev, Užica, Babushnica, Valjeva, Leskovac, Bogatic, Veliko Gradište and Smederjevska Palanci, as well as Kula, until the formation of a new government, the Socialists were representatives of local self-government. Billy, Mr. Markovic, would you? Then it's logical to be represented in a temporary organ. This may have something to do with the congregation's majority or the fact that we supported the government, not necessarily. The fact is, we were in local self-government. I'm asking you, where do you find a basis in this, and I mentioned to my colleagues, G17, that the G17 members belonging to the government are not in Big Gradiška in the provisional organ? Tell me, where do you find this legal basis? Where is the justification that the party that was not represented in the local parliament, had no representative, had representatives in the provisional body? Tell me, Mr. Obradich, that's the law and that law, and I'll go out and say, okay, I'll take it. You won't tell me, because that's not there. That's the point. The minister will always find a reason to explain his resignation as it suits him, and the point is that the National Assembly must also tell its court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8782	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8783	I can also ask you, Mr. Obradovic, how is it possible that in the municipality of Zrenjanin, where the DS won the elections, where is the president of the DS municipality, no member of the DS in the temporary body? That's the point. I want to tell you something else, you're trying to mix two things up here. The constitutional law, in its 3rd member, has determined when elections will be held in the Republic of Serbia, both local and regional, and presidential. In that sense, as constitutional law, he is normally older than the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, on local elections, and on other laws. It's, for the gentleman who throws me a legal theory. Technically, an act adopted under a more difficult procedure has a higher legal force, a higher legal act than an act adopted under a lighter procedure. Don't make such a banal thing we have to comment on here. Thus, the Constitutional Law found that the elections would be called by the end of 2007, or 60 days after the adoption of the law, so these laws are listed, that we do not repeat them for a hundred times. The constitutional law also found that what was not set out in this Constitutional Law would be applied logically to the positive regulations in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to calling the elections at the local and applying the Law on Local Self-Government, it is obvious that the provisions of the Constitutional Law derivate the provisions relating to election deadlines, but also, the constitutional law has left all those provisions governing other things, not to go into it now, there are a lot of things. So that's the point. Very clearly, Article 3 and, I think, Article 12. Constitutional law. I'm sorry we're having a dispute about this right now, and you didn't raise that question, I'm saying again, when it comes to the Alibunar. It's politics. I can't imagine the situation to discuss the elections against this provision of the Constitutional Law, and I can't imagine, in particular, that the constitutional author, in the end, and the constitutionalist, so we all, citizens, had in mind the idea that, let's say, today we are holding elections for the mayor of the Alibunar, and in two months to hold those same elections again, because there is no mayor, or president of the municipality directly elected, but executive authorities come from the congregation's majority. So it's so obvious to me that it's unclear how this topic has now come to the heart of our political life in the congregation. It is definitely my final position, both personal and political, on the provisions of the Constitutional Law and on the need to discuss elections in local self-government units. Of course, like you here, I regret that so much time goes by in those units of local self-government, but that's it. The constitutional law is clear. The constitution and the laws must be respected and we will do and live, like any other civilized society.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8784	There's more to the Rules of Procedure. The first is MP Riza Halimi, then Zarko Obradovic, Tomislav Nikolic and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8785	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I'm going to re-launch the question of using minority language in this House. In the morning, MP Lasslo Varga spoke on this subject. Today's "Blic" also dealt with this problem with a lot of inaccuracies, and since they come from the representatives of this assembly, I have to run it this way. It is said that Tamara Stojcevic, general secretary of the Serbian Parliament, has said that so far none of the MPs has requested simultaneous translation in this parliament, except for representatives of the Hungarian people. Also, Roma party representatives Rajko Djuric and Srdjan Sajn asked that their documents be translated into Roma, while Albanian representatives from the Party for Democratic Action Riza Halimi did not ask for that either. Now I'm talking about this: if the Constitution is provided for, if the law is settled, if the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are arranged, why should someone now report that they want to exercise constitutional law, if that is guaranteed by the Constitution and the law. If this is true in the title of this article, that Parliament is without translation equipment, which is correct, which is why this calculation and arbitrary interpretation of this topic. I've used this phone booth two or three times to make my point. I expressed my willingness to use my mother tongue both at the pay phone and when it comes to congregation documents. Then why all this talk? It's understandable if there's no technical conditions. We'll wait for it to be settled, to regulate it, but I think it's completely unnecessary for these different interpretations that the source, however, has in this assembly. If I'm not mistaken, it seems to me that I've heard the President of the Assembly say that he is preparing to translate the documentation into Hungarian. I think, in principle, it should be said that for all minority languages, the procedure is ongoing and we have the patience to finally get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8786	Mr. Halimi, to whom did you address the question: to the President of the Assembly, to me, as chairman, to the Secretary of the Assembly? The answer will be delivered to you by the President of the Assembly. The word has been made by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then MP Tomislav Nikolic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8787	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I must tell Minister Milan Markovic that he obviously has no good knowledge of the events at the time of the opposition. Why am I saying this? Mr. Markovic should know, I mentioned this, the SPS was represented in units of local self-government, in all municipalities where forced administration was introduced during the previous government. That Mr. Markovic and you, the other colleagues, didn't think it was all honey and milk, there were also cases where members of that coalition, which we supported, were initiating a procedure for recalling the mayors who were our members. The municipality of Žabari is an example, where members of the coalition have launched an impeachment and impeachment initiative failed. What happened after that? Respecting the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, Mr. Markovic, as president of the Assembly, called the elections, new council members were elected, the assembly majority was formed, and local self-government is functioning. Did something catastrophic happen? It's not. Did something happen in our relationship with the ruling coalition? It's not. The Law on Local Self-Government is respected. Very simple. I ask why the Law on Local Self-Government is not respected, and why is it that the Minister, or Government, puts party representatives in a temporary body that, for example, is not represented locally? Besides, I don't think Mr. Markovic should be asking me questions relating to the work of his colleagues. Since he's working so well with Mr. Loncar and has supported his position on the Apache, he should also ask him why there was no DS in Zrenjanin, if he was in Parliament. Which is why, that should ask him, not me, not us, the SPS representatives, because we didn't exercise power, we weren't government, we didn't have ministries. We were someone who supported the government, not because of this and this municipality, but because of Kosovo and Metohija, because of the Constitution and other state and national objectives. If we wanted to, we could have fought over these Frogs, but we didn't have a single municipality that mattered to state and national issues and our commitment to support the government because of national and state. After all, we do not need a minister to interpret the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The same is his right, and so is my right, but come on, let the Constitutional Court be formed, so let's see what the Constitutional Court says about certain provisions. Why would the opinion of the Minister in interpreting the Constitution be more proportionate than the opinion of us MPs? There's no reason. Let the Constitutional Court say what they think. I'm just saying that there are 10 units of local self-government, 900 thousand people, plus Belgrade, with a million and 500 thousand people, who don't have the choice of their representatives. Very simple. The government can explain that with cosmic dust, and events in Iran, and possible escalation, it can explain everything, but the law has to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8788	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am waiting for the minister. I thank you, Mr. Nikolic, for waiting for the minister. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: I am waiting for the minister. You're waiting for the minister. Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The People's Messenger Amjad Migati has his word on the amendment. The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, on the amendment, has the word. No, I don't. Does anyone else report on the amendment of Zeljko Vasiljevic to article 10? (No) The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8789	I'm not waiting for the minister. I don't expect anything from him. Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, which amends Article 40 of the existing law, so that it is said "in cooperation" is deleted. Let me explain what this is about. The SPS has the view that it is not possible to enter into the law terms which cannot be defined or which are not measurable, such as, say, reputation, or co-operation, or honor. So it's impossible by law to prescribe what co-operation is, what it is, and whether someone has a reputation, whether someone has or does not have the honor, and how it is honored. So, the thing is completely principled. We have argued this before, because, above all, some laws that have defined, among other things, that, after adoption, certain personal things have happened, therefore, the appointment of different members into independent regulatory bodies, educational councils and others have always been written to be chosen from the ranks of respected professors. We should be able to measure the reputation of one man, or one professor, and it's defined by law. For that reason, I have submitted, on behalf of the SPS, this amendment and I would ask that it be accepted, please, for your support. I thank the government for accepting the amendment to Article 7. Regardless of what Mr Miletic Mihajlović explained, my dear colleague, I submitted it because I was at the meeting of the Committee on Culture at the time. So when the Socialists submit or defend one amendment, that is, explain it, it is quite still, acting as a laser, all at one point, and therefore the minister simply did not have the opportunity to reject it. Why are these changes and additions trying to establish a relationship between the president of the state and the Prime Minister with the term "co-operation"? Are they not able to provide normal collegiate communication, so it is necessary to define that by amending and supplementing the Government Act? The President of the Republic is not elected in Parliament, and the Prime Minister is elected in Parliament. The President of the Republic was elected in the direct secret elections, elected by all citizens, and there is no point in determining in this way, regardless of who the President of the Republic is, I don't care what his name is, I'm talking about the institution of the President of the State. It is impossible for the law to contain a provision requiring the President of the Republic to cooperate with someone. I hope the President of the Republic is aware of the responsibility and also of the social danger he took upon himself when he sat at the head of the state, or stopped, I apologize, I hope he didn't sit down, and it's not normal for the law to set this up. Besides, I believe that communication between these two people or, better yet, between these two institutions is based on something else. Well, they're party leaders who have a coalition agreement, is it necessary to prescribe by law that they have to co-operate? I don't understand that. We can't support it, we reject it as something that here, absolutely, is not the place. This form is unacceptable to us, because then we might prescribe other things to the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic of Obligations shall be prescribed by the Constitution, and by the act. So there is no other way to define what the President of the Republic is doing. Therefore, if they need our support, if Parliament needs to be more peaceful for them, so that they sit down, that we pass the law, that they talk, that's another thing. Say, people, let's help, it's the country. They, of course, do not normally cooperate, as we have had the opportunity to see, because, to cooperate, it could not happen that, for example, the Institute of Fruit and Vineyards in Chačka is bankrupt, the most prestigious scientific institution in the SFRY, the SRJ and this country. Nobody cares. I ask the parliamentary question of Minister Ani Pesikan – what will he do to unblock the gyro-account of the Institute of Fruit and Vineyards in Cačka, because this institute contributed to the name SFRY, the name of Serbia and the name of Cačka being known in the world, because his people invented over 100,000 different varieties of fruit, and they named names as Professor Stancevic, "Chachanska narodna", "Chacan's Best", "Chacan's Beauty"? Every Cacanka is a beauty, so he did not find it difficult to do this, because there was a work by Professor Stanisa Paunović, who was the world's greatest living Casey expert, there was a professor Gavrilović, there was a radio professor Agasanovic, there now working scientists such as Dr. Milisav Mitrovic, Svete Stamenkovic and others. How is it possible that the President of the State and the President of the Republic don't know this is happening? If we're to prescribe that they should provide a meeting, so they and Mrs. Ana Pesikan don't fail one of these scientific institutions, then I agree, but what you're proposing here simply isn't possible. As Mr. Milan Markovic returned, State Administration Resolute Minister and Local Self-Government, I was asked by the citizens of Dragachev to ask him – will the Law on Territorial Organization come to Parliament soon and what about the 10,000 Dragačevci initiative of four years ago to single out two municipalities, to make Cačak a city, etc.? Please give an answer, if it is not possible today to answer this parliamentary question, and to receive these people when you have an opportunity, because it is an important political issue for them. Let me get back to the amendment. The political system and government feature in Serbia is bicep, so double-headed. So it's neither presidential nor office. That's something in between. Although things in Serbia are now, it would turn out to be a police power, that every party that exercises power takes its own blanket and doesn't give it to anyone. Local self-government, for example, holds one party, this one who holds investments, ski resorts, half the government, that's the other party, education -- the third party, and that's a complete feudalization of relations in the government. In this way, the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens have great damage and we call on the government of the Republic of Serbia to do its duty, in accordance with the Constitution. I see that you are now relieved of everyone, because these members have passed through, mentioning the resignations of cabinet members and government, and then you breathe easier, though I understand. Imagine that the other day, for example, one minister, was angry over a certain conversation with the secretary of the other minister, in anger, resigned, and she was immediately established, where we would have been miserable without that minister, Serbia would have cried as much as by tomorrow. So I understand what you're doing here, but I don't know how much it's gonna work like that. We'd better have a bill here that defines this co-operation between ministers. Because, as we can see, Mr Markovic now directly accuses Minister Loncar and leads with him through a pay phone of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thought they were sitting there, drinking coffee that they don't normally pay, like they don't pay here, in the National Assembly, because this people here, they pay coffee when they sit and drink, and they talk nicely about issues that are of national interest. I'm taking these transcripts, what Ubod listens to those ministers there, and then he comes over here and says, "Secretary said this to the secretary," this minister told this other minister that he wouldn't happen to be waiting for him the day he got there. So, guys, what are you doing? You run the states. We expect you to talk, negotiate, perform the duties for which Serbian citizens are paying you and, of course, Serbian citizens benefit from that. This is how it turns out that we here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are peace-making bigger ministers and that they can't wait to come here to spook a minister who's, say, from another party. Mr. Loncar, for example, from the DSS, and Mr. Milan Markovic attacked him here sharply. I don't know if a man has a lawyer. I'm not his lawyer, but I could possibly say a few words about him. I can say he was a minister last time and now the minister is, like, two words, for example. I can say that. Guys, this isn't what you're expected to do. Mr. Minister, you should accept this amendment, as you have accepted these others, because it is expected of you. Of course, our intention was to fix the amendments and additions to the law. Don't deprive yourself of good service. Do you remember when you were trained there to do good services, the "Segenian variant", and you were educated and you came here and did good services, and then we got skins from behind. So, I see, that works pretty well. Here, I hope you answer two parliamentary questions, that you will accept my amendment and, behold, this will take another two minutes, so we don't have to sit here all night, because you've come up with a scam to sit down until morning. I have to tell you that math is read, it won't be possible. We will work until the amendments to this text of the amendment and the addition of the law are completed, and the next morning we will begin. I thank you for your attention and impotence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8790	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8791	This all seemed pretty cute, but I really don't want to leave anything that I didn't say. So I literally said that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, as regards the interpretation of the Constitutional Law and the education of the provisional bodies, continues the same practice as the ministry headed by Minister Zoran Loncar. I also said that I thought it was good, that this practice was good and that it was based on the Constitution and the law of this country. In that sense, all I was saying could only mean one thing, which is that Minister Loncar and I have the same access to the members of the Law on Local Self-Government and Constitutional Law of the Republic of Serbia. So there's absolutely no conflict, no conflict, and I don't understand why you tried to say it in front of a pay phone. I know you well these past seven years in Parliament, and I know that you must have understood what I was saying. I only said one thing, that the relationship of the SPS is different to Mr. Lonchar and to me for the same interpretation and the same shop. But I understand that. You supported the government at the time, you were in position, now you're the opposition, and I have no problem with that. But don't, please, try to present here to the public that in any way, I, anything, resent my predecessor for this speaker. So, I repeat, the same standards that existed during Mr. Lonchar's ministry applies now that I'm the minister. I believe that these standards were correct and at that time, I believe that they are correct and now and that there is nothing better and more correct than that, regardless of who the minister is, the laws apply in the same way. I'm sorry, really, I'd say about Dragachev. We cannot change the boundaries of the electoral units by the Law on Territorialisation, because Article 18 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says a referendum is necessary. However, there are a number of municipalities in the Republic of Serbia where a fully justified request for a change of borders is justified. This most often refers to municipalities that have large territory and where it is really difficult to achieve adequate functionality in the work of these administrations, given the size of the territory. In the draft law that we prepared at the Ministry, we specifically addressed the issue of establishing new units of local self-government and paid particular attention to the matter of the referendum. I don't know what kind of law will finally be passed in the National Assembly, in the end, what the bill will look like, given the procedure you know, but my opinion is that this referendum should be an advisory character and that, of course, the National Assembly makes a final decision through the subsequent amendments to the Law on Territorialization, because the question of territorialisation is, however, the state issue of a couple of excellencies, therefore, cannot be just a question of local self-government. In such a case, the ministry will make an effort to provide local self-government authorities with all logistics in the course of 2008, where the National Assembly finds it justified - at the end of 2008, to change the borders of those units of local self-government, in accordance with the citizens' wish. I'm saying it's only if the National Assembly finds it celery. As far as the cities are concerned, we haven't given up much of the previous idea, the idea of the previous minister. So the cities that have 100,000 inhabitants will have, they will get the statute of the city. We will join several more cities, such as Loznica, such as Zaječar, because of its geographical position, because in eastern Serbia we do not have any city. But I say the MPs will have a chance to come forward again. Since these questions are being asked, I think I should inform you in a preliminary manner how we think in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8792	So, first of all, who's answering the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Nikolic, you said - I'm delaying until the minister arrives, although it's not the usual. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8793	Don't I bother Mr. Albianic too much? This makes me proud. Are you interrupting the transmission? If you deceive us, Madam Secretary, it will be evil. You're saying there's a transmission? (Tamara Stojcevic, from the place: No. I know you don't, you wouldn't lie, people. There's no transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-24-0.u8794	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, I don't have direct information. So, we're finishing today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you for understanding, you are first in the Rules of Procedure tomorrow, and then Zarko Obradovic.
