ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3706	Mr. President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted two amendments to the amendments to the VAT Act. I'll explain one now, the other a little later, but essentially, these two amendments refer to the same area, to the same question, a question that is gathering attention these days, even though we Socialists think, a significant part of Serbia's population. It is an initiative by NGOs aimed at abolishing VAT on equipment, clothing and baby food. These NGOs have been in action for the past few days to collect 30,000 signatures, to pass a law that would abolish VAT on equipment, clothing and baby shoes. We Socialists welcome this action by NGOs. It is the Alliance of Health Workers of Vojvodina, the Association for Public Health of Serbia, the NGO "Citizenka", the NGO Media Group, the NGO "Parent Centre", "Forum Women" and the Independent Society of the Journalists of Vojvodina. This way we tell them they don't need to collect any more signatures. The SPS, independent of their initiative, is some idea that we have years ago, submitted an amendment proposing to abolish or reduce VAT. We gave the government a chance to choose for herself what was more appropriate to her. If he wants to, he can cut the VAT on equipment, clothes, and baby shoes. If it won't shut down, it can reduce VAT for clothes, equipment and baby shoes from 18% to 8%. It's those two amendments. We tell representatives of these organisations who collect signatures in Serbia, that there is no need to torture, that there is no need to lead public action. There are amendments in the Serbian Parliament and there is a legal possibility of resolving this issue. The government can, if it wants, very easily resolve the VAT issue and accept one of the two solutions offered. I must say, for us MEPs, this is a very important issue. We raised this issue in 2004, when the resolution minister was Mr Dinkic. Then we heard words similar to those spoken yesterday by one of the ministers, now the health minister, that this issue will be resolved in the next budget and that it should not simply be brought in at the moment. I must say, at that time, we believed that this question would be resolved, but, as you can see, it didn't happen. We think this is a very important question. For those who do not know, the 2002 census in Serbia showed that out of 161 municipalities in Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, which are under temporary international administration, is a negative natural increase in 155 municipalities. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, of the 161 municipalities, in 155 is a negative natural growth. In all 45 municipalities in Vojvodina, there is a negative natural growth. Of 119 in the rest of Serbia in 113 is negative, which means that only 6 municipalities with positive natural growth. I say this not by chance, for this is one small step to improve the demographic situation, that is to say, for those young couples who choose to have a child give the opportunity to keep costs as low as possible. I must say, I am very surprised by the explanation I received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think that explanation deserves to be made public to you, because it shows, in fact, that the government has no intention of doing anything about this issue, but nothing at all. You will hear an explanation on this amendment proposing that VAT be abolished. I read the argument of the Government (quote): "The amendment is not accepted, because the Annex 3 to Directive 2006112 provides for good, or services can be taxed at a lower tax rate. Taxation of transport and import of baby equipment, shoes and clothing for children aged up to 10 years would not be in line with European Union standards." This is very nice -- "would not be in line with the standards of the European Union." Now, there's a little wrinkle, are we an EU member country, so we need to follow EU directives unspeakably? Is our demographic situation such that we absolutely need to accept all EU directives, especially directives on this. I'm not bringing this up by accident. As you know, last week was an EU leaders' meeting and they essentially agreed on what the EU would look like. Please, colleagues, just a little attention. Due to the desire of a certain group of countries to reach the agreement, the agreement has come to an end, but what is interesting. The basic content of the agreement is that the EU is reformed, etc., but it is important that I also personally think about this assembly, and especially about this issue of respect for the EU directive, that our MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand what it looks like in the EU. I will only quote what our reporters did after that meeting, which is that EU decisions on this future reform apply to everyone, he says, except for the UK, which will have exceptions. It is then said that this reformed agreement is the EU and that the system enters into force in 2014, with a transitional period until 2017. Then it is said that the British and Irish have managed to fight for the right to apply the decisions adopted in those areas only if they consider them of interest. Dear gentlemen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is what it looks like in the EU. They're all for community, and everyone applies what suits him and fights for their attitudes and fights for the good of his country. So, this EU Reformation Agreement will apply to everyone except the British, because they will not apply the provisions on human rights and fundamental freedoms, from that provision, which is likely to be stuck on our or other Member States' noses as a necessary standard to become EU members. All will apply some other provisions other than the British and Irish, which have managed to do so. This is what I am telling you in the context of the situation that Serbia has a negative natural growth in 2007. If Serbia fails to bring a strategy for demographic development in 2007, Serbia continues its path from a decade ago, which leads to the practical consequence that in 2050 we will be a state in which there will be no majority people, but Serbs will be a minority people. That's what demographics say, because demographics are not a question that's being solved by one law, one amendment, that's a question that's been resolved through generations. It is not just a simple reproduction that needs to be done much more to improve the demographic situation. It's got to start somewhere. If, for example, Mr Dinkic said in 2004, it would be done, so it was not done, why don't we start now in 2007. Why are we waiting? Why call on EU directives? Do you see that the EU itself, or EU members, only use what suits them. It would be fairer to say that this item is so big and so big, it's considered to be just one of the ways. I could understand that it is said that the state of Serbia does not have a strategy for demographic development, that the demographic development strategy includes increasing the number of employees, that the demographic development strategy includes the belongings of those married couples who intend to have a baby, so it is said – that it will be easier for them to get apartments, that they will get jobs, that pregnant women will have 100 percent of the average, that young couples will get loans, that young couples, or mothers, will have the possibility of prolonged pregnancy. It's all part of the strategy, but something has to start. Such an explanation for this amendment, according to us, says the government has no angle to look at the demographic situation in Serbia. We Socialists think this is a very important issue, that the amendment should be absolutely accepted and that it will be for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3707	Thank you. Please, for the DSS-NS parliamentary group Dr Vojislav Kostunica, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3708	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only comment on the proposal of NGOs from Vojvodina, which is proposed to abolish VAT on baby clothes and children up to 10 years old. In fact, I will remind you that the zero VAT rate does not mean a lower retail price at the same time, because it is also necessary to take into account first the fact that it is impossible to release the previous tax and the previously paid product tax that have a zero rate. Then there's that famous VAT paradox that zero rate doesn't mean a lower retail price. It seems to me that this proposal would be much more quality, I'm sure it would trigger a lower retail price if it applied to a lower rate. At a lower tax rate, we can also say again that there is a new problem, and that is one tendency that products simply run from a higher rate to a lower rate. Just remember our practice where the number of clothes 14 had markings – A, B, C, D, so the stockers, people of 120 kilograms, were able to wear without paying taxes on the sales of goods, therefore, which were conducted as a child's dressing room. I think this proposal should be considered. All measures should be applied that will allow our people to survive. When such initiatives are put forward, I don't think that the proposings should be used in a social demagogy that will certainly have support from the work of the public. Just enough to ask a serious accountant among these people who are proposing, to find that what I'm saying is true, which is that zero doesn't mean a lower retail price at the same time. Our society must be defined for broader measures against the white plague. I come from a region where, by the number of newborns, it certainly belongs to a place where white plagues and destroys our people. That doesn't mean we're just one-sided measures to prevent the white plague in our country. So DSS and NS can't support this proposal right now. We appeal to the Minister for the coming year to look at all possibilities, to see how much budget expenditures and budget revenues will be and to support this proposal next year by bringing the baby's equipment and clothes down to a lower rate, which would guarantee a lower retail price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3709	Thank you very much. Here you go, the SPS parliamentary group has four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3710	Thank you very much. Four minutes is enough. Just two sentences to say. Our colleague, deputy head of the parliamentary group, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, has been fighting on this issue for several years, if I may say so. It is constantly being answered – with the next budget we will see if there is a possibility of doing so. Then there's absolutely all those other reasons that are being mentioned here. Secondly, if there's this fear of being overpriced, how you're not worried about computers and computer equipment. I very much respect and strongly support the reduction in the rate of importing computers and components for computers. I'm asking you, who's going to work on those computers? Isn't it the state's interest to stimulate the birth of children first and foremost? Of course, with all the other stimulating measures, it is one of those measures that sends a clear message to Serbian citizens, what orientation and in which direction the Serbian government is going. Another question and another question, we are witnessing these days that we are simply running one campaign to accept a solution like this in which a tax on added value for baby equipment and clothing and shoes would be abolished. I think it's a chance to actually do that. Otherwise, everything would be funny and here I am now publicly calling the government and the president of the National Assembly from this pay phone. They now have the opportunity to support this amendment and thus send a clear message to the public. Why? In a press release, the president said that he as a parent and as a man supports it and that he would advocate such a thing, that even if I am not mistaken, he would organise a meeting with the minister, etc. I think it's absolutely for support. Serbian Prime Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, I guess that's his name, said last night he strongly supports the amendment. People, here's a chance for all of us to get together on this and actually support this amendment together, and Dr. Zarko Obradovic has offered two options. One is to completely abolish, which I think would be best if Dr. Zarko Obradovic excused. Secondly, it is possible to reduce the value rate as in the computer. And here's an opportunity for the Minister of Government and for the President of the Assembly, and here's an opportunity for all those who tell us how good it is and how it should be adopted, but we'll see in some next budget. If that's good, and it is, there's no reason to wait for the next budget. We can do it now. I call on all MPs to vote on this amendment in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3711	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP, Zoran Krasic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3712	I came out just to remind the MPs and the public that from the moment he entered the procedure of the Value Added Tax Act, these two parliamentary groups – the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia – have led an action to free the payment of VAT on what is the subject of Article 6 of this bill. This law - value added tax, has been changed several times and we have always submitted such amendments. This is practically the fourth change of this law and we have always been made by the promoters, rarely when by MPs who support the democratic bloc of the government, we have heard something that can be ordinary insinuations and they are 'yes', but it's not yet time. You probably know that in the politics of birth, among others, the very important role of the game and the question of what are and what are the costs of keeping, raising, raising babies and children at all. Given this serial refusal, this government continues this anti-population policy. Otherwise, I wouldn't be able to figure out what their political premise is. It's just impossible, here's a third year and a fourth amendment to this law, and there's always the same story about baby equipment and something where there's no possible abuse. I'm just surprised with some observations here about babies that weigh 100 kilos. I know that MP had his own baby equipment store, but in his day, when he was doing that job, probably babies were 100 kilos. There are no babies like that today. If the main reason for one of the parties in power is that there is a possibility of abuse, please enable this abuse. Let's make it a tax abuse when it comes to babies and children. Here, aware we're going to abuse. The question is, what is abuse? If we put that into the text of the law and it becomes a rule of conduct, it becomes a norm. It's probably about one-off incomes on this basis, and this government continues to seize the continuity of those ghastly governments wherever they can get their hands on it. But you run an anti-population policy and here's concrete evidence. I couldn't say this two years ago. You were talking at the time – we're stalking the VAT, although we suggested that the general rate not be 18, but 14%, and that I don't sort out everything. We used to take you seriously that you were some great politicians, so you went into the debate and you gave some statistics and some judgments. Oh, what black statistics. You need to be encrusted from a pay phone like this, so that the most common man understands you. This government runs an anti-population policy. Why? Because some in that government don't have the cost of baby equipment and they can't understand that people single out big funds to protect their children. I was surprised the other day, I hear the president of the National Assembly taking a stand – dear parents, now, at this stage, it is impossible and we will see it in November. Who authorized the president of the assembly to say that? The president of the National Assembly is the president of all MPs, not parliamentary majority. The president of the National Assembly cannot hold on to some unresolved issue, where there is still no decision, to hold the position of his parliamentary group or his political party. It's illegal and inappropriate. It is contrary to the basis of parliamentaryism. He's got parents, he's got to say there's one amendment, and we'll see what happens with that amendment. If you want to install it, the right path is either through an MP who will propose an amendment to the law or through an amendment, given that the procedure for the adoption of this law is under way. If the president of the National Assembly said, you know what, there were no conditions and we're going to see that in November, when we're bringing the 2008 budget, is there somewhere to replace the funds that would fall off on this basis – what is that explanation? The President of the Assembly is not a government official. The president of the assembly is the first among the equals, except he has an obligation to chair. We have a general problem with the Democrats when they represent and represent something. I warned you a few days ago to take off under the emergency position of Boris Tadic's official trip. Did you see that? As soon as he gets out, he makes a diplomatic scandal. You smiled two days ago and now you're crying. If he committed a crime himself, he should answer, not apologize. What kind of way is that? It's supposed to bond, you know. It's an emergency to tie up! Wherever he comes out, he's doing damage. Mr. Dulic, you, as president, show that tendency. We did not empower you when you receive a delegation to issue an open question, for which there is no position of the National Assembly, you state some of your views. So, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, besides destroying production, shutting down businesses, destroying the banking system, firing workers, we now have almost a million unemployed, you see, the democratic bloc is a danger and children. They do not want there to be as many children in Serbia as possible and at every step of the way. Maybe a year ago it was foggy, vague, today it's completely clear. That's what they're doing, like you said earlier, now they're running away because of a 100-pound baby. Isn't it possible to use computers and computers? Worse. You've heard what Hans Holtius is at the head of some pedophile organization, you're getting some information every day through those computers about what criminals are doing. Is it based on what you're proposing that lower rate I can conclude that you're aiding computer crime? No, no one's objecting to that. It's okay, it's supposed to be an electronic education of the nation, it takes as many people to have computers on well-defined terms as possible. Maybe in 1991 the computer was a luxury, not today. Ten years ago, the cell phone was a luxury, today it's not, but the diapers are still fifty and a hundred years ago and today and tomorrow it won't be a luxury, the Humana won't be a luxury, and everything that's needed for kids won't be a luxury, but it's a need. I'm not going to quote some estimates and some statistics on the dark side of population policy in Serbia right now. She didn't start with democratic authority. I have to tell you, this is called democratic power. We've been having trouble with population policy for 25 years. Some people warned about what would happen to us 25 years ago. Some professor Ciric from Nis, who then cried out to all possible institutions, warned about what was going on with our Natalie. Everyone laughed at him. They called me, too, they say, just a story of birth 15 years ago. Here, you see, the devil has come for himself. We're getting lost, we're chilling, we're disappearing. Why? What's the problem with Serbia having children? Is that a problem? You see, in our immediate environment, their temporarily occupied territories have become narrow. In our home, for several years, he's dying more than he's born. The likely way out of this situation is to help families who have small children to get to the necessary equipment as cheaply as possible. Under the term "equipment," I mean everything and everything about specifically small children. I agree with this amendment. These are the amendments we've been representing here for four years. You'll see for yourself when it's time to vote, the SPS and the SRS will vote, these others will be neutral, these will all be red, who are in power. Why? Because some minister over there wrote that he was going to get it on that basis. Why didn't you give us an analysis to see how much budget funds would be collected on the basis of value added tax for this equipment, so let's see if it's worth having a discussion about the issue. Should we find another source? Here, take a look at this bankruptcy mafia, provided Dusan Petrovic doesn't let it go, because he became the minister of justice just to make the bankruptcy mafia, to end it, because he has some of his own, but about that path. And we'll get to that point sometime. Let's see what amount of funds you're counting on during 2007, or you're counting on -- well, six months is charged, so let's keep charging by the end of the year. It is no good to change the tax rate during the year, etc. What did you negotiate for three months? We are too late in this Europe because of your negotiations, because of the quorum, much is late in Europe. On the true meaning of why this should be released, I hope Mr. Paja Momchilov will explain to you, to convince you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3713	Thank you. Dr. Pai Boys. The total time for the SRS is four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yes, it's a short time, but I'll be very brief. Mr Krasic said from this speaker a clear view of the SRS, which has not changed for years, that we now consider, together with a group of Socialists, that this area should be freed, as well as parents, additional and enormous payments. Therefore, it is clear that we are absolutely in favour of removing VAT for baby food and equipment and clothing for children. There are no disputes here. Mr Krasic said one thing, perhaps someone can be made too sharp, that this government is running an anti-popular policy. That's absolutely true. Not that we have a white plague, but we biologically, from this space, disappear. Every year, 30,000 people are less in this country and the situation can only be corrected by two measures. The first measure is to reduce general mortality, and in this general mortality they play a significant role in preventable diseases, and the second is to raise the birth rate. Therefore, these are clear things that should be strategic guidelines that we should go to. What is clear and to prove, to support Mr Krasic's claim that this government is running an anti-population policy, is something that is also in the domain of health care. In fact, we don't have a national health policy in the Assembly. We in the National Assembly did not realize that today the basic task of our health service was to preserve the biological integrity of the nation and that it was not written anywhere. Until it is written down, we understand that this government is not leading a population policy, but rather leading a radical policy. On a practical ground, this can easily be seen from two examples. Imagine, when a woman is pregnant, it's an extra standard service for her husband to be present for birth. That's ridiculous. In some institutions, where possible, parents have to pay 15 grand for their husband to attend the birth. It's a civilization service, where it can be applied, it needs to be applied, but it's not a standard service. The extra standard service is if you give the apartment to give birth to pregnant women in more comfortable conditions than other patients are given birth, where there will be TV and everything else that goes and it should be charged. On the other hand, imagine a birth benefit is also an extra-standard service when the epidural is in use. I'm not going to get into any professional problems about it, but we had such a funny situation that the minister explains that it's normal for the delivery of pain and the minister to say that it's normal for it to be a non-standard service when you want to get sick, and even some who were forced to say that it's even harmful, to apply that kind of anesthesia. It's quite clear what we're facing. They say it's not the time. Let me ask you, why isn't this the time? Because he's 30 percent unemployed? Is it because the average personal income is about 30 grand? I think that's exactly when it's time for us to accept a amendment like this and advocate a policy like this. Do you think the time when the economic situation is good and it's almost not going to be good, do you think that's the time? I don't think that's the time right then and that won't be necessary then. Therefore, the SRS absolutely supports this proposal and from this pay phone let it be clear to everyone that we are in favour of abolishing VAT on these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3715	Thank you, Minister Cvetkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say a few words about this amendment, and that will also apply to this next one. As we have heard, everyone is in agreement and supports this initiative, so I also support it, but there seems to be one nuance where consent to the initiative is interpreted as consent to the amendment. I think there's a difference. I support the initiative, but not the amendment, and I will explain why not the amendment and what it means to support the initiative, but not to amend it. The amendment, if you look at it as it says, is required to bring in baby and shoe equipment and clothing for children up to the age of 10. This specific item is very vague, inaccurate and can mean a huge list of products and no one will be able to do so effectively on the basis of such a defined amendment tomorrow. So what's important is to get away from this idea to get the key things that are clearly and precisely defined and said – that's what we want to do and what we want to support. Another reason why I find the amendment unacceptable as such, in addition to the inaccuracy of the list or list, which is because it is not sufficiently studied to target the layer that will have the benefits. We're talking about kids in general, and our explanation is that baby equipment is expensive, that people don't have money. Of course, that's true, but probably not for all categories of the population. If you introduce a tax exemption, then you release everything. Is there any possibility that it might be more targeted and socially targeted, so that those who are richer are not subject to liberation than these others? So we need to consider this question that hasn't been considered here. Finally, this amendment, i.e. this law is bigger, you know it's called a package of budget laws, which means that these laws support the fiscal capacity that powers the budget. By accepting such an amendment, without a clear list and without a clear deficit figure to appear, it automatically requires that a contradiction be found, which will now be increased and withdrawn from some lower rate to higher, and thus complete the deficit that will occur. Given these three circumstances, I support the initiative, I do not support the amendment, and then we return to that matter of time, when it is time, which one MP has asked. Now it's time to start the analysis. Now is not the time to adopt and create these problems, but we can start with the analysis and the effects of that analysis to include in the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3717	On behalf of LDP MP Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3718	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this is one question that is actually the essence of our political action, and they are rightly the people who have self-organised, drawing our attention to the political goals that we have been talking about in the election campaign and the role of politics and politicians in our society. Mr. Cvetkovic, your argument is partly acceptable to the LDP. The idea is that we talk about this, the idea of looking together for a solution, an idea that will have our absolute support and has it now. But one part of your argument is unacceptable, and it comes down to short deadlines where you worked on this budget. This is not a question since yesterday, this is a question discussed in parliament every year. This is a question that we meet in every election campaign and every activity, regardless of the period and character of that moment. I think we need to be more open to each other. The fundamental question is the role of the state in our society. Is the state allowed its social role to be reduced to charity and thus the whole society began to treat it practically as a social case? The problem we are talking about is the problem we faced during the 2001 tax reform. We then found a solution in equating taxes and eliminating the reliefs that were present at the time. The authority we inherited in 2001 has formally made it easier for the government to make it possible, but at the same time, by not applying the whole series of measures, to allow major abuses. But the state's inability to sanction abuse can't be an excuse for such a rigorous tax policy in the situation of our society today. The elimination of value added tax, on these issues, is a minimum measure that the state can apply. She's not enough on her own. We were talking about the social character of this budget. We support those tax reliefs that you mentioned, the downsizing of the first apartment tax. We point out some of the problems that this decision will follow, but at the same time we can't put an end to it. It is clear that there is no money in our budget for this measure, and no one thinks that the government did not want to take down the value added tax, as the property tax, or the transfer of absolute rights, was removed. No one thinks you want to do it, but obviously there's no money. Now the question is how do you make money? It's created through two activities. It is created through the reform of the state, through the savings of the state through the relocation of funds and on the other hand through the creation of preconditions for normal life, because it is a growing circle of people who need social support from the state, with the paradoxical fact that the state shares charity with those it previously destroyed. For us, this is the last moment for a political turn, on that matter. Let us take advantage of the time ahead of us for a rational arrangement that will answer those questions that life asks us daily. Let the state leave those segments and those activities where it is incompetent and dysfunctional. The state has nothing to look for in business. Let's quickly privatise public enterprises. Let's make them efficient services, not party shelters for the people who have proven themselves in the past. Let's develop a market economy, let's liberalize social relations. In such a way that we open spaces for those people who need space, in order for their values to come to terms, but at the same time to be aware of the price Serbia must pay in the transition. If anyone should pay that price, we said in our election campaign who should pay that price. Come on, let's let the parents pay her. Let it be paid by generations of elders. They live for young people, and that's not the problem. In the election campaign, we came across the support of this idea. We said, "Come on, old man, you push us, we'll pull back." There must be a way for normal family functioning in Serbia. That should be one of the joint initiatives. It is not good that we here in Parliament have made a budget in two days. I don't think that's entirely your fault and your failure. We can understand the situation in which you were in the government's choice, but we can't have an understanding for those who brought you into this situation and we can't accept part of your reasoning that actually speaks of a lack of time to define those tax reliefs. It's not a problem in time, the problem is that there's no money, or the fact that it's being spent on other purposes. The MPs and the consequences of the SRS that they are talking about are right – come on, tell us what amount of funds it is, so that they can see together whether there is even a possibility for a partial relocation of funds and transfers from some other sources. We don't know that today. The abuses that were present in the past, and many of them, they were the consequences of the state's inability to effectively implement the laws and defend the system it was building. It's true, we all know that suits have been sold for a child for up to ten years, with versions A, B, C, D, so it's a life suit and we know it sold shoes number 40 and it said 30. It can't be, because it's an incompetent state, an incompetent tax administration, incompetent inspections, and we pay them all. Then let's say you're not doing your job, you're gonna get fired! So we hire someone who's out of work to enforce the laws and protect the system, we insist on it, and we insist on it. The state needs to change its orientation. To focus primarily on the health sector, health care, social policy to experience its priority and to implement, on the other hand, the reform of the state administration as soon as possible, so that we can function differently. Pulling out of business, because there's nothing in business to look for, are the most inefficient public enterprises i.e. those public enterprises that have monopolies, and you, and me, and everyone in this room knows and we need to talk about those 11 billion Velimir Ilic, who will be spent beyond any order, beyond any control. It is precisely because his 14 MPs make up a parliamentary majority without which there is no government, and then he brings his favorite coffeemaker and he sets him up as the director of the Railways, the second one to bring in his favorite and position for the director of Aerodrom, the third JAT, the fourth EPS, the fifth of the NIS, and ultimately pay taxes for children. This should change, we insist on it, we support this initiative, and it is significant for two reasons: first, because it is logical and corrects failures and corrects the tax policy of the state and second, because it shows that there is enough energy in our society, life energy, which is necessary to pass through transition successfully. If we know that there is no justice in the transition, let us at least be honest and be quick, and that will be the moment when the agreement is made on the jobs that need to be done in Serbia and when all of us here in Parliament agree on these issues, and that we are only different in matters of determining the personal ability to solve defined problems. This is precisely why we had the power to support those initiatives of the government that we felt were good, to point out the good moves you make through the adoption of the 2007 budget law and to amend certain tax rules, but at the same time to remind you that Serbia in 2007 cannot function as it has functioned in the past, because the question of resources is being raised, the question of capacity. Instead of 17 billion for health care, we've singled out three billion. Every fifth patient will get help, four won't get help. Instead of reducing the consumption of the state, we have increased the pressure on those citizens who have survived that policy and the state that Serbia is in the past 15 or 20 years. That's what's wrong. I don't think that only these measures can change the demographic image of Serbia, we should also talk about it, but I think we need to create preconditions for the normal lives of people in this country. If someone is at risk to the extent that the young, families, mothers are threatened, let's say that the state has so much power to provide that hand of support and co-operation through the reform of the tax policy, which we can work on together and on which we should work together. We are ahead of us in July, August of the month, come out and tell us in what time we will agree, hold a session where we will amend the laws that we are adopting today and thus correct a mistake that I do not think you have committed for personal purposes, but a mistake that results from a tragic system which is seen by society as a fuel, regardless of the fact that this society is becoming more vulnerable and that it cannot inevitably suffer the pressures that it is exposed to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3719	There are 30 seconds left for the SRS parliamentary group, MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS insists that the amendments be adopted for several reasons. It's obvious that the finance minister only wants to extend the solution to this problem. We expected the financial aspect of such an amendment, and in any case, if you had a good desire and will, you could have been using the amendment to correct, if you are not satisfied with such a solution or DS, you have a large number of MPs, to define precisely how this amendment would be accepted and absorbed in this law through your amendment. I'll just give you some more demographics. The average Serbian family has 0.9 children in Serbia, and the average Cypriot family has 6.7 children in Serbia, which means that in 2100 Serbs will be a minority in Belgrade itself. If you look at this kind of data, we're sure this is a complex issue with 200,000 couples being treated for sterility, surely this can only be one initiative to solve the problem. The problem is complex nature, but in any case you as finance minister must take care of the generation and the solution to the very complex problem that plagues all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3721	There are 12 minutes left for the DSS-NS parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3722	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am not reporting for a discussion on the amendment, but I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's discussion, article 104, pages 2 and 3. In his discussion, Mr. Jovanovic said in inappropriate words about the director of the railway and likely tried to use his witty or offensive way of exposure to say that Mr. Sarancic is a coffeemaker. Mr. Sarancic is the Master of Economy and as the Director of the Public Enterprise "Serb Railway" came on the basis of a proposal from the New Serbia and the government commission that gave consent to his appointment. After all, and that he is a barman, Mr. Sarancic must have been a moral man and the results of his work in the past three years fully justify the choice which he fell for in 2004. Surely Mr. Sarancic was never in some very cloudy spheres, unlike Mr. Jovanovic, who, we must all admit, had the opportunity to show his professional and moral sense of authority in the period when he was in this room from 2000 to 2003, the president of his party's parliamentary group and when he was vice-president of the government. We all know that today's media is also full of questions waiting for answers on Mr. Jovanovic's work during that period, so it might be interesting that Mr. Jovanovic from this pay phone once and officially says something more about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3723	Replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3724	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not spend too much time on the answers required by me by a representative of New Serbia. I hope that the Prime Minister will come here, so I'll be happy to answer to him everything the mafia in his name asks as a question, and that mob that was on his parliamentary list, which is sitting in your parliamentary group. You know who I mean. As for the debate on the previous amendment, I was very clear. I wasn't talking about the professional training of the director of the railroad. I was talking about the circumstances that made him do it. He came to the position of director of the railways as director of the bar, so it may be logical for you to move forward in your career, but it is a career development that has some consequences behind it. Your President Velimir Ilic, Minister of Capital Investments in the previous government, and the Minister of Infrastructure in this government, thinks it's logical to place his favorite coffeemaker as director, and then the director thinks it's logical that in a dress-up boutique, we all need to agree and say that there are 11 billion dinars in the budget for his wits, but there are no demands for 35,000 people who asked us to take taxes off their families and their children. These troubled times are because of you, because of your policy, criminalizing anyone who is your alternative and your opposition. I will keep a lot to discuss in Parliament, which will talk about the issue of trust with the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and I will talk about the godfathers, those who have recited the tobacco mafia, so the money will be worn to the Secretary-General of the Government, Dejan Mihajlov, or to the godfathers who sold "Mobtel", so they give a billion euros to a private bank to rob Serbia, or to the best men who wrote applications and indictments that the murderers of Zoran Djindjic would be released, and that is the topic to be discussed here in Parliament. And that we're serious about these intentions is saying everything we've done so far. I witnessed 11 hours in the Serbian Parliament in 2003. Every court in this country has confirmed that I was telling the truth, while the Prime Minister, his policy and criminal association, which is behind it, untruely, did not elect funds against it. So here in Parliament, there will be talks about Serbian godmothers, the mafia, the murderers, the criminals, the smugglers from your parliamentary group, your parliamentary list, so someone will come out of this parliament with the right to lead this country, and someone with an obligation to remain silent, to be ashamed and to finally account for everything he has done to Serbia. A criminal association of RTS through "Politicals", "News", "Presa", "Kurra", a hysteria that testifies to the fear that exists among them, untruth, lies, it cannot push essential issues aside. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, time. ) One of these countries has made the last haven for all the blackest in Europe, and that someone needs to sit down here to talk to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3725	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I have tried to gain the right to a replica, the President of Parliament has denied me that, and I am now calling for Article 101(1). In fact, Mr. Minister said, right, here, since I've been catching notes occasionally, in years I'm when I need it, he said, and now, on account of what the minister said, whether it's time or not. Therefore, the minutes can also be checked, so that you can make sure that I am mentioned by name and last name, which is not necessary, but no other MP has spoken of. Mr. Minister, you've started to deal with sophisms, that's good, you tell us here – I support the initiative, but I don't support the amendment. Thank you very much. So we're right on principle, and you're acting unprincipled, as far as I can tell. Your argument was that you would lose money and you said – well, here is the correct specification of the goods. That law shouldn't even work, Minister, to make a specification, that's what you should do in your ministry, and that's the subject of the regulation, I guess you know so much the procedure and the legislation. I'm a doctor, I get that. You didn't think you were legalizing puppies and this and that and so on. Next, you say you need to target the layer. You don't understand the intensity of a population policy that will greet every newborn child, even if he's rich, even if he's poor. Whoever's poor, you have social protection measures there, so you protect him, if you're a serious state, and this one's rich, taxed, and you cut it with a dragon's tax, and I guess that's pretty clear. You're saying we need to make an analysis, so let's go with the analysis. What kind of analysis? The analyses are all made up, and if you need help, here, to get the SRS and Mrs. Jorgenka to do it, they'll do it for free, if you can't and you don't know. So, the fact that money is missing, money has, absolutely, and that's the 160 billion you've shared for the reward for successful privatisation, that's the 37% you're raising to fund employees, and health care workers far less, that's what you predicted in this budget to build a new health insurance fund building. After the break-up of Yugoslavia, we have three SIV buildings, and some bolts are empty and betrayed for other purposes. Now we have to build a new building. Now, that's your policy. So get out of the way and don't beat us up. You're working against this people and that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3727	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Belic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3728	I am advocating the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, as the speaker before Mr Momchilov made an ugly statement or expressed himself about our parliamentary group. To go in order, the old Romans said: God, what times and customs, and our locals say by system – hold the thief and it is the best option to take off some responsibility or to draw public attention to someone else. Mr. Jovanovic, you were the Deputy Prime Minister, as I recall, or should we say another government man when the Prime Minister was a waiter? I remember it was, and secondly, I don't know what kind of business you've been doing as vice president of the government, I don't know what qualification you've had as Deputy Prime Minister. Did what was extremely suspicious, I don't know, dramaturgy, man finish dramaturgy, graduate from dramaturgy, and were those references to being Deputy Prime Minister? If we want to be honest, I'm not going to go into those engagements of yours or the arrangements you've made as you spoke in the interest of the state or of the corporate business for the state in Schiller or the Central Prison, etc. What you spoke of in this house before the messengers, for it will certainly be made clear by those who are paid for it and who should do this work. That nervousness that catches you is probably the result of an unclean conscience. I would not mention the director-general of the Railways of Serbia, above all, which fully meets the requirements required. It's much more important what happened to the railroad in the last three years, in what state the railways were when you were Deputy Prime Minister, while your waiter was doing the jobs of the Prime Minister, or the ministers from the parties close to you. The biggest problems, we have a chaotic state that was in the railways and that's the past now. This restructuring that has started will really lead us to solving a number of problems, and especially because of the establishment of a dialogue between management, of course, and unions and not getting into all of this, because I am not the attorney general of the Railways, I want to tell you in principle. The fact that you accuse New Serbia's MPs of belonging to this group or to that group reminds me of what I said at the outset - hold thieves, or – God, what times and customs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3729	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3730	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 101. What Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said about this speaker may be the subject of some press conference that he and his MP group are, as they stood at the moment when they felt less secure, as they say, but not for this speaker when we are talking about amendments to the laws that are ahead of us today. Whether he feels safe or not, it should prove to the institutions that do this job, should protect him or not, and he who has said a foreign exchange here, which he says, my hands are dirty, but my conscience is calm. I don't need to do things like that. It is a great skill, Mr. Jovanovic, that now someone you represented as a slow, three-man, incompetent, and I'm talking about a completely different man, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, now suddenly turn into a leader of the mafia. It's interesting that in the media he didn't appear as the leader of the mob, your name appeared very often. There's no need for us to deal with, what kind of survey committees, what are you talking about, Mr. Jovanovic? You've been questioned for 12 hours by the board of inquiry, please, why you didn't appear in court. I read a few days ago that she was delayed where you were supposed to show up. There's no reason for MPs to be put in a position to listen to me, to you, or to anyone else. Really, I think this goes beyond all limits. So, each of us comes out and says, "Keep the thief, I'm scared, it bothers me, and so on." No, I'm not afraid, I'm not afraid of Mr. Markovic, no one's threatening me, my jeeps don't fly into the air because I don't have them, they don't tear down my houses. So, I'm calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3731	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and then Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3732	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm guessing that Madam is a DSS MP, I haven't had a chance to see her before, so I assume that's why you're partly mistaken. I've never been late for any trial, and I've appeared at each and every political and legal court, and I've proved not my innocence but the existence of a criminal association that destroys this country. The fact that you, through your mob media, which you control, wish only your voice to be heard, had nothing to do with our silence. Ma'am, since you're not really here to discuss matters with me, I will only answer that I have testified in this House and in the Special Court and in three court proceedings. No, by proving their innocence, but by helping the institutions of this country learn the truth. Those courts didn't show up whose name you're trying to speak so clumsyly today, and that's what I mean by Vojislav Kostunica. In a trial that ended two weeks ago, no supporters of the two criminals who falsely accused me appeared in 2003. I don't feel bad about knowing that me and people like me the system that you created wants the worst, it makes me feel bad about the system where my kids grow up and the system where other kids are supposed to grow up and I fight it. Take me to court and judge me there if you have anything to judge me with, but you won't get it from me so you can make a mess in the country and expect me to keep my mouth shut. And it's not your head of the government, the boss of the mob Stanisic, the boss of the mob is Miskovic, the boss of the mob are tycoons who made this country their private property, and he's just giving them something like that. The boss of the mob is the godfather, who sits in your president's office, the boss of the mob is the best man of the government's secretary-general, who recites the tobacco mob. Mr. Jovanovic, I don't know if you know what you're saying. You've just directly accused several people I personally don't know, but I'm afraid this really isn't the place. I don't want to debate with you, it's not my intention. You'll have another 30 seconds, as far as you're entitled to the Rules of Procedure, but now I'm speaking to you and telling all the other MPs. Today we are discussing amendments to the VAT Act. Come on, please, let's stick to the subject, it doesn't make sense. Here you go. You've got 30 seconds left. ) Thank you, Mr. Dulic, but I will remind you that we have not opened other questions in this debate but representatives of the parliamentary group in which he is sitting as an MP, elected on the list of Vojislav Kostunica, the man charged with cigarette smuggling. So I didn't do it, and since you don't know the people I'm talking about, let me take responsibility for what I'm talking about. I will not participate in this debate which should return to issues that are on the agenda, but I have just drawn attention to the fact that we spend 11 billion dinars, not knowing in what way, but having knowledge of the man we are giving that money to, while on the other hand we do not have money for children in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3733	Thank you. So my request is to really get back to the agenda, and that's the amendment debate. All these hands that have been raised to advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure are hands that will lead to us having ten more hands up after five minutes. If you want to continue to discuss the amendments, we'll continue, if not, I'll take a break and we'll continue in an hour or two. Please, the degree of efficiency of this assembly does not depend on whether you want to... All right, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3734	Mr. President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on this interesting debate of information that could be heard, I considered it necessary that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I repeat my request to the Republic of Serbia, or the Special Prosecutor, to provide information about what the State has done, or what it intends to do about all these statements that have been heard in the past days. Every day, the mosaic is complete and we learn facts that were previously unknown, at least for most ordinary citizens. I consider myself one of the citizens who knows what the public knows. Mr. Dulic, I'm not going to deal with these things that have already been mentioned, but I really think it is necessary for the Republic Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor to provide absolutely information, because in statements that could have been heard in the previous days, there are a lot of information about the ties between the state and the mafia or the mob members. So, state and mafia ties, but also about the role of the judiciary in the whole thing, because it's obvious that some people have tarnished face and justice and their own, and we need to know exactly what the state of Serbia has at this point. Yesterday, for the sake of example, we had the opportunity to find out that, behold, the solution to the release of Dusan Spasojevic was signed by the deputy prosecutor of the Fourth Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, which was, in fact, the chief prosecutor in Ibarska Mostar. It was an accident. So he gave political qualifications in Ibarska masteral regarding Slobodan Milosevic. That is what his colleagues in the judiciary and the lawyers asked him, if Milosevic is guilty of not pressing charges, and if you did not press charges, why do you mention him? But it was meant to give a political qualification to this tragic event and that murder. Whether it's a subsequent conscience or that the authorities don't remember what it was before, no offense to members of ethnic communities, because it's a term used, but it absolutely shows that the state has to react. If the state does not answer these questions that some of us MPs are asking and if things don't end, we will all remain in doubt that in Serbia, things are not clean and that the mafia and tycoons are managing Serbia. If the prosecution doesn't inform us of what the media is saying and what we're asking them to do, then they have no right today or tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to appeal to principles that promote when they want to build their own position. It is in Serbia's interest to examine all this and those who have done anything contrary to the law to be brought to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3735	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic appears and then Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3736	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm really not gonna hold this meeting for more than a few seconds. What Mr. Jovanovic said could be in another film, in another story, but not in Serbia. Mr. Jovanovic, you will not give me the right to build a system for children of this world and from this country where vice presidents of the government will not become imperfect students, who after 15 minutes of their first political function have jeeps, houses, horses, ergels, who deal in dirty business, have suspicious friends. I want to build another system. I fully respect that you have the right to do it as you will, but allow my right to live in a normal country where those who break the law in prison and those who sit in the congregation are fighting for the good of those children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3737	Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3738	Article 104, violation of the dignity of the Assembly, paragraph 2. It's hard for us to listen to this without feeling offended when a man comes out and says that ransoming the state's apartment is from rail restructuring. It hurt me very much. I have a few things to say. First of all, as far as going to court, ma'am, Dean Michael's 27 times hasn't come to trial. You know how many times that is, that's a lot of times. So Vojislav Kostunica does it a little more elegantly, he prohibits the court and the prosecutor from calling him to testify. So the reason we're doing this here is because we defend ourselves, ma'am. When the trial process for the murderers of Zoran Djindjic was completed, the general place was to examine the political background now. The first thing in a political background study was the political background of the JSO rebellion case. Many people sitting in the Office of Vojislav Kostunica today or its cups are elsewhere, will have to explain a lot about this rebellion and the whole process, which lasted from the moment of rebellion to the killing of the prime minister, is intertwined with members of your party. As far as your accusations are concerned, that's fascinating. Your party works by using media like 'Pres', NIN, Knin, 'Kurir', 'Balkan', whatever you want, to misinformation, and then you believe that information yourself. That's amazing. As for the continuation of the debate, Mr. President of the Assembly, please, given that Vojislav Kostunica is an inconspicuous man, we can't hear a single answer to his question anywhere, there's no journalist, and that he's not from RTS, who can ask any question, so, please, that next week, and you promised for last week, to schedule a debate about the government's trust. We will not allow this debate to begin before Mr. Kostunica sits here. Please, let's stop this debate now and continue with a lot more details at the moment when this gentleman is in front of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3739	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljko Tomic also appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3740	The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs, Mr Jovanovic, mentioned several names you have designated as the main mobsters in Serbia. Did your friends, maybe you personally, not get into it, hang out with these people and have some kind of contact? With Jovica Stanisic, Miskovic and all those mentioned by your friends, they sat down a few years ago and who knows what they were doing, even at the time of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic. Is that true, we all know that, there are even photos from some secret dinners, which, by the way, were no longer secret anymore. As far as the political background is concerned, it finally unwraps, but not in the way you imagined it would unwind. Now we're going to get answers to a lot of questions, of course, who's carrying the cakes in prison, who's guarding the kids, who's taking who out. Now we will get answers when those who were not allowed to speak because of certain types of pressures speak too. I hope that's very soon. What's important, too, Mr. Jovanovic, is to explain, if you admit that your hands are dirty, say in what sense they're dirty, where you are and how you dirty them. Serbia knows how you got your hands dirty, but it's your turn to tell you in person why your hands are dirty and how you got them dirty, in which mud you got into.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3741	Since there are no more applications for discussion, we move on to Article 7. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3742	Mr. President, let's get back to this one, I personally think of Serbia as a more important topic, the question of the future of generations, the question of children. I must say that the exit of Mr. Speaker and an attempt to explain inexplicably, I understand as only a modest attempt to make that bitter taste in the mouth, which remains with a huge number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not prepared to do anything about this, to ease it a little bit. The answer to the "you didn't specify the positions" type, I think it was best explained by Mr. Pai Momchilov. The answer of the guy "maybe those who have money don't get even," that's funny. Mr. Minister, tell me what the cost of the computer is and is it in the amendment previously accepted by the Government, which bears the mark-components, are all the contents of what is meant by the 'component'? Mr. Minister, tell me, who in Serbia can buy the first apartment and be tax-free? Can it be rich or can they be poor? What population does that apply to? It's not true, but you had a pre-election promise to cut your first apartment property tax and you did it, and you didn't have this question at all in your discourse, you weren't thinking about it, and now you're trying to give us something that should look like an answer. The fact is that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not think about this issue, the government of the Republic of Serbia has no answer to this question. Don't try to give answers that don't make sense. I've offered two amendments, one to the removal of VAT completely, and the other is to reduce the rate from 18 to 8%. Some colleagues who went out to defend the government's position -- if it were 8, then it might, but since it's not... There's no story, when the government will, it can. When the government has a strategy, it can find a solution. It's not unknown. We had such a situation in the National Assembly, that the Government gave an amendment that could be in the spirit of amendments to one of the MPs, but which is acceptable to the government, and good for Serbia. That amendment is absolutely part of a law that regulates a question. You didn't even bother to do it here, because you have no attitude on this issue at all. If the Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or President say that this initiative is not bad, you will tomorrow submit a proposal to amend and supplement the VAT law, so you will tell us everything that we MPs are saying, that it is good, that it is terribly important for Serbia, that this should be done, that it should be done. Should we have submitted a list of products to be bought, prices for children, the structure of these products? Please don't. Tell the MPs of the National Assembly and the citizens who launched this initiative loud and clear that there is nothing out of it, because the government does not want to resolve this issue. Avoid these explanations that you predicted where to take the funds from, etc. That story was about the budget, and this is VAT law. The government's task is that, if it appreciates that something is in Serbia's interest, regardless of which MP it has proposed, it supports it. You don't have any attitude on this issue. The point is you don't have an attitude. I made it clear, and so did the other fellow MPs, but you obviously don't want to hear it. Your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister, the other day in Politics said that the real question is, in fact, who has a monopoly over this area, over these products. It would be good if you told us what the government is going to do, if they won't accept this, they intend to do it systematically? The government has no intention of systematically doing this, because this question is not even tangling, because it has not been discussed before, and the question is when will it be? I didn't happen to say that Serbia has a negative birth rate. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know is that between the two censuses, the population of the Republic of Serbia has been reduced by more than 85,000, that some 390,000 people in the 1990s went abroad, with a length of stay abroad for over a year and they count as someone who left, but we had about 379,000 refugees. Only thanks, unfortunately, to this tragic consequence, refugees from Croatia, due to the "Storm", due to the "Blash" and all that has been happening, refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, only thanks to this mechanical inflow, the demographic image in Serbia is not as tragic as demographic tendencies and movements in Serbia. The government has to answer this question today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. This kind of explanation given by the minister is really not correct. I also mentioned once again, since it obviously means nothing to some, that I quote the words of people who are engaged in demographic movements in Serbia, who say that in the beginning of the 21st century the population of Serbia belongs to a group of demographically oldest European populations. If average age is taken as a criterion of demographic age, then Serbia is in a group of the five most demographically old European states, together with Italy, Germany, Bulgaria and Sweden. Some of these countries have solutions that have reduced VAT rates and clothing, shoes and baby food have made it extremely accessible for all categories of citizens. For those who do not know, the degree of economic development does not have to be a decisive criterion for demographic growth. In a large number of Western countries, these negative demographic movements are being resolved through a large number of refugees coming to the territory of those countries. We're talking about Serbia. In Serbia of 161 municipalities without Kosovo and Metohija, which is under temporary international administration, in 155 municipalities is a negative growth. And that's 96%. The action of NGOs to lift the VAT on shoes and baby clothes is a good action. It just so happens that the discussion of VAT laws will go with their action, and that's what we Socialists have been doing for three or four years. It was a good opportunity for the government to show that it has feelings not for our amendment, but for the demands of the citizens. She could have made her amendment to solve this issue. It doesn't matter if it's an SPS promoter or some other parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament. I guess the essence of this amendment is more important. You know, I agree with the initiative, and I don't agree with the proposal, it's top-notch, to me, hypocrisy. I consciously use this word because there are no other words that can essentially explain such a relationship. I agree with the idea, but I disagree with the amendment. So make an amendment, make an amendment that will be suitable for the government, make a structure, what you don't know whether it's a regulation or a law, never mind, do. Say, it produces "Pampers," "Nestle" and so much, so make it, you know, the government can do it, make an amendment and let it adopt here. It does not matter that the amendment of the SPS MPs will fail, let the government give its amendment, which will be accepted, that the citizens' initiative is truly realised and that they realize that there is a government in this country that takes care of their demands. Anything we say affirmatively and what it should be for Serbia, it is not acceptable for you, because someone in the ministry there has not made a projection of what it should look like. The government will not accept the amendment and that is the essence, because the government has no position on this issue. He buys time and leads citizens astray and has no attitude. That story about it being later, maybe it will be, and maybe it won't. Now that there's a chance that the government will make that concrete move, she didn't do it. There is another possibility, which is that the National Assembly will vote one of these two amendments in the voting day. It is an option that is realistic, but that should be considered by all parliamentary groups, they should think well about these two amendments and accept one. Let the government tell us which at this point for the state, let's say, is causing less problems, and for the state it will be good. Let him tell us, and let them arrange it within the congregation's majority. We Socialists won't be angry with any amendment at all to accept it. It would be good for Serbia and for this initiative launched by NGOs, for the amendment to be accepted, because what people do and collect signatures, it is an objective action that does not have its end. If after a month, two days, the government submits this bill of amendments and additions to the law of added value, with such content, then what I said will be confirmed, that it was not at all sincere. If that is all there is to it and the vanity, whether a parliamentary group, an individual, will possibly benefit from it politically, then it is a complete misunderstanding of the essence of things in Serbia. Serbia has a negative rate of growth, in 155 municipalities, the number of inhabitants decreases and there is not enough number of newborn babies. We think this is a small contribution, a small step towards improving the demographic situation in Serbia. We leave the parliamentary groups with an opportunity to consider until the day of the vote, which of these two amendments is better for them, because whatever amendment they support, if one vote is passed, it will be good for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3743	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. About the amendment, Zoran Krasic, and Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3744	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Obradovic, we will support your amendment. You tried very hard to explain to us why he was important. Well done. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure to answer the wrong interpretation of the debate that she's marked here for the past hour. It is our desire to discuss this in Parliament and, of course, in front of every other institution, which we have offered both before Parliament and before all other institutions answers to questions that are being repeated on Sundays and Sundays, so as not to answer those questions that have brought life to us. So it's not disputed that in 2003 I said my hands were dirty, and that's exactly why my conscience was clean. Right, my hands are dirty because I'm all the ugly things that have ruined people's lives in this country trying to change. Someone else who can't come here today to this Parliament, his hands aren't dirty, but his conscience is dirty. They're not dirty to him because he was uninformed, uninformed, reckless, because he was a legalist. We as a parliamentary group want to talk about this in Parliament. Of course we insist on answering those questions. In doing so, we show willingness to repeat the answers to questions that have been asked so many times. Zoran Djindjic has never been a friend in the past with the people I mentioned during the previous debate, and the illusion of meeting between Zoran Djindjic and Jovica Stanisic is vulgar and pointless, such as the vulgar policy of his constant criminalisation. Last week he was a man who kidnapped people in Serbia with me, not because it's true, but because in such a way the government in Serbia is trying to destroy the only positive system and personification this society believes in when it thinks about a better future. If the ball's starting to roll, we're looking forward to it. What's happening right now is actually avoiding the essence. Simple answers and they must be given. Which is why the government of Zoran Djindjic was destroyed in 2001 through criminalisation and charges of being responsible for the murder of Momir Gavrilovic, who has not been enlightened so far, and through the organised provision of political support to the armed rebel unit for special operations, which had identical demands to the political demands of Vojislav Kostunica at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3745	Time, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3746	It's a question that needs to be answered. If the answer is any initiative that will require us to respond to everything again, we are prepared to do so. Nenad Milic was having a conversation with the special prosecutor a week ago and we're looking for the prosecution's response to the initiative we launched, and we're not going to shut up and we're not going to back down and we're not going to make a pact with criminal associations and we're not going to say what happened. We want you to be treated as a wasteland. We've provided every reasonable enough evidence for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3747	Mr. Jovanovic, your time is up. It's a business thing. National MP Ivan Andric, then replica Željko Tomic, and then we move on, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3748	First of all, Article 226, gentlemen of the DSS, you've been in power for four years, you've been in absolute power for four years. What have you done so far, and why have you waited four years for these questions to start? What happened today that you didn't know in 2003? You know what happened? The trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic has been completed. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to get an explanation from the MP who was talking about the special prosecutor's activities. I think it's extremely scandalous what we've heard here, which is that the gentleman knows what's going to happen and what won't be the subject of an investigation. No, don't answer me, come out here. We are the ones who insist that all things be examined and discovered. We don't say – don't question your cakes and nonsense. Sir, it's been examined. The two criminals you brought to the Serbian Parliament to make a statement, hold a press conference, Bandjur and Terzic, with two convictions, the press conference was shot down and their thesis. The first verdict is in front of the Fifth Municipal Court two years ago, and what they said is not true. The second verdict is the trial verdict, because they sued us for slander because Cedomir Jovanovic called them criminals and liars. Do you know what the court said? That it's not slander and that's true, sir. Today, when I say criminals, Bandjur and Terzic, who sat with Jocic, Dejan Mihajlov, I have a court ruling that confirms it and these are your witnesses. You didn't show up in any court, and that's why we're waiting for you in Parliament. Besides, I think it's really unacceptable for you to know what they're going to do and what they won't do, the court and what the special prosecutor is going to question. Have him examine the cake you're fascinated with, but it's much more serious and much more important to examine the Special Operations Unit's rebellion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3749	Thank you very much. Replica. The mandated representative of the DSS-New Serbia parliamentary group, Zeljko Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3750	I guess a colleague's gonna get his word. If anyone has the right to talk about all these problems they certainly are not, Mr Krasic was the authority at a time when the white plague also ruled Serbia, the Socialists. I would ask the socialist gentlemen - don't talk about how we got to that level that one bill is worth the nominal value of this year's budget. Don't talk about it. If, too, someone has no right to talk about the white plague like this and abuse this pay phone, it is Cedomir Jovanovic. I beg you, don't abuse this pay phone and go back to the subject. Let's see what amendments are good and let's agree that next year we have a budget that will also make it easier for newborn babies and young parents, but don't abuse and talk about everything and everything after this pay phone. Today, when we talk about amendments submitted to budget laws, this is a pay phone that suffers everything, but it's impossible to open all topics every day. I think in the next day we'll have a debate about the government and here you go, come out with your arguments and we'll vote on that government, come out, you'll vote against. Someone will vote against, and someone will, and we'll see what happens. Don't say the same thing every day. I don't think Serbia has time for an anachronous story, and don't pose as some kind of supporter of a new Serbia, who is humming towards Europe. This way we certainly don't do it, and I think this kind of obstruction, when it comes to very important laws, is clearly shown to people watching TV programs. I hope that you will be punished, not only by courts who will reveal what you have done and everything while you have been executive power, but primarily by citizens who have no understanding of such demagogy and such rage, insolence and lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3751	Thank you very much. The line was reported by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3752	With an appeal to our party and coalition partners that we no longer report on this matter and that whoever's in charge will talk about it, when the time comes, and it's just these days. I just want to tell Mr Jovanovic personally, why I and the vast majority of Serbian citizens don't believe a word. At least because in the shortest possible time you have come the longest possible political path – from admiration Radovan Karadzic to, figuratively speaking, holding Latina Perovic's skirt. And it's a long way to go. That's why we don't trust you with a single word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3753	Replica. MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3754	I, dear fellow Members of the People, would ask my colleague Matic if he had time to look at this one book published by the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and carries the date of June 2006, and it is called "The White plague". Take it, read it, and you'll see, and you'll realize that this VAT story for baby equipment, food, shoes, clothes, has nothing to do with socialists, Mr. Matić. Obviously, you can't overcome, let me say, some of your prejudices or some of your own personal attitude towards us. I honestly thought you were beyond that the moment you decided to call us to back you up in 2004. You called us to support the government, not us, even though you knew who we were. We're just better now. This topic has nothing to do with socialists. Take this book and read it. If you read it, you will see that the democratic issue and negative tendencies begin in the '70s, Mr. Matic. That doesn't seem easy for you to understand. This story, related to two amendments, is a real statement, and as far as we are concerned, the SPS policies and the ultimate good intentions for Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You don't have to accept. It's your right. Avoid these ideological explanations regarding a simple amendment. Either you accept or you don't accept the amendment. If you accept, why, and if you do not accept, why? It can't be both at the same time. Acting nice to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and saying something that isn't true. Please read this book, I would ask you to read only before voting these two amendments and then bring your court, whether these two amendments are good and whether they are worth one of those two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3755	Thank you. Replica. MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3756	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, cannot be interpreted as an obstruction and endangerment of this institution, Mr. Matic. As LDP MPs, we participate daily in the work of the Republic of Parliament. In doing so, we do so in a completely different way than MPs of the parliamentary majority. We write amendments, we participate in discussions. We have the understanding of the incompetence of those who formed the ruling coalition and allow the formation of the government within 15 minutes of the expiry of the constitutional deadline. At all times, we are very constructively involved in solving the problems facing Parliament daily and normal functioning. There's the President of the Assembly, and I think he's the one who needs to evaluate our relationship with this institution, and certainly not you. This debate began with very clear views. We have shown understanding of the circumstances in which the finance minister has found himself and there is really little time to work seriously on the budget. That's why we criticized the budget. We criticised the idea of a debate in Parliament without meeting parliamentary groups with the budget law for 2007. We said it was a precedent and we wrote amendments that were being corrected like that. The previous amendment was a problem because of the mention of clothes for children up to 10 years old. Then a 10-year-old boy wore the same clothes as someone 110 years old. But that's not in this new amendment. We have made it very clear that the need for fundamental shifts in the organization of our country, of cost relocation, of tightening the belt of the state administration and that is not destruction. The destruction is something else, when destructive healthy political ideas are treated as unacceptable because those who are obliged to apply them and who are unable to remember them do not have the power to do so. That's how the idea changes with lawlessness. That's how privatisation is identified by robbery, so the opposition and alternative are criminalized. That's the problem with our political life, and we need to solve this problem. That problem won't be solved by LDP solving it himself. This problem must be solved, not by pushing under the carpet, but by analysing every second of our troubled relationships. They are problematic at this point much more because the incompetent government of Vojislav Kostunica has decided to manipulate our daily life rather than offer clear answers. We say -- it's a bad policy towards Kosovo. It's not good to send a solution to Moscow before we, as MPs, see it here. I may have this theme, and I have no doubt that I will have it, but when there is an attitude, save us or give us a basis for what we have done. Did we ever say that you lost Kosovo? Did we say Kostunica was responsible for that? No, we have made it very clear that we are ready to support the political shifts. He has the right of the opposition to seek government here in Parliament during the debate on the budget law. It's the destruction of the congregation, so we can talk to one man about everything. (President: Time) As for trust in us or not, there are choices in which it is expressed. I think it is pointless to put a sign of equality between Radovan Karadzic and Mrs Perovic through my role and my political path. It's so much so that I don't use an offensive finding. And the lady who left the O.R. might be more careful to choose the verbs she uses in her sentences, because sometimes it seems awkward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3757	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Paja Momcilov appeared and then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard here from Mr. Matic that this debate is obstructing, that lies are being presented and that we have demagogues. I wouldn't define what it means again -- demagogy, it would be worth it if all MPs here knew, no one here is causing a hysterical mood in the people's manipulations. We're talking numbers and facts. Mr. Maticu, it's not the Socialists' fault about the problem of the white plague, it's also the layman's, not only those who are slightly referred to this problem, it's a general problem and all the developed countries of Western democracies, who call themselves and think themselves, have the problem. Where the most poor and the least money is, it's where it's born the most. Therefore, do not plant something by being wrong, even if it honors your current political opponent and formerly close associate. As for the SPS and that time, let's be honest, in the ranks of these socialists was also academic Macura, who was the world's top expert on demographics. You should know that he is the creator of many documents and one policy of pro-population, which, unfortunately, has never lived on these grounds. The SPS, unfortunately, now I have to be their lawyer, if it's something called a population policy, if it's something that's been explored in science, then she's had the privilege and the honor of having a world-class academic Macura as her member. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3759	Thank you. MP Vesna Pesic, about the amendment, please. I'm writing to you about the order in which you answer. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: What does it say to me? I answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3760	I'm reporting on the amendment, I don't know that Mr Krasic is reporting for the amendment. So I'm not taking part in the Rules of Procedure debate. I wanted to talk to you about the explanation Mr. Cvetkovic gave regarding this amendment. I also agree with the predecessors that it might be good for him to agree on this amendment, that it could not be a reason for the amendment to be rejected because it was not made in acceptable form. If the form is not acceptable, the form could be improved. Here's why. In this case, we have over 40,000 signatures, citizens' initiatives. I want to remind Mr. Secretary that he's in public appearances, and here in the assembly. He said, yes, when consumption increased, when we entered the deficit, that he had found it because of the elections and the campaign of increased earnings in the administration, above all, and that he couldn't change that situation, that the salaries were increased and that we were entering the deficit, that he couldn't change what he needed, 44 billion to spend without any control. Now I'm talking about the NIP. So where it's supposed to be, there's no NIP law, there's no way to control that money, there's no way, there's no procedure for how projects are spent, there's no procedure at local level for spending these funds. We know all that. A ministry has been created to increase spending as only the ministry. Then, every ministry that's been created increases the number of employees. If we've made such a budget where you couldn't make any intervention, where the huge resources of the citizens are being spent. Please, if we now have one citizens' initiative to reduce VAT and to abolish VAT on consumption when children are concerned, please do, however, measure a little bit. When it comes to citizens, they don't have any power, when it comes to Mr. Gilas' ministries and other suddenly... Yes, I agree as a sociologist, the more powerful the government, the more powerful these people are than powerful citizens, but show once an understanding that the citizens' initiative, when it comes to child equipment, is that at least it can be measured with Mr. Gilas, with the NIP, with the railways, etc. where you give huge subsidies to people who haven't proven themselves to be honest people. The whole debate on the Rules of Procedure began with the railways and Mr. Sarancević, who did not prove to be an honest man, where even Minister Ilic had to say that the supply of railways was not correct, I heard him with his ears when he said it on some news in public information. Please, Mr. Minister, take this debate seriously and if the amendment is not well-formulated, rephrase. Otherwise, it really doesn't make sense to ignore these initiatives of a number of citizens who have arrived in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3761	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, and then on the amendment Zoran Krasic, I read only the order of announcements, then Svetlana Kitic - SPS has three minutes and then Dr Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3762	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Since a special prosecutor for organised crime has been mentioned on several occasions during the previous debate, the criminal responsibility of individuals from previous or previous governments or from this government, I wanted to ask a parliamentary question and get a notice from the Justice Committee or from the Minister of Justice – when will they definitely be accepted to the knowledge of the resignation of Attorney General Slobodan Jankovic? A year and a half ago, the man obtained a retirement condition. Over a hundred prosecutors and judges have acquired the right and condition to retire. The Belgrade district prosecutor gained a pension condition more than a year ago. However, he had that double birth certificate, like once Montenegrin football players, so it depends on when you have to show if you're making an arrangement for a club. Why am I saying that? Because we can hardly shed light on any criminal affairs unless we have a state prosecutor. The previous government was mentioned. Yes, it is. A parallel can be made between the previous government and the criminal association, because when some political parties make a coalition with the Zemun clan, whose boss is waiting at the highest state level with tycoons, who are surrounded by affairs, the bankruptcy mafia is provoked by the main tycoon in this country and the fundier of several ruling parties. He is not covered by the bankruptcy mafia, he is not also covered by the tobacco mafia, and his firm was trading tobacco and money was going to Cyprus, as well as money obtained by privatisation of his bank. Dinkic drinks champagne. Champagne was supposed to be drinking by the Cypriot finance minister. Serbia doesn't have any idea. It's a shame and a shame and it's a crime! I filed criminal charges against Vojislav Kostunica for organising a criminal association, because whoever left Rade Markovic as BIA chief, and he burned the archives, he bears the greatest responsibility. Rade Markovic is involved in the worst and most monstrous crimes in this country: the Ibar highway, the Stambolic murder. We see from the media that he will also be charged with the murder of Curuvia. He is a fan, he is a pal of Vojislav Kostunica in our fight against us, in the discreditation of Zoran Djindjic and therefore must first bear responsibility. Let's go in line, see which criminals provided the meetings of Vojislav Kostunica. A few of them are no longer alive. They're from that pamphlet, "See you in the obituary." Who provided the inauguration of Vojislav Kostunica at the "Sava Centre" on 7 October 2000? Godfather, Shiptar and Chume. That's what we need to discuss first.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3763	National MP Zoran Krasic, followed by Svetlana Kitic, then Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3764	Mr. Doolic, I don't blame you for skipping. Don't stick to the order, because the order only exists in the elevator, the technical achievement of 2000. For the 20th century, a button is touched and he remembers, and here it's not possible. Even though I resent what you want to dig these tunnels. Don't deal with tunnels. Just be the president of the National Assembly. You're not going to be president of the National Assembly for 17 years. It's a matter of day, most people get together, the president gets resolved in no time, these people know how to do it here. This is the second amendment to the same story. If the first amendment was that baby equipment and everything about children up to 10 years is taxed by 8%, this amendment requires tax exemption, i.e. that no value added tax is paid when it comes to this equipment. Of course, we have one government position again. They would, but they don't know how, since they've already calculated that money. That the new source of funds in the budget is secure, there's no way, they don't even want to make an effort. That's why they made a big effort to have each ministry quadruple. Now let me remind you what it's been like since 2001. It's been said that there's nothing wrong with that administration, that everything should be thrown out, there's the SPS, there's the JUL, there's the SRS, so they started to throw something out, and then they saw them throw out their voters, and then they said, "Stop, it can't do this." They've created some new systems, so they've hired their own, who's here, how they've arrived. Of course, kids, so let's take it in a row. Of course, Mladjan Dinkic was first again. He can't be a poor man. He who's "tuffing," he thinks it's his toy, or he's gonna break it, or he's gonna play, there's no other. He's younger, you know him. So then that previous government had three, four parties, so there was some employment, and now this new one came and you saw they made a nice presentation of the personnel plan. So many and so many thousands were at 31. 12. 2006 by the end of 2007, the increase. You've seen the increase. They weren't life-saving, and all of this requires of course funds. They've increased the number of officials in all ministries. There continued that trend that was with that government in 2004, which knew exactly who was holding the plot. We tried to point out to you in the budget debate those positions that need to be ratified in order to leave the funds for as much as possible use as possible. They don't care about that. The democratic block is just a "drp" system just to pull itself together. You see, the babies are pulling. There's no discount, there's no discount, you let it go. You don't know as much of yourself as I know you. You can't theoretically have such an opinion, right, objectively about yourself, as I can objectively give it to you. I was very glad to hear that one hour of good debate. It was a throw, a splash. One feces on one, the other feces on the other, etc. And you're all right, it's all true what you said, but I would recommend that you go to Zemun, Square of Victory number 3, to stop by the SRS and buy a few books from 2001, "Buldozer Revolution." One great book that described how you were created, who created you, why he created you, what a dirty job you were given. Then you have a very nice book called "Laufer Reports." What you were saying, it's in the book. All this stuff you were saying, both Batić and Ceda Jovanovic, it's all written down, back in 2001, 2002. Then you have that beautiful book Cane Frog. All mentioned, the ones you say "network." It's all right. You haven't mentioned Covic yet. I'm just surprised. Expand a little to Covic as well. He's not that much without any responsibility for that. Remember, Ceda ordered from France – tell Covic to be calm, the post of Prime Minister belongs to the DS. And it's written down. We informed the public in advance. As far as the SRS is concerned, we do not need the initiative of some citizens in view of what Obradovic has turned into amendments. He didn't need an initiative on the side either. That's something we've been pushing here for three or four years. Do you think our proposal for this amendment, this action of ours, is to free it from paying the value added tax, is strengthened by someone else joining the citizens' signatures? It's not reinforced, they don't see the citizens, they don't see the opposition, they don't see common sense, they've recorded it, there's so much balance that has to be the end of the story. You don't even wonder about the MPs of power. I know 90% of you think about it – and the government doesn't accept this. I know. You know how it is here. Here counts the height of democracy 126 votes. In the Federal Assembly, Radoman Bozovic once spoke – I have 70 votes to declare the country a quarter. That's what the man was talking about. Nothing behaves better than Dulic. He needs 126, and the tunnel's gonna dig. Where'd he get the money for the tunnel, and there's no money for the kids? How did you find the money for the tunnel now? Where? Where did they find the money for the tunnel? You don't have that policy. It's a shame to talk politics with you. What kind of policy? Where's some analysis, where's some study, where's some vision, where's the ideological setting for something you're suggesting? No ideological setting, "drp" system. Pure "drp" system. Everything in time describes as far as the SRS is concerned. In many books, we have said what will happen to Serbia, which kind of elemental disaster. There she is. This argument, it's a perfectly normal thing, it's internal positioning to trick voters, and apparently this one's not informed, but he's good, and they say -- these are effective, God-knows-what. They are chasing towards Europe, and Europe has set a wall for us, has not turned its back, has set up a wall, only you won't tell the people. These solutions you suggest do not exist in this form on the globe of the Earth. He's insinuating. Zarko Obradovic told you nicely at the beginning, which recommendations, which committee of ministers. That doesn't apply in the European Union. You want me to give you one piece of information? It is said that the Mastricht Summit decided that up to 3% of the gross social product could finance the deficit of a country's budget. Dinkic boasts three percent all the time. The Germans and the French have been 5% for years, they don't care at all, they don't care about any recommendations or anything. Is that what we're talking about in the European Union? No one can even mention it and not think about it, but every nonsense in Western Europe here represents a standard. And then these reporters, the buzzards, pick up, and then they go, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, the big news is, side news. Here you see today, today we're gonna talk, there's probably three laws where there's a violent push of standards based on something that's not ratified here, and these are pushing. Why? It's their mission. There is no constitution before their task, there is no law, there is no general principles, there is no standard, because they are Democrats and when they say that. Sonja Licht is setting up, say, the president of the Indji Municipality. Let me remind you, in 2000, when he and Marjan Rističević argued over those couples from G17, what was to be brought, so now his mother with Sonja Licht is a good friend and the boy became neither guilty nor due president of the municipality. It is a way of progress in the democratic bloc, no election will of citizens, no party structures, so politics, so positioning, etc. You saw for yourself, he was an OTPOR – a Democrats tomorrow. Bio Civilian Alliance – Tomorrow Democrats. It was this party, CESID, he's gone. Just to fool citizens and among other things, that this government doesn't see babies, doesn't want babies, babies aren't desirable. You can see for yourself that babies are not desirable for a democratic bloc. On what basis is this being concluded? Based on the bill and the fact that such amendments are not accepted. So, there are two concrete evidences for this claim, the appearance of the bill and the government's behaviour towards a single amendment that probably 99.9% of Serbian citizens support, and they cruelly, that's what it is, says the killer of a child's face. Dead cold, dignified, like, it doesn't touch them at all. Look at the way they're standing, it's funny, and I care about them laughing. I do everything from this pay phone to make them laugh and this camera shows them laughing. Then people say, "He convinces him of children's diapers, and he laughs, and I didn't lift my finger and make him laugh." Just laugh. I don't see a different way for citizens to get close so they can just organically understand what a fela, what a policy it is. What finger? Is he supposed to get up to laugh or shouldn't he? What do you insult when your minister laughs? He's got his finger up, so far he's just Micko laughing, and now I see it's become an infection. Citizens of Serbia can't get past anything that's normal! Why? It's promoting abnormally.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3765	The word has been given by MP Svetlana Kitić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3766	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, I wanted to speak as a People's MP, but my mother worked in me. You all know me as a top athlete, but I'm also a mother of three. Now I address you in my name and in the name of all mothers who are and who would like to be, because I know very well what it means to be a mother and to raise three children. With your attitude, I think you have a direct impact on the ethnicity in Serbia. If you didn't know, Serbia is one of the ten oldest nations on the planet. If you continue on this path, it seems to me that on these computers, for which you took off your taxes, there will be no one to work for. I think the state of Serbia should help not leave Serbia's families with complete child care, if we know all that. So, Mr. Minister, you should know this, too, crying to the children, Mr. Minister, is the most beautiful music for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3767	The word has been made by MP Rajko Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3768	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Union of Roma Serbia supports the initiative of NGOs and the amendment submitted by the SPS, because I believe that humanity is manifested in the best and most complete way in terms of children, unprotected and powerless persons. For me, it's not just a percentage here, because the topic of protecting things that are meant for children, it's a political philosophy of society, state and government, and since there are biologists and doctors here, there's a term that was very well formulated by Eric From, it's a biophilic character of one policy, and this particular fact is that the lack of understanding is expressed by what is basic, which is a question of life. I'm surprised some who supported this amendment were characterised as a social demagogy. Please, we need to know the definition of the law, that by definition the law is an expression of general will, but every law must be consistent with the principles of the mind, and if one law is not in line with the principles of the mind, then that law is not worthy of calling the law. We had a few days ago about this and a speech on the protection of talents in Serbia, and I completely agree with Mr. Rajko, my denominator, that in Serbia, and perhaps in the province, even the empirical data shows, he has the most brilliant children. Take Leskovac or various other areas. They're geniuses. If this country has no understanding for these people then, of course, it can have a drastic impact on the development, first of all, of our country and let's not forget that, when it comes to development, the population policy takes the lead in this policy. Finally, given that the case of Ivan Stambolic was mentioned here, I only have to say a few words for human reasons, because the late Ivan Stambolic was my personal friend, and his brothers Milos and Vukasin were still my friends. It is not only that Ivan Stambolic was kidnapped on the day his daughter was born and killed, but the entire family of Ivan Stambolic was destroyed. I therefore appeal to also establish the political reasons for this kidnapping and murder, because based on the data available and it is now known that his murder was planned on 8 August 2000 and even one of the team, according to his brother Vukasin, will write a book about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3769	The word has a National MP Tatomir Bakovic, I apologize, first Veroljub Arsic and then Miletic Mihailovic. The SRS has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to this amendment asking for a tax exemption for babies and children up to 10 years of age, it is not the first time, Mr. Minister, for this House to discuss this. Since 2001, when amendments and additions to the Law on the Transport of Goods and Services were made, the same amendments were invested by the SRS. Then there was your mentor's explanation, and in the people known as "God Derikoz," that there were various abuses when it came to baby food, diapers, clothes and baby shoes. We have now heard here, too, that there have been various abuses from MPs who support this government, so some MPs have even claimed together with the minister, and the minister has claimed that the confection for children can be carried by the Government of Divac, and now we hear MPs who claim that there are babies of 100 kilos. That's the problem, Mr. Minister, which is just a variety of excuses for not accepting an amendment like this, even that story about how you're saying it's not covered by what's meant. I'll just remind you, when you released the sales tax on goods and services for computers in 2002, the Ministry of Sublegal Act determined what "hardver" and what "softver" was, so in this case you could do the same, and that's no problem at all. Is it going to disrupt your budget? That's not a problem either, Mr. Minister. You can make transitional and final provisions of the law, so you will say – the provision of this law applies and applies from 1 January 2008. The first time you rejected these amendments in 2001, and in 2003, Mr. Minister, the proposal of the Government, and the author was Bozidar Djelic, your mentor and amendments to the SRS from 2001, put the amendments to the Law on Transport of Goods and Services, because you knew that early elections were coming in 2003. You wanted to change the tax policy, because before that, you introduced a tax on everything except the air, to gain the trust of another electoral body. I'm sure, as the end approaches and this government, as the new elections get closer, you'll certainly make changes and additions to the law on value added tax and to free this up, just to draw another vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3771	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3772	Mr. Dulic, like every MP in this room, I have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I don't know why you're ignoring me, if you want me to read article 226, which means...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3773	There's no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3774	There's no need, then all right. I'm looking for an explanation from Mr. Secretary of Finance and I think you'll allow me to ask him, I have the right to do so. Mr. Minister, as I understand you, and I just heard from my colleague Obradovic, you just spoke for this speaker to support the initiative to free children's equipment from taxes, but you do not support the amendment that suggests it is regulated. What's that supposed to mean? Mr. Minister, you probably don't know what you want. You're up for it, but you won't do it. Why won't you do it? Because that amendment was filed by the SRS or the SPS. Your excuse for that is, you're against the amendment, because then you would release those who have money to pay that tax. One thing must be clear to you – food and equipment for children is mandatory because children have to feed and grow. You know they have to separate those who don't have that option, but they just have to have it. What do you do with the refusal of this amendment, so what does Mr. Finance Minister do with supporting the initiative and rejecting this amendment? You force all those who have to pay that tax, you force all those who don't, and they have to pay that tax, because, of course, the equipment for children is a priority. The scariest thing is that by refusing the amendment, you're preventing the birth of children for those who can't handle it financially. So you directly influence and prevent the rise of birth in our country. You directly support the problem that is affecting our state of Serbia, and this problem is – the white plague. You, Minister, fight, not against the white plague, but for the white plague of your behavior. Mr. Minister, you're in your age, and you probably don't plan on having kids. Mr. Minister, I plan and plan many in this room, all young people in Serbia plan to understand each other, to live and have children that is a real fortune, and many do not have that possibility because of financial problems and financial burdens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3775	Time, Mr. Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3776	Mr. President, one more minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3777	You can't get a minute, how do you think you get a minute?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3778	Will you let me finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3779	Here, finish the sentence you started.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3780	Thank you, Mr. President, and this is your business, I suppose. You, instead of fighting it, are still suppressing your behavior and your influences, I mean those parents who don't have that financial opportunity. You know, Minister, the wisest thing is that all the money you've gotten unfairly, and there's a lot of it, you best give it to all the young couples in Serbia who plan to have children...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3781	You're running out of time for the Rules of Procedure, and thank you. You're done, and you've got a minute more than you've got in the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, and then on the amendment another minute of the SPS, MP Miletic Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3782	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I just want to point out one more time, and I've already pointed out all of this, and I think there's a new population in our society, which is a population of 400,000 people who represent 200,000 sterile marriages, or families who can't wait to have their child. I believe that on behalf of them, and as a urologist by profession, I can say that of those 200,000 people, I believe that 90% of them cannot achieve what is called assisted fertilisation, what is called several thousand euros, because that is what this fertilization costs for a sterile marriage. I believe that, given that the state can do as much as 1,000, as many of them can do this insemination on its own cost, that those who eat and get that money might be in debt and manage to have a long-awaited child, believe that the reduction, the elimination of VAT, would mean a lot, or as far as further costs are concerned, or further care of children. What I can suggest to Mr. Minister, and what someone has already suggested, seems to me, if there is not enough resources, or if there are no items from where it could be taken, so here it is, the National Investment Plan, because if we take a man as one of the greatest national interests, then there must be another greater interest, which is the birth of a child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3783	Thank you. National MP Miletic Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3784	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs, this question is very important, and it only speaks of the approach and way of thinking when we talk about such an important essential matter. It's just the starting point that you need to get rid of value added tax one part of our population or one layer of people who raise children talking about how those in power think. One positive approach to this thing would say, in fact, that the future of this country is essentially being considered. Of course, however, there is no such thing. So, I'd just say one thing that we've heard here, Mr. Minister, from you, is that moving or adopting such amendments, very important, does not fit into what is fiscal capacity, but the adopted Budget Law, which says that we then missed the order of consideration of all of this. In fact, it was then necessary to discuss the laws, i.e. amendments supporting the Budget Law, and now the question is at all what is the purpose of considering these amendments if they cannot change, or cannot be adopted in such a form because it does not allow fiscal capacity but the adopted law. The order of consideration was to be set differently, which was certainly a job and a proposing but also a president of the Assembly. (President: Time. ) Just in the end, the inaccuracy of the amendment speaks against the need to adopt it, but why then there are sublegal acts that the government can adopt, such as regulations, normatives, conclusions, etc. Therefore, anything can be done if needed. Just to finish, I could have used the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's correct here by the ruling coalition, or some MPs to talk about obstruction, demagogy, an anachronic story when it comes to such amendments as children, which concern Serbia's future, because it actually speaks of them if they contradict that way. When the Socialists were in power in the industrial zone in Pozarevec, there were 5,000 people who went to work every morning and 5,000 people who were returning from work, and today there are about 500 of them during the time and, called the democratic authorities, which was spoken of by Mr Matic of the DSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3785	About the amendment, another minute for the SRS, Dr. Pai Momchilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3786	Ladies and gentlemen, here, let's try to tell you in a minute. We absolutely support this amendment. We heard someone say, "The government doesn't have a position." She's got it, he's negative, let's get it straight. However, someone mentioned the question of what we choose to be or have for that one. Do we want to make that profit matter or do we want to make it human and human? The question is what effect we're going to have. Well, maybe we won't just have the use of this big effect, but we're going to show that human attitude, that's absolute, and we need to take the first step. Just two more things to tell you, you're obliged to accept this if you're responsible and if you have consciousness and conscience. Why? The UN's Millennium task is for the next decade to decrease by half the mortality of children up to five years of age. By the mortality of children, we do not stand so great when compared to developed countries in Europe. This way you're preventing us from reducing that mortality the way we've been assigned on a global planetary level. Therefore, this provision, if you do not adopt it and if you do not stand behind it, shows clearly your position. You are to keep our infant mortality rate and children up to five years of age unchanged. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3787	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Stupar. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Dusan Stupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3788	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is normal for you to express the government's position in the reasons you give for amendments that you do not accept, but the essence is this: firstly, since you are talking about analyses, analysts, you who say you are for Europe, for Euro-Atlantic integration, for accession, first you should have told the MPs when we submitted amendments to what it looks like in this Europe, in the EU, what kind of parliament's relationship there to the opposition. Is it possible for the SRS parliamentary group to submit so many amendments without adopting any amendments? What we know, in Europe, the opposition when it submits amendments, it aims to improve these amendments, and it is certain that between 20% and 30% of the amendments are accepted in that Europe. As far as the amendments are concerned, we've seen exactly what kind of relationship you've had in the last hour. As far as tax goes, VAT goes to the computer. You're saying you're going to cut the tax on the purchase of computers. On the one hand, ever since you came to power for children who needed to be able to have free schooling, the state has financed every child who regularly passes exams, that the state allows them to practically buy a computer, because our goal is to have children who are educated, educated, to stay in our country. Since you came to power school is paid, master's studies are paid, doctoral dissertation is paid. Tell me, who are you helping here? As far as this Computer Act is concerned, let's look at the bill that says this - today a solid computer for students costs about 500 euros, with a 18% tax it is 590 euros, with a tax reduction you practically save 50 euros to one family. Well, whoever raised 550 euros won't be a problem for him another 40-50 euros to buy that computer. But you're doing another thing. Practically, as with the law about buying the first apartment, you allow a group of your people who belong to you, your clans, to earn even more money there. You don't do anything here in the interest of the citizens. I'll explain to you the amendment regarding the purchase of the first apartment and the investment at all. As for the purchase of the first apartment, look at the government’s explanation. Have you, gentlemen, read this at all? It's about Article 8, but as far as it's concerned, Mr. Minister, I'm talking a little bit about other things. He says: "The operation of a voluntary pension fund management company in accordance with the regulations governing voluntary pension funds and pension plans, tax policy needs to be stimulated primarily by productive action. The development of the financial market is important, but at this point it is not economically justified to continue the tax audit over other actions and favour investment funds." What do you say, as Government, in your explanation? So, an analysis of the effects of the law, and on page 10, you say, "Who and how will most likely be affected by the solution in the law? "Collegiate MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, look at the explanation. Page 10, point 4 – Who will be affected by the solution in the law? ''Employers, taxpayers dealing with investment building of apartments, since the introduction of a tax relief for the purchase of the first apartment is expected to increase demand for apartments'. Excuse me, please, what does this have to do with anything? Practically, you're introducing your tycoons. Look at every local self-government, look who's walling there. So, through law, you give them the opportunity to gain even more capital. Second, page 11. – is the law supporting the creation of new operators on the market and market competition? "The law supports the creation of new businesses, especially business entities dealing with investment building of apartments, which should also contribute to reducing the number of unemployed." You temporarily reduce the number of unemployed, because this is not a 12-month production, the construction has its own period, during the summer there is something walling. So this is exactly what you wanted, as Miskovic now got the opportunity, a little bit of everything he was doing in Serbia, and now you've made it possible for him to build a wall, to have even more capital. Through this, he practically won complexes in New Belgrade. You who hold the government there have allowed them to become even bigger tycoons, even bigger richers. How – through the law. Does this law say, is this state serious? Who makes the house for the first time in their lives? This is where you say it'll apply to everything. That's not true. Here it's just saying, "at the purchase of the first new apartment." So you're just pushing for the construction of new apartments. Why can't a young couple buy an apartment that was built 10 or 15 years ago? According to this, it's not about them, it's about buying a new apartment. Finally, page 11 of the last paragraph says, "In particular, we point out that the Ministry of Finance additionally provides transparency." What kind of transparency is that? Since 2001, you've mostly said everything will be transparent. What does transparency mean? For Serbian citizens, it is transparency for ordinary people that this is invisible. Wherever you were doing something, it wasn't transparent. Practically, it's only visible to you, because only you know what you've done in these six years, where the money's gone and what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3789	The word is from the MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3790	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable citizens, I felt the need to report first and foremost on this amendment as a mother. If we're already trying, and if we're going to get into Europe, I have to say from my own experience, and I think that's what's most accurate. I'm the mother who gave birth to two children in Holland. I've lived in the Netherlands for five years, and I have to say that the moment I left the O.R. both the first and second time, in a room that's perfect, there's a hospital building on one envious level, I absolutely had everything for the baby, whether it's a mother who's breast-feeding or maybe a mother who doesn't have milk, so she can't at first feed the baby that way. So, in every hospital in the West, in Europe, in the Netherlands, and even in America while I lived, as in Turkey, I have to say, there's a locker containing Frisoleak, that's our "Humana" or substitute for mother's milk, there are countless diapers that you can use at any time, and even there's everything that a woman needs after childbirth, so she can handle this post-operative period, or, if she was born normally, that period after the birth of a child. So if we want to get into Europe, and I think we're all including the better and better lives of our children, I absolutely think we should support young people, in the sense that they're being created and made easier, in order to make a decision on an increased number of children as soon as possible. You can meet very few pregnant women on the street, which is devastating for all of us. Believe me, when I see a pregnant woman, I'm surprised and I'm truly happy. I think we should be more flexible in this, and we should agree on some of the most important things, that parks should be full of children, happy children, healthy children and children, which, above all, society will take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3791	There are five minutes left for the SRS parliamentary group. The word has been made by the MP Mr. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3792	The VAT law and Article 8 with an amendment that, in fact, extends the circle of tax exemptions for financial transactions, so to speak, speaks of the consistency of this government and also enables me to be consistent in the criticism of the government. The request for investment funds in their tax-free services is highlighted in the White Paper, a book of foreign investors whose interests, above all, are managed by the government. On page 22, through the Investment Funds Act, the finance minister, regardless of who the minister is, he was remarked that the high cost of trading in capital markets, including unfavourable transaction taxation, followed by a recommendation that the tax liabilities of investment funds should be reduced as part of a general effort to boost the financial market. Dear Serbian citizens, I have no objection to the financial market being stimulated, but at a time when you have a growing current account deficit, when you have the kind of credit expansion that we have, do we really lack only financial speculation as a need to blow up and invent a profit that doesn't exist? At a time when you have crowded cafes of young people sitting and not working, and when they call it an untapped potential called human labor, what should we, as a society, use as a potential to create new values? Can we manage that selfishness that rises to virtue, as Adam Smith says, "private interest will lead to general interest"? That's not true. That simply, by definition, is not true, because selfishness that is guided by its own interest cannot lead to a general improvement. Evidence of this is the affairs of Ward Koma, Enerona, the world's largest companies involving the world's largest companies, banks, accounting firms and audit institutions. For citizens, to translate into the simplest language, inflating stock values, actions, by managers whose profits are ahead of conscience, does not increase social wealth or profit. It's only possible in a country called the United States and it doesn't have to produce goods to make money. It's because they can print dollars that someone accepts as value, whether gold or gold is behind them or not, because it's a cover that was abolished in 1971, because that currency is the value of a five-dollar, or oil. It's the only state that can make it without producing anything. Everyone else has to produce so they can get something in exchange in return. We must not allow ourselves to manage the EU directive and the requirements of foreign direct investment, i.e. the investor who manages the profits ahead of our conscience, to stimulate brokers and managers as the best paid professions. We must not allow ourselves to convince anyone that anything can be created from nothing. By blowing up action, by blowing up stock markets, we will not create new values. Just to prove to you that for this initiative in front of the SRS, I am in principle, not because the stock market participants are a variety of speculative funds and owners who make a mess, pick up a truck, and get lost, and that dear citizens are the same people, the ones who are always the winners of the stock market. You know, the biggest number of losers is among the rest of us. I am not handling this logic, and I am not managing myself, I will tell you that I support the work of voluntary pension funds and I will talk about it within one of the following amendments, because one of them is the founder, here present, my esteemed colleague, Mr Vlahovic, as "Eki Investment", although I do not support his activity and the work of his colleagues in some other areas, in this area of voluntary pension funds and management I support them. And if it's moral to sit here and get permission from the People's Bank, so set up the first pension fund, guaranteed as the fourth to be founded in this country and predicated to cover 20% of the capital, that's what a citizen will appreciate, not me. In terms of supportive action, I'll speak in the next report.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3793	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 11 in front of the SRS. Article 11(1) of the amendment reads - deleted. The majority of the assembly will say, mostly the SRS submits amendments and reads: "It is deleted". This member and attitude 1 do not say free to delete, simply for the reasons the Ministry and the Government are trying here. obligors who pay VAT that have so far been cobwebs up to a limit of two million are now rising to four million. Anyway, I can only explain the situation where you, Mr. Minister, have helped a lot of that to have a lot of cobwebs in the state, for reasons of incorrect privatisation and company sale, where people have lost their jobs and where they have to deal with various kinds of business, i.e. opening of purchases, etc. some small businesses. Mostly in election campaigns, when you run an election campaign, then your mouth is full of the prosperity of small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. But when it comes to imposing people like that who can barely survive and when they have to pay in a month's VAT or after three months, they panic. There is a general collapse in the state, a lot of accounts are then blocked and there are a lot of such things and difficulties in business, especially in these small and medium-sized enterprises. Now with this law you want to raise that limit to four million. I ask the question, which is the target group of operations, i.e. People who do business that will raise that limit to four million? What kind of malfeasance is there and what is behind this law? What is the target group of those privates who need to raise it to four million? In my opinion personally, and in the SRS' view, these are not target groups, these are certain groups of people who will be able to and will be given greater malversion now in business. That's what I'm convinced of. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to take an explanation, where you've even made a mistake, i.e. The administration has mistaken my last name, take it and read your explanation for why you rejected this amendment that I have submitted. I'd like you to go out for a pay phone and explain what's speeding up, and what's not being accelerated by this amendment that I've made. You've counterwritten or otherwise understood my amendment. I'd like you to go out for a pay phone and explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3795	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has the People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3796	The amendment of counterpart Dragana Zivkova-Jaje talks about proposing an increase in the lower limit of total traffic on the basis of which the possibility of an opposition to entering the VAT system is obtained. Indeed, I find it pointless to explain the government in the following sense – if it is about taxable products, not about those who are not taxed or are in the system of liberation, all these small ones, and to call them small, traffic participants are already in one way discriminated because VAT bonds are reluctant to work with them, because their input VAT cannot be a refutable item. So we're talking about products that are taxed. Large companies, large public enterprises, those with state participation or the majority participation of state capital representatives, and shareholders are companies, do not have to have unforgiving state capital. In implementing the public procurement system, they are reluctant to work with such firms. So it's already narrowing down the circle of those they can deal with. On the other hand, those who have so far had a limit of two million represent a group of entrepreneurs and legal entities dealing with various kinds of activities, and in the public they are called cobwebs. So there's one group of doctors, dentists, private lawyers, so marketing agencies and service companies that remain out of the proper control of this bill, and that's why you don't speed up, but you're encouraging malfeasance and manipulation, because they're not going to have a fiscal cash register, not an account, not an individual account, to encourage them to show each of the services they've done, but on the contrary, they're going to have some lump sum to pay taxes. So, not a flat tax, but a flat-rate tax on certain traffic, which sends you a clear message that the agencies of this guy, the various houses of this guy through which it's very easy to turn money from legal flows, have a wider space for work. What I'm saying is, this is a request from some who are close to you, this is not a request from foreign investors, this is neither an EU directive. It's not true that they have that net tax obligation smaller, this is simply enabling, that is, to respond to the demands of some who ask you to, and that is not even a group of entrepreneurs, these are neither craftsmen, nor those whose actions we want to encourage, but rather, a large number of those you allow to operate in the gray traffic zone. What I support in total with this law is to enable the development of voluntary pension funds and funds for managing them. We as a society if at this time we do not need financial speculation on the stock exchange, which you showed us at the time of the election of Tomislav Nikolic and called it a practice – a showcase, showed that one incident, one directed incident, could lead to actions that otherwise had a seasonal rest and seasonal decline, as many of them came out of a maximum 300% increase, can in fact be a great polygon for political games, when it comes to these kinds of financial manipulations. When it comes to pension funds, we as a society, both the first and the third pillars, must develop in parallel, but what is not good and what is generally not good, Mr. Minister and for you, and for your colleagues, is that you talk all the time about privatising public enterprises. One of my colleagues talked today about the state not being a good businessman and the need to get her out of this activity. If the state can't take care of the citizens and their interests, what do we do? If anyone ever spoke, we'll get the Chinese to work for you. We'll bring in some Chinese guys to hang up a tag board that represents what resource. It's offensive to the citizens, and to the employees, and to the government, such an aspect of observation. The state has to worry about privatising and preserving its resources. He mustn't rush to give the last insurance companies he has privatises, so he's handing them over to other countries through mixed companies. You know exactly what I'm talking about. I am talking about the future privatisation of the DDOR, where Triglav will reportedly appear to be a very significant owner of the Slovenian state. What we do not look up to them for is to preserve state participation in important and very important corporations, companies, companies, which are strategic not because they produce strategic weapons, but because they are used as strategic weapons in the fight against our people. Simply, I ask you, when you establish pension funds and give permission, keep in mind that this firm is a guarantee founded by Mr. Vlahovic with one percentage of participation, it registered on 16 November. The owner is 99% of the "First Indigenous Society" from Ljubljana and is the founder with 99%. Dear citizens, Mr. Vlahovic has a word and has paper. I show him the law, he tells me – he's not. I'm speaking from the Register of Structured Structures. It's nothing controversial. I'm just about to score, and I don't deserve a round of applause, but I'm about to deserve someone to think more seriously about these phenomena. Mr. Vlahovic is co-owner of the "Equiinvestment" and is with 1% founder of this new pension society. What did he invest? He invested a minimum on the establishment of a fund of this kind and such a fund is a million euros, and 10,000 euros is not a meaningless sum, but it is not impossible to earn it. It's interesting that someone here rented political influence and the possibility of obtaining a license under strict rules, and it's not a value that he invested 1%, but its unquestionably political influence and it's questionable for us as a society. I have one more detail. There's a group of people I personally respect as experts. However, it is simply unbearable for the market economy to have one and the same team of people head the boards of financial houses, sports companies and media houses. From stock market, media, businesses, to sports organizations, the same people. Do you allow me to read it, it's a public document? Here is a member of the management and management board Pava Zečević. It is the wife of Mr. Danko Djindjic whose name appears in both the second and third districts, with one and the same team of people in all these areas. Do you know what's controversial? It is a dispute when training is organised for new managers in the field of financial services, precisely in pension and investment funds, with a very limited number of participants, 10 or 15, the right to apply and be participants and to be elites in the financial area have people in the "Eki Investment" and "Altis" and in those houses. You'll get the document that I'm proving and that's the information that can be found on the site of the first of these trainings that have been done for this area. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3797	Thank you. The word is Alexander Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3798	Thanks for the applause. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. President, I find it really interesting sometimes to listen to Mrs. Tabakovic, as she announces the ordinary facts as spectacular things. Ordinary facts that the whole public knows, and it would be about like I would say, "Imagine, please, it's over 30 degrees outside." Imagine in June of the month over 30 degrees. Now I'm going to tell you what the whole public knows. So what Mrs. Tabakovic said is true when it comes to the facts relating to the "Garant" pension fund. She left out some details. It's that he's a strategic partner, and I've listened to you very carefully, and I'd like to give you full information. It is true that the pension fund was granted permission from the National Bank after meeting its requirements prescribed by the law and that it was founded by the First Retired Society, which has 99% ownership and the Eki Invest has 1%. For those of you who do not know, "The First Retired Society" is the largest voluntary pension fund in Slovenia and since six months ago, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has entered with 25% into the ownership of "The First Retired Society" and otherwise operates in more than six countries. What's my impact on the development of the Guarantee Pension Fund? I'll only give you one example. A month and a half ago, a tender for voluntary retirement insurance was completed in the post office. As you know, the Post Office is a public enterprise, and if anyone wants to have an impact, they'll probably have the biggest effect in state-owned enterprises. I'll tell you what the results of the tender are: to join employees in voluntary pension funds. "Delta Generali", which is called a voluntary pension society, received some 5.5 thousand employees, "Dunav" also got about 5.5 thousand employees, "Rajffeisen" pension fund received over 3.5 000 employees, and "DDOR" got over 2.5 000 employees, "Garant" pension fund got 157 employees and "New Ljubljanska Banka" got about 30 employees. So much for my influence. So it's completely pointless here based on semi-information and based on something that is ordinarily known to build some kind of conspiracy theory. By the way, all that I'm doing through a company where I'm co-owner, all the activities, and all the activities are informed of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and everything is in accordance with the law. So in no way did I, nor did my firm in any way participate in the violation of any law or enter any conflict of interest. There's no point in answering countless and a bunch of really pointless accusations, as we heard a few days ago when we had a budget debate and how I participated in negotiations with the London Club, which is simply not true. Neither I nor any of the colleagues you mentioned except at one point the Minister of Finance and by the way, the agreement with the London Club of Trustees was reached in the term of the previous government, not in the term of the government of Dr Zoran Djindjic and later Zoran Zivkovic, as is a pure demagogy of investment funds. It is investment funds that allow citizens to avoid the risk of their own investment and make their own investment decisions through brokers. Just in support of investment funds means less risk for citizens if they want to invest money in securities of value. I wish we had more investment funds at this point, because surely the value of this investment unit would be much greater than individual citizens' decisions, when they really put themselves at great risk. Let me show you that I speak with arguments, I can only completely agree that the financial market is extremely overheated and that the value of many actions is overrated. It is certain that this does not correspond to reality, but I am also sure that with more participants in the financial market, especially investment funds, this real balance, on the otherwise shallow and underdeveloped financial market, will be achieved much earlier than if these investment funds are not available. It's really, I'm telling you right now, I don't want to go out and answer any pointless criticism or anything that doesn't have anything to do with the fact. I am truly prepared to, at any moment, not to you, but to the citizens of Serbia, on all the activities, and when I was in the government of Dr Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic later and after the government and today when I am a national MP in this Parliament and tomorrow and in 10 years and in 15 years, I speak of all that I have done in the previous period and I have no problems with it. What I'm having problems with, I'm having problems with one huge demagogy, with a really demagogue policy that's not often good and hears about this pay phone, because it really doesn't make sense to get into the eternal controversy with facts against the facts or distorted conclusions, based on some of the chosen facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3799	Thank you. Replica, MP for the People's Republic of Jorvanka Tabakovic. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic used the time of his parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3800	Not a single fact, Mr. Vlahovic, which I brought out neither you nor you can challenge. You can question the conclusions, and I'm telling the facts and I'm speaking my conclusions on behalf of those citizens that I'm here today. You can agree or disagree, but you can't twist what I said. You're renting your political influence, and conflict of interest is what the Committee on Conflict of Interest discusses. What Mr Djelic was doing and what Mr Pitic was doing, by being used, in fact, not applying members 161 and 162. The labour law, the no-competitive clause, that is, that you cannot provide information and information and secrets in which you have had a certain very responsible function to abuse is something that I would like to repeat to you with special satisfaction. Mr. Djelic will probably answer someday, and I hope he will soon. And the information about who negotiated with the London Club, I suggest you read in the number 'Economist', the signator is very appreciated, I appreciate the author Tanja Jakoba, then the journalist, today the spokesman for Governor, Mr Jelasic, at the moment he stopped being on the negotiating team, and Djelic was offered, and in the meantime, you will be replaced, and I will bring you as a friend to read it, abundantly with facts that are verifiable. You didn't personally negotiate at the London Club, but did you in any way deserve the position of a member of the UO "Erste" bank, at any other time. Now I want to give you an interesting fact. My paper's in my purse. You know I don't talk without paper. When someone who works in a paint store, I mentioned this example and I deliberately repeat it, takes with them a list of customers, and then calls them when he goes and says, "I opened my private company, come to me now to buy, and not where I worked, it's sanctioned, it's called "no discloser" clauses, you know, and it's said in a slangon term – who calls who. If the company he worked with proves that he called these people to be his new buyers now, he goes to court. But he says, "I have met them before, how will you prove that I have called them?" For you, Mr. Vlahovic, I have proof that when you left the seat of the finance minister, you notified all only successful companies at which addresses can find you for further and future contacts. It's called abuse of acquired influence for my private interest, I can show you that paper, and you know perfectly how many addresses it's gone to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3801	Thank you very much. Here you are, Aleksandar Vlahovic, according to the Rules of Procedure Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic. The Republic is decided by the President. Since Aleksandar Vlahovic was directly mentioned by Jorgvanka Tabakovic, it would be incorrect for him to let you go first. You'll get the word right after he finishes his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3802	I'm glad that Mrs Tabakovic now said that what she said Friday night was not true, and on Friday you explicitly said that I participated in negotiations with the London Club and that the negotiations allegedly were the reason for some argument between me and one of my colleagues, which is simply not true. Now I'm glad you said I wasn't involved. You know what, I believe that many in this country would be the best thing to do to make me disappear, to get out of here and be gone. I'm sorry, you'll have to watch me for four years, not four years, but a lot longer. As for any doubt about the conflict of my actions, I refer you to the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which solves it. As you referred to in your time, a few months ago, a request to the Committee to regulate certain issues that have raised suspicions of a conflict of interest, I now advise you to do the same with the Committee, I will no longer discuss it. In the end, I've forgotten what you said in the end about my membership at the Este Bank, I don't understand what the problem is. (Milan Skrbić, from the site: Conflict of Interest. The conflict of interest? Maybe in some creative interpretation of conflict of interest. So, as long as there is a Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and the Law, which we have brought together in this assembly, and I will remind you, the story of a conflict of interest, and even a pedantous cadence without having a potential conflict of interest, only the Government of Zoran Djindjic began. If I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Tabakovic, the government in which you sat was composed of the directors themselves who did not resign from their companies when they became ministers, starting with the then prime minister, Mr. Marjanovic, who was the parallel director of Progress. In the end, the rules of good behavior and my home education imposed on me, like when you moved, you had one home address and now you're moving to another place, then you don't say – I'm moving and I don't care, I don't want to inform anyone, but let all the acquaintances, all the friends, all the relatives, all the people you love, all the associates you've worked with. Also, when you leave one ministry and leave the Serbian government, from the executive government, you inform people of the address you will be at in the future. (Lowers from bench: I giro-account.) ) By the way, maybe that's what you're doing, sir, maybe you're leaving a jury account. I, my lords, have informed all acquaintances in March of the month 2004... (President: Time, Mr. Vlahovic. )......................................................................................................... when I left the government. I'm done. I will remind you that I founded the Eki Investment company together with Mr. Djindjic, i.e. I became a member of the company only in November of that year. So, theoretically, it wasn't possible to tell them – look for me at the address "Eki Invest", because I didn't exist in it at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3803	MP Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3804	Mr. Dulic, you're serially violating the Rules of Procedure when it comes to me. You know for a fact that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority over replication or anything else. That's what you've been applying, but when I answer, you just don't want to talk about tunnels right now, now I'm going to call member 104 and Mr. Vlahovic, who hurt that member. How did Mr. Vlahovic hurt that member? First, he came out to replicate, so you translated it later as a discussion of the DS about this amendment. So be it. He did not speak at all about the text of the amendment, nor about the member of the law, but tried somehow to please Jorgenka Tabakovic not to call him with papers, with laws, with evidence. And now he's continued to convince, but what's worth it. The paper says something can't change. He resorted to one ruse. He said, yes, everything you've read is true, but... but in translation it means VAT: Pitic, Vlahović, Dinkic. It's a good thing he mentioned capo di tutti capi, what's the name of that one of yours. And he's some president of some rowing society, the one in the Red Star, the one over there I don't know who, the one for skiing, etc. They've all set up. It is a group of people who are much closer to the board of directors of foreign investors than any Serb in Serbia. The network. They protect, command the financial market. Some times they put some technicians as a minister or governor, but that elite is there. She's been designed. Let me remind you, he's been training for 14 years. He's not such a bad student, so he had to go to another school for 14 years and learn how it ends on the financial market. They're very qualified for finance and other malfeasances. They're all over the place. To them DS serves as a cover, and he made G17 plus his own logistics, and this one went with foreign investors and through them, they meet in Hayat and discuss monetary policy, the tax system, the pension-inhabitation system, and then they recommend. They are exhibits, supervisors, and this group, there is still Milosavljevic, Djelic, Pitic, etc., they are extremely talented. They were chosen by Djunic, the chief. Danko chose them, they cruise through Serbia as some eagles, island to some part of the profit, where some of the profits are, there they are. Some times a pumpkin pops between them individually. Not now, for example. Why would I, like, do that? You know best when he shoots pumpkins. I'm not, Mr. Vlahovic, I'm trying to be a gentleman. I don't have to tell everything I hear in the hallway about the pay phone. Just something that has weight, in principle, we don't want to go into the details of who's angry with who, who took the bank from.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3805	There are two minutes left for the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go, amendment-proposer. The People's Messenger Milorad Buh. You have the right to a replica. The replica has the right of an authorised promoter, or representative of the SRS, and has the right of Yorvanka Tabakovic, who was mentioned. It's a straight line to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3806	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Mr. Vlahovic is growing in conflict of interest. First thing, here he spoke in the first performance for six minutes, and then four minutes later. It's a free commercial for all companies and agencies where he's co-owner or owner. He's abused DS time. You DS guys think about who you're giving space to to abuse this pay phone and advertise for free. What he has invested as a role in this 10,000-euro voluntary pension fund is probably less valuable than self-reclaming over the last 10 minutes. All together, let's think about who we're letting speak here. When we say injuries and conflict of interest, this is a thick conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3807	Here you go, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3808	Mr. Minister, about the amendment, what led you to increase your censorship? You can give one space. First of all, I'd like to know who voted you out for such a decision, because you know that in this category people usually belong next to lawyers and dentists and various agencies. Here's an example. Local self-government, for example, specifically for the City of Belgrade, for every secretariat when you address yourself as an entrepreneur or as a legal person for a license, you are instructed to an agency that will make you an emborate. Such agencies have seas. I'm going to give you another example from the time of the government of the City of Belgrade with SP and DS, the DSS, etc. the entire democratic bloc. To get consent that there is a traffic sign on that street, the Transport Secretariat referred you to its South Stin agency, which at the time took 2,000 marks, is now 2,000 euros. Why didn't you use this amendment to predict that this censorship would only be foreseen for production organisations, small workshops and craftsmen? This explanation of the EU country, you think we find it fascinating. Not at all. In these countries, there are strong esnafic organizations and chambers of lawyers, various of these agencies, who can draft a very successful law, and you are now doing so on the basis of individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3809	Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Amjad Migati. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible and the Government has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of Amjad Migati has a people's messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3810	This amendment is logically related to the previous amendment. We at the SRS are surprised why you increased the price for paying VAT, because, I remind you, you were earlier, or Mr Dinkic when he was minister, he said even taxi drivers, for example, at the market, would enter the VAT system. We really want everything to be open, clear and loud. Why? Because when we increase the number that's in the VAT system, then there's a chance that the VAT percentage will be reduced from 18% to 14%. The more users, the more they pay that system, the more countries have money. But here you create space for some strange company, like, to improve the VAT system. It's amazing that lawyers, when we know their services are very high, taxi drivers can get into the VAT system when they can't be compared to lawyers. That's why it wouldn't be good for us to raise that threshold here. We should try to get everything together to get into the VAT system, all clear, loud, clean. That's how it could be, that percentage to be reduced. The winning tax system should then be activated when the VAT system is reduced. That's logical, not what you said. You keep saying you want everything to be transparent, you don't want crime, corruption. But here you open up space, I don't want to get into it, whether it's random or intentional, for such corruption, for such a avoidance to pay for VAT. You know, the people you're covering with the cobwebs you know that they make very good money a year, not just two million or four million, much more than that, but they're still going to show that it's only three or four. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr Dinkic, at the time when he explained why taxi drivers should pay VAT, said they cannot be excluded from others, all must be equal before the law. How do you explain this with article 21. The Constitution? This group of people who make up to four million a year don't have to get into that system. For example, what about the one who owns a small store, which has a turnover of less than four million a year, has to be in the VAT system. It really doesn't make sense. They're all the same in front of the law. So it would be good to think about it one more time, to get back to the original, two million, so that even later, even there, the system of cobwebs, wouldn't exist in the tax system at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3811	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milorad Buha has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 28a be added. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the purpose of my amendment is to specifically consider the responsibility of the tax administration, which is required to carry out a very serious task relating to the collection of value added tax. We envisioned the budget, the budget was adopted a few days ago, that based on the resources of natural persons and legal persons, there would be a total of 270 billion dinars, representing about 46% of the budget or 3,300,000 euros, which in any case represents a very serious, comprehensive, tax administration task. In the Value Added Tax Act, we have no sanctions for the administration that enforces it. The purpose of my amendment is to install criminal provisions for an administration that is often unconscious, sometimes with the will to enforce, or does not enforce both this law and other laws. In this direction, the purpose of my amendment is to install in a certain way certain criminal sanctions for violations and commercial offences that the administration makes in the process of paying the value added tax. However, we must point out the numerous failures of this administration that has a double system, double arches in tax collection. Especially for those companies and companies that represent companies that are under the special political protection of some political groups, especially groups in power, who in some situations know that they protect large fish and direction, and in particular do so through inspection bodies, the attention of inspection bodies to smaller enterprises, medium and smaller enterprises, and then punish instead of large fish, large enterprises, which are the highest payers of value added tax, and we hang on to those companies that have been wrong or in the process or in the account, and the effects of the adverse impact of these small and medium-sized enterprises are far less than when the right control is carried out and when large companies would pay certain amounts of tax. When we talk about responsibility and influence, we must say, and I, in the context of my amendment, will point out that we must have and take into account certain experiences of the European Union. Here, the minister said at a budget debate, but said only a narrowed-down value added tax framework in the European Union countries. When we talked about rates, especially the general rate of 18% in our country, he mentioned only those countries in the European Union that have higher rates than in our case, or 18%. For public reasons, we must say that in the European Union, in harmonising the value added tax system, we have states that are independent in their fiscal policies, which have a lower rate of 15%. We'll mention the states, it's Luxembourg and Cyprus. We have 16% in Spain and Germany. We have to point out for public reasons that there are other rules. At a special rate, i.e. a reduced rate, all European Union directives have been going from 1977 in the direction of equalising and harmonising tax rates, and in particular at a reduced level of tax rates and the framework for the products concerned by those rates, so all the directives have requested equalisation and harmonisation in relations between five and nine, and I will now tell you how countries in the European Union apply it. We have Slovakia that has no special rate, or reduced rate. We have Denmark that also doesn't have a tax rate. We have Luxembourg that also doesn't have a tax rate, and we have Ireland that has 13.5% reduced rate and 21% overall rate. Regardless of all European Union legislation, certain pressures, the European Union countries, smaller and larger, are independently driven by fiscal policy. I am only saying this from one aspect, which we blindly carry out the tasks of the European Union, the IMF, the World Bank and all those who pass our country do our homework and we blindly do it. I call on the minister to consider, within the framework of my amendment, and especially within the framework of the SRS amendment, finding the best solution. We Serbian radicals are constructive in terms of finding a solution. Do not look at this party, seriously approach the consideration of our amendments, and you will certainly come up with good solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3813	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the meaning of the amendment submitted by the People's MP, Mr Buha, is that those who come to private entities and determine the price of VAT also have a responsibility, that there is also a responsibility from those, or those services from the administration, to come. And, of course, this amendment should be supported. However, I have answered and, of course, this amendment should be supported for something else. I received two answers to the parliamentary questions I had asked in one of the previous sessions. The answer to the parliamentary question delivered to me by the MUP, Mr Jocic, says: "We inform you that the police officers of the Republic of Serbia's MUP have filed a criminal report to the municipal public prosecutor's office in Novi Sad, against the owner and responsible person of the "Trizon" company, Mr Trifunovic Zoran, and an independent export reference and service processing and co-operation in the commercial sector of the "Otter oil" company, Novi Sad, Papoulin Branislava. 'These two 'criminal charges were filed on the basis of a member', etc. and 'named criminal charges', i.e. ''not covered by the commercial director of 'Rafineria' NIS Novi Sad, nor the responsible person in 'Rafineria' NIS Novi Sad, named Balać, as indicated in your act. ''Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Pera Pisar will be responsible for damageing the state by 10m euros, so NIS, and thus Serbia's state. "Trizon" came to trial with handcuffs, went out and let him go. How could "Trizon" get out of court and escape, who's responsible for what the "Trizon" is now abroad, instead of being in jail. Who allowed the "Trizon" to damage 10m euros, and we were already talking about how that mule was sold, and there was a supply of Hipo's bank. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not satisfied with the answer to the MP's question, because I did not ask for the arrest of "Peru Pisar" and that they filed a criminal report against him, but I asked that responsibility be determined and that criminal charges be filed against the commercial director of the "Rafineria" as the most responsible man. On the other hand, I'm asking what's going on with these criminal charges, why are they still at the level of criminal charges, what has the judiciary and the judiciary done about it? I received a reply from the Ministry of Investments, Minister Velje Ilic, where he replied that there was no clause in the law on which a commission could be taken, so by law he did not take a commission for the Horgos highway – Požega. I remind Serbian citizens that from Horgos to Novi Sad half the road has been built and that a toll is being charged in that part, that a complete highway has been built from Belgrade to Novi Sad and that tolls are being charged in that part. That the state of Serbia has raised 122m euros in credit for the Beska bridge. This, of course, Mr. President, doesn't count at the time, that it's made...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3815	Of course you count...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3816	Because I'm looking for a parliamentary question again, so this part doesn't count.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3817	Come on, let's talk about the amendment first, after Mrs Tabakovic answered, too, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3818	I'm done with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3819	Please, then leave the pay phone and talk about the amendment to Jorgenka Tabakovic, and then you get a new time as a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3820	Do you think in the meantime there will be some new explanation for this thieving that I've launched?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3821	I'm sorry you're not happy with the answer. Here you go, about the amendment to Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3822	Article 28 proposed a solution that prescribed fines that all those bonds that were in the VAT system, and now they will no longer be, make a list of states and assets and that what they used under the law, while VAT bonds were placed on paper and with the state cleared accounts. I absolutely don't mind. On the contrary, I'm in favour of a clean bill relationship. The amendment we have submitted has established the principle that we stand for, in international relations, in human relations, and above all in relations with the state, called reciprocity, or partnership with mutual respect. The state cannot prescribe criminal measures, that it determines a very high penalty interest for late payment of tax obligations, and that, on the other hand, it brings certain companies to a beggar stick, destroys families, and makes a lot of things ugly. It's not a hundred cases, but one in a table, one in an innocent gets hurt, the law doesn't make sense. So, for local self-government in these laws, you've provided for a fine in the budget, unless someone respects those restrictions relating to an increase in wages of over 10%, compared to the September moon. Have you established by any law an obligation for your competent authorities, institutions, financial officers or people employed by the IRS if they commit such a violation? We're asking for this amendment, not expecting you to adopt it as a solution, but simply to understand, the state can't just ask for responsibility, it has to be responsible on its own. I hold in my hand a single case which, with the judgment of the court, was summed up in a single newspaper text called "Bancrot of State", an honest worker of the tax administration led the procedure which remained a dead letter on paper, because to the people and companies that were seized the property, who were allegedly illegally charged with tax obligations, by the system – paid off and complained, and when the error was established by the court verdict, neither was the goods returned nor the money paid back to the taxpayer. What kind of state is this, what kind of attitude is it to people? While someone is not responsible for this, for doing this, this is the case from Backa Palanca, there are two, I don't expect tax authorities to do their job professionally or to do it objectively, but you can't do it when someone comes to you and who needs to compete in the public procurement process to say, you paid the profit tax, and you currently owe the company tax. That profit tax is paid in the amount of 100,000, and it owes you a few thousand and you say, you can't get confirmation that you've settled your taxpayers' obligations to the state. The fact that he is on one basis in the overpayment, and in the second, in a minus of far more insignificant, so there is a deadline for him and does not report public procurement, it is none of your business, but don't assure me that the institutions of the building, that the institutions don't think for themselves, because in the name of the institutions people do, and you represent the state, by tax authorities, you bring regulations to you. The SRS advises you, respecting those you support, respecting those who fill the budget register is a minimum of objectivity that is necessary and must once begin. I ask you to seriously consider this criminal provision which also brings tax authorities into a level of people who are not untouchable, unmistakable and what is most important are not above all other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3823	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3824	Article 226 states that the MP has the right to be informed. I'm going back to the parliamentary question where you interrupted me, Mr. President. By the way, I'll let you know that you've stopped this machine digging a tunnel from this building to that building, see what's going on while I'm done with this. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Velja Ilic replied that there is no member in the law who regulates how much commission he will take and analoguely he did not take a commission, nor does he know who took the commission. I ask the citizens of Serbia, I ask you, gentlemen Members of Parliament, if there is a semi-road from Horgos to Novi Sad, if there is a highway from Novi Sad to Belgrade, if there is a loan, so the funds are already in Serbia of 122m euros for the construction of the second bridge at Beška and if there is a toll collection that brings so much daily that the entire construction operation could be involved and worked, who is the one who got the concession on the finished highway and who has the right to rob the state for the next 33 years?- I'm sorry. In doing so, I don't mean those benefits that come just because the highway passes the permit to build gas stations, to motels, hotels that are usually built by highways, to auto-services, and one of the MPs said very well the other day that it cost and how much it cost. Such a concession is not given to a brother born unless he pays, as far as I know, Mr. Minister. Not if he doesn't pay the state, but if he doesn't pay in his pocket. As far as the answer is concerned, I'm not happy with each other, because Mr. Balać, as far as I have information, was the commercial director of the "Rafineries" New Now, at a time when all those scams were with "Trizon" and I ask, "Why wasn't that part investigated, why weren't criminal charges launched against the others who were in that set around "Trizon"? Why did the criminal charges filed remain at the level of criminal charges? Why are investigative actions not finished and why are these people not in prisons, but still perform very responsible functions in public enterprises and other institutions? Ladies and gentlemen, based on these answers to the questions I can only conclude one thing – almost everyone is in the game, I just don't know who gets what.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3825	Thank you. The National MP Ivana Zecevic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Ivana Zečević, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3826	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29 of this Law. This article in your bill reads: "The right to refund the VAT referred to in Article 22 of this Act can only be effected on the basis of a contract to purchase an apartment certified after the entry into force of this law. ''If my amendment were to be accepted, this Article 29 would read, 'the right to refund the VAT of Article 22 of this Law can only be achieved on the basis of an agreement on the purchase of an apartment certified after 1 July 2006'. Why do I propose a solution like this? Because this change puts a greater number of citizens in the same position before the law. By this law, or by amending the Law, you proposed in Article 22, "The right to refund the VAT for the purchase of the first apartment, on the basis of a submission, has a natural person – a full-time citizen of the Republic, with a residence in the territory of the Republic, who buys the first apartment. The buyer of the first apartment can refund the VAT referred to in Article 1, under the following conditions: 1) that from 1 July 2006 until the date of the purchase agreement, on the basis of which the first apartment was acquired did not have the property, i.e. the co-owned apartment on the territory of the Republic' and ''2) that the contracted price of the apartment with VAT was fully paid to the seller. ''Then, in Article 29 of this Law, you denied the right to refund VAT to all those who met the conditions under points 1 and 2, as you stated in Article 22 of this Act, so they certified the contract to purchase an apartment from 1 July 2006 to the day of today, or until the date of adoption of this law. In this case, if you give the right to refund VAT and those citizens who bought the first apartment and certified the contract last week or at any time, it means earlier than 1.7.2006 until today, means when we are going to adopt this law here in the Assembly, there would be no abuse, because these contracts have been realised without any calculations on the conditions for the right to refund this VAT. So it's assumed that no one could calculate in advance that this VAT would be returned to him. In his explanation, although the Legislative Committee said the amendment was legally possible, the government did not accept it because its provisions would have a return fact. Mr. Minister, your team that did this, you yourself set this date on July 1st, 2006, it's like some starting point taken here in this law and in the Law on property tax. In addition, in your explanation, you say that accepting this amendment would result in an unplanned return of money from the budget, which would have an effect on the revenues and expenditures of the users of the budget. However, what if we had passed this law earlier, if we had adopted it immediately after the Assembly was established, that it had been adopted for example. March of the month? I suppose these plans were made much earlier than today, and I don't think that would have any effect on the acceptance of this amendment. However, here you can see that you were essentially unfair to citizens when you promised them tax exemption, in this case it is possible to have the right to refund VAT, and on the other hand you are looking at the fact that the number of those people, citizens who will be able to apply for VAT refund, is reduced. We think this legal solution from the SRS is bad. Why? Because the possibility of returning VAT or vomiting VAT is selective. In this case, you know that VAT is only accounted for when buying a new apartment, so only those citizens who have opportunities, or some lucky people who have enough money to buy a new apartment, will have the opportunity to apply and get back, i.e. to return that amount of the calculated VAT. All those citizens who don't have enough funds or for some other reason, not to go into these discussions now, buy a used apartment, they don't have a VAT account, or have the opportunity to submit such a request. By buying a used apartment, you simply make a purchase contract when at the agreed price of the apartment you charge everything you need for the overu, which a citizen has to pay in the course of the contract and other obligations and on such a contract he is obliged to pay taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. Now, of course, you've predicted in this package of laws and a reduction in the tax on the transfer of absolute rights from 5% to 2.5%, and in this case you're for first-place buyers, so that would be now those used apartments, you've also predicted the release of that tax on the transfer of absolute rights of 2.5%, if this next law is further accepted. So, citizens aren't in the same position. Those who buy an apartment, which will mean after adopting this law, the possibility to apply for the return of an 18% VAT, and those citizens who buy the first apartment, but if they are used apartments, they will be practically released only from the tax on the transfer of absolute rights at 2.5%. Admit that the difference is large and therefore we think that this bill is selective and that citizens are not in the same position, so we thought that at least somehow the number of citizens who will be entitled to increase, when you have already provided for this legal solution to increase the number of citizens who will be entitled to return to VAT, by allowing them to submit a request to all those who have confirmed that contract from 1 July 2006, as you yourself predicted by your legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3827	The amendment was also reported by MP Zoran Krasic and then by Sasa Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3828	The reasoning of this amendment made it clear that this is not about the physical person who buys the first apartment and solves his living issue, but actually takes care of the construction mafia. It's this Miss Alibaba, so some of Dejan and those who took some locations. To get them a better job, that's why this thing goes in. Of course, this is the retroactivity proposed by our amendment. However, you have quoted the provision of the Constitution and it allows certain provisions of the law to have a feedback. As you refused the amendment, you could have given the same explanation and accepted the amendment. That this amendment has its weight, is also proof that we are going back to that date that you set with this amendment. In order to establish the right to return VAT, when it comes to the transport of this first apartment, you have set, as a condition for the exercise of that right, on July 1st, 2006. What does that mean? Someone who owned the apartment before July 1st, 2006, then sold the apartment, is sufficient to legitimize from July last year with the belief that he had no property on that day and he can claim this right to return. I don't see why this amendment is not accepted. You're already saying, from 1 July 2006, until the day of entry into force of this law, he had no apartment, no co-ownership, etc., this right can be used after the adoption of this law, when the contract is cleared. It's already contained in the last member of your bill. You've done the same thing twice. You could have done exactly this law without Article 29, because the law goes into effect on the eighth day of the day of publication. So, from that moment on, the right to return VAT for the first apartment is established. So what you wrote in article 29 is in the last article. However, when you wrote article 29, we wanted to do a little work on it, so let's say – admit it to all those people who haven't had a settled housing issue since 1 July 2006, in terms of having no apartment, nor were they co-owners, and they meet these conditions for VAT refund for the purchase of the first apartment. You don't, it doesn't fit the scenario the government imagined. As you can see, there's no citizen here, there's no right to him, just their interests and lobbies that push this kind of government, these kind of ministers and ideas. Listen now – Djelic's promise, he promised at the DS election convention, for the first apartment we cancel taxes etc. What'd he put out? You've introduced vomiting. It's not tax cuts, it's paid, so you help yourself, so when a man proves it, when he takes it off completely, give it back to him. That doesn't solve the question of the one who doesn't have the means. He doesn't have any, so he doesn't have any funds. If there's no funding for 25 squares, there won't be any for that 8%. You're not helping anything. You only help the chosen ones. Some others were in charge of that National Credit Insurance Corporation, these young and smart, these experts who drop their diplomas at the National Theatre. That's how Mićko Albianic got the apartment, too, and he was raptivating from his mother-in-law, finally. So it's all about bribery, corruption, embezzlement and theft. That's what democracy taught us. So there's no reason for the government to say - the amendment is being adopted. We ask that in the voting day vote it has a return fact and this member. It's obviously hard for you, because it doesn't fit into the patterns and patterns that you've drawn. One more thing, all those who wrote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, made one mistake. They should have entered the right to the apartment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, if the right to an apartment exists in the Constitution of Italy, I don't see any reason why there should be no right to the apartment and to us. Not the right to the status of a tenant, but the right to an apartment is guaranteed to every citizen, to some through the right to property, and to some as a social category, not to live on the street. But you don't see a man. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3829	Three more minutes, MP Sasa Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3830	Dear fellow MPs, as far as this amendment is concerned, also said co-worker Ivana Zecevic and counterpart Krasic, but I will only look back on the pre-election promise by the DS, that they will refund for the purchase of the first apartment. The only question is, who can buy an apartment in Serbia today? Yeah, it's supposed to work, but there's a million unemployed. My colleague, you do not seem to live in Serbia, it seems that you live in some of these highly developed European countries or have come from the Cayman Islands and others, where Janjusevic, Kolesar and others were. There are a large number of unemployed young people in Serbia and in general over a million unemployed, from 2000 to today, remain in the privatisation you conducted. In addition to privatisation, we have plenty of families where only one is employed. When an employee works and has an average salary of 20 and some thousand, it is so average in Serbia, and when you come, after these pompous announcements of yours that they will be able to buy an apartment to these banks, since you have destroyed the banking system of Serbia, and you have brought all these banks that have funded certain political parties or had some arrangements with them. I'll tell you, for example, in Pogorevec – we've become little Geneva. We no longer have an industrial zone, we have a city center completely destroyed economy and trade. We have 25 banks. The fireman is a city of 90,000 people, where we have 25 banks and still open, every day they open. The question is, what are we doing? Instead of starting, as you promised, small and medium-sized enterprises, to start economy and hire people, we open banks, where more and more citizens are in debt and toiling into debt slavery. You don't have a family in Serbia that didn't get in charge. I'm not saying you can buy anything in Europe for your salary. However, the interest offered especially in these banks currently on the Serbian market is enormous, so these are the robbery interest. You're in so much debt that they won't be able to bring your children back. What is given at 20 years with interest of more than 15 percent, calculate how much it is on an annual level, so you'll see how much that one apartment costs you. You should have created the conditions first so that young people could get a job, earn income, and then eventually take out a loan from their income, but not with this kind of robbery interest, bringing Serbian citizens more and more into debt slavery. In addition, you promised here that when democratic forces came to power, young people would be able to prosper in Serbia, regardless of whether they belonged to a political party. However, it is obvious that only one belonging to the democratic bloc can be employed today in Serbia, as no one's bank to hire is immediately asked which party it belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3831	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. You've wasted your time with the SRS. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, the violation of Rules of Procedure 226, i.e. one request and one initiative of the Finance Minister, given that on behalf of the Government of Republika Srpska, we have addressed in writing both the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister in the light of the release of certain categories of the population, and the thought of the evasive and exiled population from Kosovo and Metohija and Serbs who have been expelled from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia that have set out to build houses, to be exempt from paying taxes on construction material. I think it would be very humane and very moral, God-awful to help that people. It's about the category of population that are the poorest, but they dared to build their own house and their hearths and integrate themselves into this society and find ways and directions of survival and separate the last dinar to build their housing units. Mr. Minister, I think it would be good to consider liberating that population of VAT at that general rate or, if not, at least at a reduced rate of 8% and thus helping that population.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3833	Thank you. Since no one wants a word anymore and since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. It is my duty to open the third item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the ACCIZA Act You have received amendments submitted by the Government and the People's MPs: Rajko Baralić, Milorad Krstin, Saša Valjarev, Paja Momčov, Zdravko Topalović, Momir Marković, Zoran Antić, Goran Cvetanović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Radiša Ilic, Gojko Radić, Marija Milišić, Dragan Zivkov, Otto Kišmarton, Darko Glisic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milan Škrbić, Stefan Zankov, Milan Avramović and Radica Jocic. National MP Ivan Zivadinović, written down, withdrew the amendments submitted to Article 5(6) to Article 6 and to Article 15. It's a bill of law. You have received the opinion of the Government and the Legislative Committee's report on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Let's take a break. Before the break, I only have two things to tell you. In accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, I am informing the MPs that we will be working after 1800 hours. The reason is a large number of amendments that have arrived at the proposed laws and the need to complete the session this week. Also, I am informing the MPs that we have received a notice from RTS. "We inform you that on 26 June 2007, given our contractual obligations, as well as our assumed marketing obligations, in anticipation of the match between Ana Ivanovic and Novak Djokovic at the Wimbledon 2007 tennis tournament, and depending on the tournament captain, probably around 18.00 hours and beyond, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament directly on the second RTS programme." Also, I would like to inform you that the transfer will be delayed after these commitments have been completed. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break for an hour and we'll continue to work at 3:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3834	We continue our work, on Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić and Milorad Krstin. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank Mr. Juddjevic. There's no one I'd possibly contact to possibly accept a meaningful amendment, and there's no finance minister here with associates, but anyway, I'm going to try to convince you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Amendment and supplementing the Excise Act to delete Article 2 because I consider it not good, above all for agricultural producers in Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia, to abolish the excise duty on import juices and everything that looks like fruit juices, water, etc. Someone would say that I am here to advocate that also privatised Serbian companies in one special way are now making their profits here, because therefore more than that, Serbian society has no endowment whatsoever, and it is not so. If there is no excise duty to which I want to abolish by amendment, then the potential market for producers, fruits above all, is limited and therefore less competitive in Serbia, and in addition, further liberalisation of imports in this area will lead to a completely pointless market in this area in Serbia. We are one of the countries in the world and Europe that has extraordinary potential in bottled natural waters. If this amendment would not be accepted, it would mean that some French or Italian unquality waters can, at dumped prices or otherwise, win the Serbian market, aside from us and our children drinking unquality water and on the other hand, workers employed in domestic chargers and therefore, I will agree with this problem. Just so you know, someone doesn't think I forgot what I was saying a few days ago. I, of course, advocate that those who in Serbia today bottle water to the state pay for it in the form of a natural factor, as much as the states define. But I believe that the abolition of excise duties in this way is neither economic nor marketable nor politically sustainable for us. Of course, the government did not accept the proposed amendment. The Finance Committee could not be declared as there was no quorum on it, and the Legislative Committee gave one final formulation on this matter. I would like to say that it is our obligation to adopt today's law and to help with their correction to the extent that we are personnel and in which our knowledge and what we assume may happen, to do so on these amendments and here in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Because, and right away, in 2000, and I'm going to quote Mr. Stojan Jeftic, the current acting president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who was once the director of the Institute for the Application of Science in Agriculture, and for a time was the Minister of Agriculture in DOS Government, I have to say, but no matter what he was a member of the Democratic Party, that I have the best possible opinion (there are those), so in 2000, he said that the relationship between developed and undeveloped areas in Serbia was 1 to 17, and today it was 1 to 26. So Serbia has to stop this trend and will stop it, among other things, by providing appropriate legislation with primarily potential fruit placement, and now it's also about that, and vegetables in Serbia. The government has explained that this is not possible, because it is contrary to the member and the famous European Union directives and that this coincides with Serbia's accession to the CEF agreement. I just want to say, we've already had an argument here about that and the amendment to the value added tax, it's just not true. A state that does not have mechanisms to protect its market from full liberalisation has been condemned to reduce its production to minimal, while its citizens are buying a European bofl, because unfortunately it is almost now in Serbia. Of course, there's no minister here, let me say it one more time, and I understand his logic. In the architecture of the budget, it is governed by the law of large numbers and is the easiest place for large spending to fill the budget with a certain procedure. He's doing the opposite here. He here releases excise juices and imported natural water and thus what he keeps saying here, I say, expresses regret and practically all of us are in a situation where we don't believe that they are extremely serious and sincerely composing this budget. Otherwise, we've already had a few examples of this, and we've listed precise data, that the state can't take the money from the natural factor at the cement store, in the Kretchens and here now, the water charger, and that it's not able to take 35m euros to reregister these so-called. Montenegrin cars and not being able and a whole series of other issues to regulate without enough funds for these or those purposes. I remind you, yesterday was held a session of the Committee on Agriculture and it was re-assessed there, as well as on the Committee on Finance, that the funds for agriculture in 2007 were smaller than those spent in 2006, because the Ministry was unable to use these funds that were balanced. This basically means that someone lied to us, because if there's a certain excuse or an attempt to justify why loans were not granted to the peasants, why there wasn't enough funds for anti-urban protection, why there wasn't enough funds for appliances called lactose in dairy, and now we see that practically the Ministry of Finance isn't able or won't take the money where there is money and to share it where it's necessary. It's very important that we understand what we're talking about here. I'd like to quote an economist who said, based on marketing, that women can sell almost anything and that children can sell everything. So the juices and the equipment we talked about this morning, unfortunately, fall into this category, where I think best of both women and children, that someone doesn't get what I'm saying wrong. The finance ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia have the responsibility to prevent the full liberalisation of the Serbian market in this area, to prevent dumped prices in this area from being completely unfairly eliminated by the competition of domestic juice producers and similar products in Serbia. Also, to prevent a way that is completely inappropriate from leaving a Serbian peasant without being able to sell its fruits to a potential juice producer. All the other stories about this fall because the Ministry isn't consistent, doesn't take the money where it's at, and takes the money where it doesn't belong. I want to say it again, he doesn't take money on imported juices and bottled water, but that's why he takes money on mel-peens, baby spoons, baby kits, anything that's necessary for babies and little kids. We're serious people here, we understand the context of adopting this budget well, I understand the Ministry who, in this way, tried to make some arguments, yes, but I have to say that I would show an unintelligent attitude if I accepted that argument as finally and as healthy for granted. Here, certain lobbies are protected who really want to make an expansion on the Serbian market when it comes to fruit juices, filled with water and other products that are components for natural juices. We have a responsibility, as MPs, to prevent this from happening. So, keep the excise, there will be more money in the budget, there will be no full liberalisation of the market in this area and we will not happen to drink unquality water. I want to say that there are two waters in Serbia, it's not my custom, but I'm going to say here, and I'm going to risk being declared an agent who advertises some water, so "Vasin Rose" and "water Water" are those waters that have no competition on the European market, neither by quality nor by the characteristics these two waters have. By not adopting this excise, these waters will not be competitive. Does anyone have that kind of interest? I think we have a responsibility to recognize this phenomenon, to call it the right name, and to ask you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, to accept the amendment that was submitted in the same text by a colleague from the SRS, to delete Article 2 in the said Excise Act, because that way we provide everything I've talked about here. Of course, there's still a chance, we'll talk about it in three, four months again, we'll see that this budget is thinner than it thinks, and we'll see that the controversy run by the governor of the National Bank with the finance minister about the deficit in the budget, which was adopted here the other day, is not such an unserious story. We've been here for a long time, 50 of us, other colleagues and colleagues have been recently, we understand what is going on here, and I would like for us to come to the best possible decisions and solutions in terms of the budget and all the laws in Serbia. Like this, someone has an obligation to do this or what, it's not right. I'm going back to these farmers. They still serve only in Serbia to bake and offer several grains of salt when they are campaigning, to welcome party leaders, to show them two seconds on TV and when it passes, they no longer exist. They're working at this temperature of normal business, there's a harvest going on, there's other jobs going on, we're obliged to keep an eye on each law, because this story is that we're ready to develop evenly regional waterfalls with every other member of the law or alterations and additions to the laws we're proposing. They can only endure what I'm talking about if we have an understanding of what they're doing. If that doesn't happen, they will disappear, today there are 300,000 hectares of parked land in Serbia. It's a national crime. It is also a political crime against the village and Serbia's foster parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3836	I thank my colleague Baralic. MP Momir Markovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind Members whose second or third term is to remember when we are here, in this room, we have adopted the previous Excise Act. You remember how much the fight was just to get rid of the excise duty on importers and to charge domestic producers with excise duty. Finally, when it went through that law, import lobbys, friends of friends, mostly all a little yellowish, but now it's spreading the circle of friendship, so there's a little more of them on all sides, there's a little more of them, they finally pressured the government, so the government takes a bill like this to the MPs. To remind you, Article 2 says that excise duties are taxed on the following products: oil derivatives – of course, because oil derivatives will collect steam. The oil derivatives will accumulate, they will automatically collect everything in which oil derivatives have been introduced. Not to mention that natural gas, that liquid gas will also accumulate, that is to say, excise will be calculated and thus the price of that higher, but we will talk about this in the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. The only thing you can get from tobacco processing is some more money, and of course you've decided to tax it. Alcoholic drinks of domestic production. +Now comes point 5, says, deleted in this bill – import products, refreshing non-alcoholic drinks, syrups, fresh drinks, fruit juices, concentrated fruit juices and fruit nectar and fruit juices powder. Why not accept Mr Baralic's amendment, the reason is that, the amendment is not accepted since the abolition of excise duty on refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, syrups and powders for refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, fruit juices, concentrated fruit juices and fruit nectar and fruit juices powder from imports, as groups of products paid for excise duty, importers are equating with domestic producers of these products, and domestic legislation is in line with EU legislation and the'sto' rules. So, the one that's gonna grow fruit all year round, invest, read, prepare for production is equal to the one that imports. In other words, those who have money, and in this case, money only has tycoons that are in the club. However, it may not be this club'sto', in their private club, there are few more than a hundred, those who in one way or another scratched on power for these seven years and got rich. They're allowed to import these products. That is why Serbian agriculture is reduced to a beggar stick and thus the producers of these products in Serbia are placed in a very uneven position. Thus, workers who work and earn a piece of bread are brought into an unequal position and all hands are pushed into their pockets, so that several tycoons of the yellow-blue coalition are enriched. I believe that this amendment should be accepted, but we should also accept an amendment that will now come into order, so that in the package we can delete this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3838	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certainly necessary to support the amendment proposed by counterpart Rajko Baralic, and I have a similar amendment on Article 8. I'd just like to rely on my predecessors' discussion at the pay phone. Mr Baralić made one analysis of the protection, first of all, of the direct agricultural producer, domestic water and juice producers. Here's what's going on. I'll remind you of one paradoxal situation from three, four years ago, when the prominent DS member, Mr. Djordjevic, owns the "Si&S" company, to demand that the "Rach" company be produced, the Austrian firm, beautiful special labels on which it is said to be a fruit extract product, not fruit. Normally, kids know that today. Mr. Minister, if you didn't know how to inform you, as well as the prime minister, the fruit juice production base is pumpkins and plums and then it's afraid of natural flavors. Normally, Mr. Djordjevic, as a prominent member of the DS, was then able to protect himself as a domestic producer. But time has changed. Most of Serbia's juice and mineral water producers are privatised. I would not comment on that privatisation right now, but it will certainly be the topic of debate when it comes to disassociating the government. What's going on now? Most of these producers, starting with the first Serbian company "Knjaz Milos", "Vrenjci", "Si&Si", company, producers and juices. This way you're going against the story now. Suddenly a sudden concern, we can name it "Rach", for "Pago", already present on our market, for harmful red-bull-type energy drinks, and this excise on importers, you could establish absolute control over domestic energy drink producers, which, unfortunately, I can say freely, still lead as a refreshing potion. No, this is not your argument that it's a compliance with EU law. For what? I'll give you a concrete example. The EU market is a very closed market. The EU also protects its market, which protects Chinese goods, goods from other EU countries, other European countries that are not in the EU, and is particularly protected from US goods. And you have a problem with the excise on imported juices. By doing so, you'll make room for companies like Rauch and Pag, and I'm afraid you've been decommissioned this time by Slovenia's Fructal, don't clean the market for domestic producers. I'm telling you, whatever privatisations were in those companies for a couple thousand people. They feed their families. Profits in these companies aren't that small. You're pushing this directly into ruin. That way you won't attract a foreign investor. Who's stupid enough to invest money in Serbia when he knows that by some method, which has nothing to do with a free economy, in a year, two, maltenes to shut down his factory. Why not keep your excise duty and therefore force foreign investors to privatise and directly buy a factory in Serbia, to do a good social programme, to keep workers, to continue producing it and to be competitive on the domestic market, so that it can be treated as domestic juice. I'm afraid that in three, four months' time, only the fractal juices will be present. Otherwise, I have to inform you that this company has a very outdated method of producing juice compared to our companies. I'm just curious, as long as you allow such measures an uncontrollable inflow, first of all, of Slovenian goods, of their producers. I'll pull another parallel for you. Forsyrate in this case Austrian producers, Austrian banks are present in Serbia, so whether Guzenbauer will choose the president of the state, Mr Tadic, within a year. Probably. You're coming into a situation of slavery. I am afraid, Mr. Minister, I am not afraid, but I sincerely hope that one day we will charge Mr. Dinkic, Vlahovic, Milosavljevic, with this case and you, with the crime of association against the Serbian economy. You have introduced a new topic into the Serbian judiciary, which is 'terrorism in the economy'.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3840	Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Mr. Minister gave an explanation for the adoption of the budget and this package of laws, he said one more thing. He says Serbia has a chronic problem that the government is seeking to address, which is a reduction in the external trade deficit, i.e. a reduction in the difference between imported goods and goods exported. But one thing is said, and the other is quite another. It may be the nice wishes of Mr. Minister, but the fact is that all the laws that are passed here in this assembly can only benefit foreign producers from wide-ranging consumer goods and importers. Here, you can see that in the case of amendments to the Excise Act. In addition to all these harmful consequences for domestic agriculture and the domestic agricultural and processing industry, we have one general problem, which is that the external trade deficit at one point the National Bank will not be able to cover it with its gymnastics and abuses, and will certainly come to an expansion, that is, the euro jump relative to the dinar. The alleged explanation of the minister that this is about having to respect the EU directives and the World Trade Organisation simply doesn't drink water, i.e. asking a simple question – is Mr. Finance Minister EU Finance or Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? If it will work in the EU's interest, I don't mind and do it, but it can't do any harm to the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian economy. When he talked about the juices, it's still starting with your Five-Octobar Revolution. We had several producers of homemade juices, which not only bought bases on the market, but had a complete production cycle, from buying agricultural products, making concentrated juices, making sodas powdered. Gentlemen, when you came to power on October 5th, the crisis headquarters at Delhi ruined the Delishes. Completely ruined! From the moment you set up the crisis stations one by one drive slowly shut down. How much money was sold for? There's only one tanker worth more than you've sold an entire factory, and on the pretext that it's so bad that you just couldn't do more. You ruined it! You've torn off production cycles, pushed companies into debt by your crisis headquarters, and of course they're not worth much. It seems that it is not enough either, the trend of destroying the Serbian economy must continue, so you have now resolved, under the pretext of the European Union and the World Trade Organisation's directive, to abolish excise duties on juice products. Only because of one such policy should a man imagine and ask himself one question, when he is in the elections and when there are elections for whom he will vote, whether he who votes to think about his interest, what he is obliged to do, or the interests of various financial lobbies, other than to say the world's speculators, which is most important to this import lobby, because of course the European Union is not interested in Serbia as a country that is going to produce something, which is going to create a new value, which is going to export something. Serbia is interested in them exclusively as the market and the worst is the tycoon in Serbia that work together with them and co-operate with this government. The fact is that right now on this market other than "Fructal", which is mentioned, is slowly entering Kolinska, we know that it is a godfather's friendship between the former director of the National Office, now Minister of Government, Grand Coffee, etc. How long will the entire nation and the whole country be in line with the interests of individuals?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3842	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3843	I'd just like to, to the public, to say a few facts that are completely contrary to the criticism we've heard from this pay phone. I don't know if you know it, but who's even more serious about tracking the consumption of non-alcoholic beverages today is clear to him that domestic production has the highest share in the total consumption of non-alcoholic beverages and that this cannot be compared to what was found in 2000. I'll remind you that Nectar, which is a domestic company, today has a total of 30% of the total market share. I remind you that the company that did not work in 2000, "Zupa" from Alexandrovac, has the highest participation at the moment when it comes to non-alcoholic beverages in Republika Srpska, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also very high participation in Serbia. I want to say to those who are a little more professional in this topic that excise duties in no country are a means of protecting domestic economy. And there is no developed country that seeks, inclines, moves towards the European Union or is a candidate country in which excise policy plays a discriminatory role in relation to products from abroad, or products from imports and domestic production. The protection of domestic production is achieved by customs policy and I will remind you that everything imported into the category of non-alcoholic beverages is paid by the relevant customs legislation, or the Customs Tariffs Act, which we, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, have adopted in this House. Therefore, the abolition of this category, i.e. the excise duty on non-alcoholic beverages, has a double basis. On the one hand, the discriminatory provision that existed in the previous period is deleted, and what we all know is that the consumption of this category of drinks has no negative external influences such as alcohol, oil, petroleum products, where additional excise taxation is actually used to eliminate these negative effects. It is therefore necessary to state the state of the domestic production of non-alcoholic beverages today, and it is clear that this situation cannot be compared to what was found in 2000. When we talk about entering Kolinska's domestic market there, it should also be said that it has absolutely nothing to do with that state, but that it is about connecting two private enterprises, one side of the Grand Coffee, on the other side of Colinska. That it is a regional integration which is primarily business-motivated and which, in the end, represents only one of a series of regional integrations, which is quite normal for those in the business. A much wider market is needed and only regional leaders can survive in the long term.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3844	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3845	On the basis of Article 226, I request an explanation from the minister. Governor Jelasic said in Nis, June 24, 2007, that the budget deficit is much larger than 0.6 bdp. "I am sure that my opinion will be shared by the European Union and the IMF that the deficit is much higher and is about 2.5% bdp, or about 50 billion dinars." So, what exactly is it? Your 13.7 billion or the governor's 50?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3846	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3847	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I will use fine Serbian words instead of "exterior," to say external influence, etc. I don't like to use foreign words in my own language, especially not in the Serbian Parliament, because that's where we should grow the Serbian language. When someone comes out and says something, they give an example, and I have several examples of how DOS policy has affected domestic economy. Except for the Delishes who made these famous home juices "Hani," what about "Godfather"? Another agricultural industrial combination that's completely destroyed, no plantation, no drive, nothing anymore. It's not true he didn't work in 2000, that's not true. Furthermore, it is mentioned here that it is a policy in developed countries. Do you consider Serbia a developed country? Is someone making a joke with us? Is it someone pretending they don't live in Serbia or someone living so well that they don't pay attention to how most Serbian citizens live? Let him pay attention to that too, I suppose it represents one part of his electoral body that certainly cannot boast of the high standard of living that the gentleman has. Furthermore, when it comes to customs protection, you must first remember what it was like to create a state community, what customs policy you have made, what all the discounts you have had towards Montenegro and what, precisely because of Montenegro's policy, were customs rates. Those customs rates haven't changed today. They may have been introduced under the form of another law, but they haven't been significantly changed. So the state does not have adequate customs protection when it comes to agricultural products. No wonder countries in transition, as you like to say, also apply extra-tariff methods to protect domestic producers and domestic markets. One of these can be excises, since you don't already grant subsidies to domestic producers, then you protect them with excises or both, neither can either. How strong this lobby is for which, the import lobby, not just him, there is a world-wide organization that places itself in one particular position, and one such lobby is producers of non-alcoholic beverages. We have reports from the International Health Organization. I will read only the last paragraph of the report, which says – the modes of subsidies and the suppression of competition are so numerous that the path to liberalisation is thorny and bitter. One of the frustrating examples is the agreement between European and American producers of non-alcoholic beverages and canned products to ignore the World Health Organization's recommendation, to reduce the amount of sugar and salt in their products, despite the growing dramatic trend of obesity on the planet and associated diseases, diabetes and coronary diseases. So, government gentlemen and most of you who support this government are working in the interest of world producers of non-alcoholic beverages, not in the interest of citizens of Serbia. There's been a problem for all governments since October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3848	According to the Rules of Procedure, Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3849	Mr. Djudjevic, Mr. Vlahovic is in a fight with no basis or need. It is well known to me, Mr. Vlahovic, that excise products are those where the state wants to limit, it is not disputed, and I did not pollute at that level, but I want my country to do so and that is why I wrote the amendment. So that's what I want and that's my political attitude. I don't want to see water here in a few weeks, like "Pelegrin" and "Evian" which are the worst water in Europe, and completely unfairly compete with the waters that our children drink today. I have a political responsibility, but I have every parent and every other responsibility to do it. So, it's my mission, and it's not that I didn't understand that the customs mechanism provides what you claimed. So we haven't talked at all at the same level of argument. I have another request, we said when the government was formed, what should or should not be done, and you are an authorised representative of the DS, and there is no point in speaking on behalf of the Finance Minister, don't humiliate a man in front of the MPs. That's not correct, that's not fair, respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'm fully aware, although I didn't vote to be a minister and he doesn't need a lawyer of that kind. So, he's a draftr of the budget, he's a responsible person for the budget, and he's obviously capable of plowing with the MPs. It doesn't make sense. You're from the same party and from the same coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3850	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zdravko Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3851	Article 226. Mr. Vlahovicu, don't insult the members of the SRS. Our first job isn't the ministry's work, it's not yours, but most of your assistants are. We all come from strong companies. I'm 17 years in business. To inform you, speak, here's how much you don't know the market, "Kolinska" from Slovenia is already present on the Serbian market, there is also "Palanic Acid" and are in terrible problems. Gentlemen from "Kolinska" are used with one advertising trick, since the water "Karadjordje" is their birth name, it sold poorly, because it owns a Slovenian company, they came up with it, so it was one advertising slogan – "It's good, it's Serbian". Let me tell you, how do we know what excise is and what's customs? You want to discipline the former minister so I can finish, but it's no problem, the gentleman didn't confuse me and I will continue, but let me tell you, the economy of the European Union, the economy of Serbia, that they are normally not the same. We suggest that you keep that excise for a while, because our economy works in difficult conditions, and one day, if we enter the EU, then adjust the law and abolish it. Until then, you must protect your domestic producers. We suggested something else when we discussed the budget and these laws. You remember well, Mr. Minister, that we suggested that you remove the VAT on bottled water. Serbia has a drinking water problem, so we don't lie, you protect the import lobby, which says colleagues "San Pellegrin" and "Evian", import some of the water that comes to us from suspicious chargers. We'll live to drink "San Pellegrin" here in a year instead of "Aqua Viva" and that's a shame. We appeal once again to you, and we'll get bored, to protect the domestic manufacturer, otherwise we'll direct them to your office with their families and with everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3852	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will have to return to the reasoning of this bill where it says it is done, namely that this law is the basis for certain standardisations and for compliance with EU rules. As far as the EU is concerned, we must say that they went into harmonisation in 1993 and they ended successfully, but only two areas, in tobacco, can be said successfully, in the third, oil and oil derivatives, the steps have not agreed and there will probably be a very long time before they agree to the rates. In alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, harmonisation has not been successfully completed and there are huge problems in the EU. As for EU harmonisation, we must say that we must not, given that we are far from the EU, we are far from standardisation and harmonisation, not the legal system, but the totality of the system, and it would be foolish to apply these provisions for a number of reasons. The first is the foreign trade deficit, which will be between nine and ten billion euros this year and allow for an open market. The same EU and the world imposed sanctions on this country 15 years ago, unwarranted sanctions, and now they say, free the market. First they shut us down, destroyed the economy, ruined everything that worked, and now they say, open up a little bit of what lives, and just live in this area. The second thing, we have a budget deficit, and it was appropriate to use every option, to raise funds and fill that budget and create surpluses in the budget. We now, through the liberalisation of imports, the free market, allow competition from the West, which is very strong and unfairly occurring on this market, to put in everything they can and dirty and normal, to go with various methods, to jump in, to tear this market apart. We, instead of now from the funds that we collect based on these excises, give the means to develop a food industry that deals with the processing of fruits and vegetables and target those resources in the development of these companies, we release and even create greater dubiosis and greater deficits. Mr. Vlahovicu, when you perform here, you are a representative of the authorities, I suppose it is in your interest to advocate the development of our economy, not of the breaking up. You directly by your discussion, and by this method proposed by the Ministry of Finance, you're breaking up this little economy that's left. This is the punitive activity of the government, and these congregations too, if it adopts and adopts this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3854	I thank my colleagues, Buhi, you do not have time within the SRS parliamentary group, it has expired. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot understand that an MP cannot submit the same amendment and that I am asking for the same thing. Why not all here in the National Assembly have the same views and thoughts about one law, no matter what law or bill the government has passed. It is identical, I have neither spoken nor spoken to Mr Baralic, but I have submitted this amendment to Article 2 in front of the SRS. Proposal for a law, or addition of the Excise Act. in order to delete Article 2. Article 2 says that excise duties are taxed on the following products: oil derivatives, tobacco processing, and then the third paragraph deleted, fourth, alcoholic beverages and fifth, which is why I said to delete, are import products, refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, syrups and powders for refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, fruit juices, concentrated fruit juices, fruit nectar and fruit juices powder. And the government's opinion says that, the amendment does not accept, given that the abolition of excise duty on refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, syrups and powders for refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, fruit juices, concentrated fruit juices, fruit nectar and fruit juices powder from imports as a group of products paid for by excise, importers are equating with domestic producers of these products, and domestic legislation is in line with EU legislation and the rules of the World Trade Organisation. Mr. Minister, I wrote down one of your arguments a few days ago, when you said this law was in line with the World Trade Organisation, not with the EU. Check the stenogram, that's what you said. But, the government's argument, in order not to read again the reasoning of all these seven-eightths, I will repeat only these two orders "importers are equating with domestic producers of these products, and domestic legislation is in line with European Union legislation and the rules of the World Trade Organisation". I don't know why we, who are guaranteed to enter the EU, at least in the next ten years, are harmonising the law with the World Trade Organisation. While the United States ignores this law with the World Trade Organisation, because it puts into juices sugar that the World Trade Organisation does not want to put on, they put salt in the products of dense tomatoes, etc. That's what my colleague Krasic said. The other day, a colleague Krasic talked about it, but well, it means why we should respect something when a world or military trade force simply ignores the World Trade Organisation. However, a colleague from the SRS said well earlier, this proposal is really in favour of the Slovenian "Fructal" that is favored. The same is said why not take this "Fructal" nicely and buy our one juice factory, if it is not already modernized that it is modernized according to our 21st century or EU standards and that we produce juices, because here we have this product, thank God Serbia is known for its fruit and vegetables. Why can we not simply meet these standards and conditions already? But there's something else that should be said to complete this discussion of mine. Namely, the election for National Assembly President Tomislav Nikolic suddenly jumped prices, chaos, and you see miracles, Tomislav Nikolic is no longer the president of the assembly. Let's just take an example of auto-gas, in the last month from 31 dinars jumped to 39.5 dinars. So Minister, step out for the pay phone, explain why the sudden leap when the president of the Assembly is no longer from the ranks of the SRS, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Mr. Vlahovic, since you are such a nice and close follower of my presentations, I can give you the greetings of small shareholders from "Yugormedia," Zrenjanin, one of the drug manufacturers and those key medicines used for the normal work and functioning of one organ, heart, is, but it seems, says –justice is slow but affordable. You little stockholders that you were then with Jaka Radovish.. 80 famous... who fled Serbia in time and lived in Macedonia. From there you managed to get him to pay some bail, take that firm and try to destroy it, but like I said, justice is slow but affordable, and you'll never wash yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3856	Thank you. On the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3857	This is the second identical amendment and, given that the government is silent, wisely silently counting on the passing of this stormyly called National Assembly session, it will all fall into oblivion in two or three days. There's one thing I have to say that the government is right, and that's, yes, when determining a list of products or goods that are burdened with excise duty, there must be no criterion whether it's from imports or domestic production, and I totally agree. However, I do not understand now, if the introduction of an excise on non-alcoholic products from abroad has so far been a democratic standard, as it is lost today, what it is that has changed the democratic standard. World Trade Organisation rule? Well, they were there when this law was passed, and today, it's almost the same rules, some big bookies where some standards are given, etc. Who's applying that? It applies that and that state in that part that suits them. The second reason why it is required to delete this point in Article 2 is that we are in line with the legislation of the European Union. We really don't get it. With which legislation of the European Union. The European Union market is closed to goods from Serbia. Some goods can pass. When some of our goods pass, they won't say what kind of burdens there are, which is customs, what else. The European Union market is closed to our products. In view of this political charge on the need for a single European Union and a single Europe, they designed this'single society' called CEFTA, to establish in this part of the market the former Yugoslavia, in an economic aspect, so that these goods would not be so closed there, and in addition, they have Slovenians who are full members of the European Union. Because their products can't go there right now, so they can make sure that their products come to our public market. These aren't innovating anything. This all started with Labus and Dinkic in November 2000, when our market opened and Serbia opened as, literally, when you open one can – open and everything is allowed. Just to remind you, it's a period when Kostunica and Labus invented a way to conquer companies with crisis headquarters. Here we are talking about the European Union all in superlatives, just some good things that are good for these people in the Netherlands and France, but it is an impossible mission in Serbia. What product do we compete with? We don't have that product. Take the nomenclature, take the tariff, look at any position and tell whom we can compete with our production price and our prices here. So, for the European Union, we are as interesting as the market, and that consumer market for all goods. If it's money, then we have banks to launder money through. What's that? Mafia money. If it's food products, you can see for yourself, a food rush from abroad. Where are our people going? You can take these our food industry leaders, they'll list you seven to eight, possibly ten, countries where they export their goods. Perhaps if Italy appeared and others from Western Europe, these others are all from the eastern part, geographically east and now after this political transmutation of Central and Eastern Europe. Where can we go with our goods? Why can't we go with our goods? Why are some markets closed for us? It's okay for everyone to do whatever they want. Somethin' Mr. Vlahovic's right. If you look at the food industry's own structure in Serbia, you'll see that they own people from abroad. The home brand, but the owner from abroad, is "Frickom," is it this one or that one. Now let me give you some advice on how I'm fighting it. I'm fighting very effectively: I turn on B92 and I see who's advertising on B92. When it's advertised on B92, I don't buy its goods. Very simple and simple. Why don't I buy? Because those who advertise on B92 are funding an anti-Serbian television station, which should devastate the soul of the Serbian people. It's my kind of fight. Of course, you'll see, there's no Slovenian, no Croatian, no goods coming out of us such dear former republics, where our fellows have shown you how good they are, so Milorad Buha is a refugee today. Let everyone in Serbia fight in their own way. Let everyone in Serbia lead some of their trade riots, resistance, resistance to this kind of government that destroys domestic production, effectively destroys it. We can talk about rules and World Trade Organisations, etc. And this CEFTA, did we ratify that contract? We didn't. Did the Assembly ratify that? It's not. How can that bind us? In many places these agreements appear, unwarranted, unconfirmed. In accordance with the new Constitution, this must be confirmed. No, the "single society" village, led by Tanja Miscevic and say – there is our strategic interest and she talks for five minutes about the strategic interest in goods, and 45 minutes about how people should be delivered to The Hague, if we want to be closer to the European Union. What is this harmonisation, what is the basis for this harmonisation? Is there a micron of interest in our economy in this harmonisation? It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. That's the problem. Everything has to be destroyed. But when it comes to their interest, then logic changes. You see, the charge of excise juices from abroad was a democratic standard until a few days ago, and now it's not. The democratic standard was also a regulation on oil during Djindjic's government. Then they seduced Monopoly, Novakovic, etc., he could not import any oil he wanted, only the chosen could. What block? From a democratic block. Who could have imported electricity and exported electricity? A democratic block. This is the only product in Article 2 that says whether it is imports or domestic products. Why? We barely fought it. Just to remind you, in 2004, there was an initiative by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on excise duties, it seems to me that it was diesel. We passed the law, our amendment was adopted, whether the Perić's amendment was adopted, after five days Dinkic was furious – the new law on amendments and additions to the existing law and returns to the old one. The argument for it is, he says, those abroad said, they got angry, I promised them it would be so, and it has to be so, there's no more talking. Of course, 127 votes have gathered, voted, returned. So we don't even have sovereignty in the National Assembly building.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3858	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Valjarevic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS and I, as a promoter, have suggested that Article 5, paragraph 2, delete, impose a excise duty on liquid gas. We find it unacceptable to introduce a excise on the liquid gas used to drive motor vehicles. The users of this argument belong to the economically most vulnerable population of Serbian citizens. On the other hand, it is the purest energy that threatens the environment at least, so the state should stimulate its use by its fiscal policy for these purposes. I can tell you, Ministers and also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that you are welcomed by the associations of all taxi drivers in Serbia, since they are one of the biggest users of that liquid gas for motor vehicles. Given that a large number of Serbian citizens have lost their jobs since 5 October, they have found a job as taxi drivers, because they have teamed up, established associations and set off to earn bread for their families. However, you are now trying to make it difficult for them with new intrusions and such a difficult material situation, given that when we go out and look at what kind of taxi associations are and what vehicles they are, when the average age of a vehicle is over 20 years and they barely get their loans from banks to possibly have the opportunity to install on these old second-hand liquid gas installations, so that they can make a cheaper drive to earn a decent salary for their families. Here you are referring to whether or not you or someone from the government responded that excise duties on liquid gas were introduced in the surrounding countries, i.e. that in more than 30 countries it was done, in Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, etc. I don't know, I'm asking you one more time, if you live in Serbia. Do you maybe move outside of these political or ministerial circles where there are high wages and where you probably live well, enjoy the privileges, and normal citizens who do not have these privileges or have no such high wages, they certainly cannot pay for that excise duty, nor can they follow it. Since autotransport companies, i.e. bus companies, in Serbia are privatised and more lines are closing, as new foreign partners coming to buy for the budget, sometimes one of the most successful companies, such as "Litas" from Pozarec, which was in the old Yugoslavia one of the best and most secure auto transport companies, has been sold. Now they start closing from city to city certain bus stops and certain lines, so the citizens are also deprived of the transport. This included companies, or taxi associations, which set out to transport citizens at about 15 to 20km in the local area with this price that is now on the market. That's what citizens can handle. However, with this imposition that you are now planning and new liquid gas excises, it will surely add up. As far as we can see, according to the draft budget, and also by the strategy this government has, there is nothing better to expect the citizens of Serbia. It's only likely that you and your coalition partners are expecting an even better life, and the citizens are living worse and worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3860	Thank you. Here's a colleague, on the amendment, MP Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3861	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to waste my time with my colleagues, and I'm going to be very brief. We are witnessing that in recent years, the last two or three years, the use of liquid oil gas has been experiencing real expansion in Serbia. We know where the liquid oil gas is imported from Russia. Now, Mr. Minister, I have one question to express and bring it to the citizens of Serbia. My suspicion is that this is the influence of an oil lobby that imports crude oil, not from Russia, but from other countries, and we know that it was a very big influence from importers, especially processed oil derivatives, and we know that these derivatives were mainly imported from Western companies. I suspect that these imports of liquid oil gas, primarily one eco-like energy, are tripping, as oilers say, dirty oil derivatives. I have my suspicions and yet I have to express my suspicion that there was a lobbying of oil suppliers by Western companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3862	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I personally don't think the order of steps is the best. First, by some logic of common sense, tax laws were to be adopted, or amendments, and then the budget was to be adopted. Now, we've already adopted the budget and everything proposed by these tax laws has already been calculated into the new budget. Now we are where we are and we must adopt and accept as suggested here, without the possibility of any change. I just want to remind you that there was an opportunity to change something, because the MP group G17 plus seven days ago discussed here in the sense that this member, or the said excise on liquid oil gas, was deleted in front of this bill, or that they were not introduced at all, and then it would significantly disrupt and change the essence of this law, and hence the budget that has already been adopted. Namely, just to remind you, seven days ago, MP G17 plus debated in that sense that this excise on correct oil gas should not be imposed, that the G17 parliamentary group would vote against it and called from this pay phone and other MPs to vote. Of course, he cited a good argument that I support, as well as the MPs of the SRS, because they proposed the same amendment that would come to the agenda immediately after this. At that time, it was certain that this amendment had a chance to pass in this House, i.e. that this excise duty would not be introduced at all. I am speaking for reasons to clarify or clarify the character of this one policy or Group G 17 plus, a policy which had arguments against this law seven days ago, and after a few days the same group, or the same MP, withdrew the proposed amendment, with some reason to comply with the will of his boss, or party leader. Of course, it's a party policy we're familiar with. In this context, I would also like to point out to the citizens of Serbia something related to the G 17 Plus party, and it happened a few days ago in Uzic. Namely, a press conference was held in Uzic a few days ago in the organisation of the youth or youth G 17 plus, where they said that Mladjan Dinkic as party leader, 6 months after the election, wanted to reward his prominent activists, youth G 17 plus, who participated in the campaign very successfully, crossed the censorship, and entered parliament. Now they are rewarded by 30 activists, going on a seven-day vacation or visiting Paris, or France. Now a logical question is being raised here, how come he remembered Mladjan Dinkic after six months of the election to reward his activists? Why didn't he do it right after the election? He knew the result, he knew he had entered Parliament. Of course, he didn't have the courage, because it costs, those seven days in Paris for 30 people. Now that he has finally entered the government and won the ministry with a lot of money at his disposal, he can now honor more than 30 young people from his party, of course, on the cost of Serbian citizens. Mr Dinkic has a lot of funds available from this budget and can behave so arrogantly, of course, he will be sponsored, as Mr Dinkic has also adopted tourism in his ministry, so there are a lot of investments there and there are a lot of agencies dealing with these affairs. They'll find sponsors to sponsor all of it nicely. Of course, they will be adequately rewarded by Dinkic, but all over the back of Serbian citizens. As far as excise duty on liquid oil gas is concerned, if you look at the argument given by the Government, in your report that does not accept these amendments and the reasoning contained in the budget, you will see that it is prescribed. Literally, the budget explanation and the reasoning from this Government notice is also prescribed, only one data differs, and this is a projected TNG price for the final consumer, so the budget mentions a figure of 50 dinars per litre, and in the Government's report of 40. Just to remind the minister and the government, the liquid oil gas has already been collected on the market seven days ago, although the law has not yet been passed, although these six excise dinars have not yet been calculated, it has already accumulated. I wonder now, after the adoption of this law, whether the price will remain 40 dinars or only then will this 6 dinar excise, or 10, be added after the new 2008 year. On the other hand, it is very contradictory, in the government's explanation it stands, quote – it is proposed to extend the subject of taxation of oil derivatives and liquid oil gas for motor vehicles, and given the significant annual consumption of this product. Between 2003 and 2005, consumption increased three times, to say in the same paragraph at the end, that this would not cause an increase in costs in the economy, as liquid oil gas is used very little for commercial purposes. What does that mean? This means that the largest number of consumers are citizens, ordinary people and natural persons, and the poorest layers, because it is the cheapest power for motor vehicles to drive. Now, even the G17 MP cited a number, it is likely that a man is informed because he has some information that other MPs do not have, that there are about 150,000 users of this energy in Serbia. It's mostly about, and the government here admits, about ordinary citizens as users of this energy. Now you see, if an ordinary citizen, the poorest, who barely survives and uses this energy as the cheapest and raises the price, and now it's already up by 30%, when this law comes into force, and if it's still being corrected, maybe after New Year's, when the excise goes up to 10 dinars, it'll add up even more, if you increase 50% by one year or less than a year, you see what a blow to the pocket of a common, poorest citizen in Serbia. On the other hand, we're talking about gas as the greenest fuel. Consider that the gas device we are installing in our vehicles costs over 1000 euros. The installation of this device costs over 1000 euros on newer cars, ask around a little, buddy, and you'll see. The tuning of the device is also very expensive, and if we're saying that we want to speed up and motivate citizens to use this gas more as the most ecologically pure, then we can't and should not burden them in this way. If an ordinary mortal is to be paid for this device, the installation and use of gas after 100,000 miles and after five years, he has no interest in installing it. Therefore, with these measures and this trend that existed to these measures in Serbia, increasing consumption and use of liquid oil gas, we stop this and there will be a drop in use, i.e. consumption for these purposes for motor vehicles. In addition to the bad effect I mentioned, it's a blow to the home budget or to the budget and to the pocket of an ordinary man. So again, we're going in the opposite direction from the aspect of ecological importance and we're going to use more of these environmental polluting oil derivatives again. I'd just like that. I would point to what is present. As the government's initiative, there is no argument given by the government to introduce this excise, especially since it says in one place that income is below a billion dinars in this half-year. It is not about the large income that the state will have from this excise duty, it could have been replaced in another way, and in particular it could have been achieved and had no excise duty on imports of these juices etc. By doing so, we have opened our domestic market, which has been completely open to foreign goods since 2000, and we are further suffocating our domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3864	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3865	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the topic of excise duty on liquid gas and crude oil brings us back to one topic that has been forgotten in these stories about various criminal activities of people now in high office both in the current government and in the previous government, which is the story of Syrian oil and Russian gas. It's a story about people who've been dealing with the import of these energys, and that's the story of who made it possible for them. It's one of the ministers in the previous and current government. It is one of the people whose choice was to be made by the end of the first regular session, and it is called the Governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. The ruling coalition is avoiding the story, although it is a constitutional obligation. So, these people dealing with the imports of energy, the same governor of the National Bank, Radovan Jelasic, enabled them to trade with those money that was received by the sale of the "Mobtel". Now I ask you, how is it possible for individuals on the market to place the money they get by selling "Mobtel"? The same individuals were buying out cash registers and making millions, and they were again allowed by the man who was to be elected governor here in the National Assembly, not to abuse the Constitutional Law. The story again of Euroaxis Bank and then the governor, then the finance minister, then the economy minister, inevitably leads to the National Savings and Abuses and Crimes for formation, and later for privatisation, and then for the sale of National Savings. The story, as we mention the VAT, inevitably leads to why the debate on the election of the governor of the National Bank is not opened, and what I repeat for the third time is an obligation under the Constitutional Law, in order to inevitably raise the question so-called. Jelasic's villas and tax evasion by the governors of the National Bank and the one still in place. I have here a complete correspondence where Mr. Nebojsa Misic offered to buy that villa for a million euros through his lawyers, and here, that's his lawyer's letter. This would be all the more sensational, cheap and naive, and getting soft political points, if it weren't for the person of the governor of the National Bank. Is there a democratic state in the world that presupposes to be legal, where the governor of the National Bank scuttles taxes and nothing at all, and his advisor gets arrested in an affair called "Coffer" and then adventures? It happens in Serbia. That is why it is avoided to discuss it in this House, by violating the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution. So that's one subsequent policy that throws this whole story, which is life and significance, into another plan. But this man belongs to a stranger whose nothing is sacred. Here's another example. It is that they are not excise, but it is similar – customs, to see how this party works and how that power works. This is a memo sent by the President of the Municipality of Loznica to the Director of Customs Administration, Mr. Dragan Jelinić, where it is said: "Respected, according to the agreement, I present to you the proposal of three candidates for entry into the employment relationship in the customs office of Sabac". Members of the party indicated their names. It is regulatedly approved and paraphrased by Mr Dragan Jelinic and those people will be admitted into a working relationship. It's abuse, it's nepotism and it's crime. These things should be handled by the prosecutor. Of course, it is the same man who, when the signatures for his impeachment have been collected from the mayor or president of the Municipality of Loznica, changes the municipal electoral commission, but will be reassembled and more signatures, because these things cannot be tolerated in a single legal state. They shut down what he was collecting for the reconstruction of the "Hope" monastery through his personal account. But this one's coming up, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3866	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Anyone else want a word? The amendment or the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the rise in excise duties and the rise in gas prices, which will follow immediately after the adoption of this law, I must say that my personal view is that the development of a new economic doctrine is under way by the current government, given that we have more elements from which we see that there is a serious doctrine that they are developing. A month and a half ago, they raised the price of electricity by 15% and said it would not affect the cost of life at all. Great. My proposal is to immediately increase by 150 percent and the effect will likely be very low. Cover the budget deficit with this increase and excellent, people satisfied. Here we are increasing the excise duty that will normally cause a chain reaction to the increase in services and prices of products, thus affecting the price rise, the increase in services and the total inflation. On the other hand, a few days ago we saw in the draft budget, later the budget was adopted, that salaries and payments to civil servants were increased by 13.6%. If we add the planned inflation of 6.5 per cent to that, then the increase is a total of 20 per cent. Again, the same doctored economists from the ruling coalition tell us that this will not affect the cost of life at all. But part of the ruling coalition says it will. The governor, on several occasions, has, in recent days, decidently claimed, and those surrounding it, that the budget deficit would be over 50 billion. Who made the budget? Was it this coalition or DS? Let's get along, whether the deficit is 13 billion, what we adopted, or it's going to be 50 billion. This people likes clean bills and it's time for clean bills, but the current government doesn't want to do that. Minister, it's your responsibility. Some doctored in your ranks can push both, but the proposal is yours and you're responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3868	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3869	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the session of SO Pancheva and I can also tell you that I am asking the public, asking the question of the Government, the first president of the National Assembly and the Committee on Environmental Protection. Ladies and gentlemen, for days of monitoring in which significant funds have been invested in certain places on the territory of Panchevo Municipality is not working. We learned this today from the competent officials of the democratic bloc, who is in power in the Panchevo Municipality. Let me also inform you that over 800 million dinars have been collected in Panchev over the last few years in the name of the ecological tax, and that these funds are not directed in the direction in which they need to be. I ask the question and ask for an answer – which is why the monitoring in Pancheva does not work, the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection and the resolution committee to give me an answer, I have the right to ask a question on behalf of voters and citizens of Pancheva Municipality, who are in a difficult position. Tonight, a part of the city was supposed to be evacuated because there was poisoning and enormously high percentages of the pollution of various pollutants, i.e. Petrochemis, Rafineries and Azotare. It wasn't tonight that the DS siren was playing in Pancheva and President SO Panchevo couldn't turn on the siren. The president of the Republic probably wasn't in Belgrade, that in 15 minutes he and Bojan Pajtic of Novi Sad, as if he had arrived by helicopter, would have arrived to participate in an election campaign to prove that they are taking great care of the citizens of Panchev. I have to tell you, the situation in Panchev is extremely difficult. Dear fellow MPs, you have developed a programme of the NIP in which the Ministry of Finance previously called into this plan and the programme indicated that only polluted Obrenovac, Lazarec and Kostolac, and Panchevo was extremely polluted and was first in the state, followed by Bor. We're not saying these cities are free of pollution. I request an answer from the competent department of environmental protection to answer the question to the citizens of Panchev, and to me, I have the right and obligation, which is why the monitoring in Panchev is not working. I say again, tonight the citizens were to be evacuated from the lower part of the town of Vojlovice, then Topole, Sodarre, Sacrifice, and the city center. I've been saying this a lot, but it doesn't seem like anyone who's in charge of it in the country can hear this. No money for Panchevo is given when it comes to environmental protection. The dirtiest technology is in Panchev. Petrochemical products, in last year's huge amount of their products and only since the country's exports, and this government has had over 200m euros in revenue. What remains for the citizens of Panchev and that municipality to improve environmental protection? Nothing. Therefore, I ask the answer to the question – why does the Ministry of Environmental Protection not intervene and take appropriate measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3870	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The National MP, Dr Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 6th Amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3871	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, here, we've been having a debate here for a few days before this minister, and I'd like to say just one remark, that there seems to be something going on here that's not right. In fact, Parliament Speaker Mr. Dulic told us at the end of the previous session that there will be no direct TV broadcasts during a TV period, due to transmission from Wimbledon. I'm afraid one insidious way is not to introduce a new practice, to gradually test public opinion, to delay in the late morning something that we are talking about here. I wish I was wrong and I wasn't right, but it's suspicious to me, and I think it's a transitional step that should lead to the abolition of these TV broadcasts, although the president himself has decided quite positively, and he doesn't think it should be done. This debate that we have and that afternoon absolutely convinces me that today when we talk about the newly-compromised Dossovian government, we can freely say that it is an unnatural government. You see, we were discussing whether to release VAT food for small children, for children's equipment. No one from the DS, this Camelot party, the yellow-red party, has reported to say no "yes" or "no". The minister's explanation was ridiculous, where he resented us for missing analysts, for us not to pay attention to it, and we know how much the administration is. In 2000, there were 200,000 civil servants, now 260,000. I'm sure it's administratively clean, if we turn down the soldiers and the army, 20,000 more. What kind of frames are these? We're all well aware. We're going to our banks. Go to some bank, try the most common transaction to end abroad, the simplest, there's panic. They can't do anything for you. All incompetent and unsupervised personnel. That's the kind of personnel in these ministries, and then we're transferred to lack of analyticals. Where's your analyst, I wonder? Let's just go back to the amendment. In front of the SRS, I asked for article 6 to be deleted, as this article 6 sets out the tax on whether the liquid oil gas for motor vehicles to be powered will be excised and will amount to 6.00 dinars per kilogram in the period from 31 December 2007 to 10.00 dinars in January 2008. My predecessors have already talked a lot on this subject here, and they're clear two reasons. The first one is ecological, and the second one is economic. Economically in the interest of citizens, not in the interest of the state. Since you resented us not being analysts, I might be a little boring, maybe I'll speak inappropriately, but I'll try to discuss this problem analytically. Today, we have over two million chemicals on the planet that are toxic and harmful. Gas and oil derivatives are absolutely contaminants of our environment, biosphere contaminants, and there are more reasons why oil and gasoline derivatives, especially unleaded, but also lead gas that is still in use here, are very harmful. For what? First of all, there's a lot of carcinogenic matter that regular gasoline, including unleaded, emits by combustion. Now we drive motor vehicles and use them for other purposes. Burning products are very harmful, especially carbon oxides, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide and they create a phenomenon of rain or rain that is responsible for the warming of our planet. It's the phenomenon of a glass garden. It is known that Americans will not suppress certain international contracts to protect themselves from it. You have now heard from my predecessor from the SRS, my colleague, the distinguished lawyer, fellow Jojic, what is the situation in Panchev. You have heard that there is no monitoring, but in Belgrade we have three automatic monitoring sites, where exhaust gasses are determined, harmful matter in the atmosphere, 17 semi-automated and three, four other stations that determine it. You know what traffic is now in Belgrade and now someone would say like this – well, we use 340 tons of oil per year per capita, so that's not so much. They use more Croats, Hungarians, Austria than 1,000 tonnes. We're not that big a consumer. We'll say, by the number of cars we have 220 cars per 1,000 inhabitants, others have a lot more, so it's not spending. It is consumption, we have pollution and lead and these products that cause large cancer. The problem is one, why better is this liquid oil gas or gas, as they call it. It's one mixture of propane and butane, and when you have a 70 percent propane, it's a very quality blend, i.e. Those who use today say we have an unquality gas. Yeah, they throw in a lot more thighs that don't have octan power and that's not so good. Why is it convincing to use this ecologically better? I'll be free to tell you, it's almost completely burnt, there's no loss like at the gas station due to partial combustion. No condensation on the link does not reduce the oily ability. So much less emits what we don't like, carbon monoxide, especially in the empty walk when engines work. There are fewer other oxides, nitrogen, which are harmful to health and especially those of carcinogenic matter. So, no lead at all, no benzol, no sulfur dioxide, no aldehydes, and very few particles of soot. Now you're going to tell me – what you're telling us now, we may not be interested in, the minister especially in his company, because it's a society that only interests the profits of a certain group of people and nothing else. Of course, you will say, "Come on, this analyst of yours is not yet available from the economic point of view, it is not complete, and we are little and we are dazzled." What we're losing, say, is if this thing that used to exist was abolished, so a few years ago, it was abolished by Dossovan authorities again, who wanted to popularize the use of this fuel. Exactly, for environmental reasons, there was talk, and now they're reaching for it again. If we say that it has grown by the last three years from 60 tons to 270 tons of liquid oil gas consumption and is expected to be about 500 million liters, six times 500 liters, that's three billion dinars. I speak in liters, but is it true? Shall we agree? I think we will. It's a loss. Why do I argue that this loss is negligible? Exactly for two reasons. We're rich. Thirty percent of the absolutely poor, 10% of them are rich, and then if you take a category of taxi drivers, who live and feed their family and who should be able to transport us healthy today, then we stand up for that category of people and that category of citizens who don't look very well, and they won't pollute this environment. What's the second reason I'm calling for this to come down, you're going to tell us where the money comes from, where you're going to find it, you're always saying that, you're asking us to find the money. I can tell you, as a doctor, that's what I said, Kandiungr, former World Bank Office Director, that's the bank that wrote "a world without poverty", that's my ideal, right there in Washington, in that 19th street that writes that floscula, she said – in Serbian healthcare of 2-4% of gross national income goes to corruption. Stop corruption, what you don't want and don't do, because you're direct participants in it, so you're going to get a lot more than you're losing three billion this way. One percent of gross national income, now I need to talk to you so you don't tell me if it wasn't a qualified conversation, was calculated by your colleague, Jorgenka, about 19 billion dinars. I said a little bit, for you, worse than I said less. Why am I saying all this? The health situation of our population is very difficult. In addition, cardiologically we disappear from these areas and our main problem is that the health service and this government, in which you sit, does not realize that the primary task is to protect the service, preserve and this biological potential of the nation and survive in these areas. The problem is that year after year, more and more of us are dying, more and more of us are suffering from lung disease, cancer and heart disease. I don't want to read the numbers, here, the Bureau of Statistics of Serbia issued exact figures this year, where they are seen taxically, if seen in 2004 and 2005, what is this increase. There are thousands of patients, especially women with us, from cancer in the last two years. It's these very substances that you're promoting gasoline and oil derivatives that are causing this to happen. In Vienna 30 years ago, public traffic moved to gas. America is believed to have 17 million vehicles on gas in 2010. The whole world's headed that way, you're now pushing almost equalizing the price. There will be a symbolic difference in the price between gasoline. You can nod all you want, one third now is the price of regular gasoline, gas. You've heard, you've already raised the price, you haven't passed the laws or adopted 40 dinars, and when this comes to life, that price will go away and it'll be the difference of 10 dinars. When someone calculated what has to be paid for the installation, it's not every car 1,000 euros, it can be 350, it's got various systems, Zastava embellishes German Italian attested systems with us, and then it's going to be a huge sum. What are you doing? You're destroying people's health. You are against the most endangered categories of this society, not letting it ride safely. Yeah, you can, you got state vehicles and you don't care how to drive a cab driver, how to drive a regular man. All that matters to you is where you can tap and grab. Someone here said they don't serve excise duties for discipline, for some imports, for export. They serve you, excises are your income from 3% to 5% of gross national income, and they have served you, the Dossov authorities, always to settle your imbalances and to come up with funds. It's a common-known thing. Don't tell us some things that aren't. Finally, to justify what I said about you being an unnatural government, here's evidence. Under the criminal law of Serbia, Article 266 states - the introduction of dangerous substances, the processing and storage of waste materials in our country is prohibited. At a session in 2005, the Serbian government, I have the exact material, has adopted a regulation that introduces a single code that no one can understand, the code is 3006-80-00-00, a waste pharmaceutical product, in customs law and decisions on the classification of goods of imports and exports. In this way, the possibility is open to import waste into our country. According to international conventions, not to list them and not to quote them, I don't have time, it's absolutely forbidden to import into a country that has no processing capacity, that waste. We are most likely importing waste, it is Labus, its insistence has been adopted by this regulation and under the code is hiding this possibility. We're probably importing nuclear waste here. If that were true, Danish Socialists in parliament launched an initiative a year ago and something and said it would stop importing nuclear waste into Serbia. You're such a power, and those measures of yours are unnatural. That's why Serbian radicals can't deal absolutely with this kind of policymaking and I suggest that other people who have consciousness and civil morality support this amendment a little bit and delete this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3872	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3873	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will support the SRS amendment on these issues. Let me say why this amendment will not be accepted. Col. Ivan Zivadinovic, MP from the G17 parliamentary club, submitted an amendment in the same text, and I was absolutely sure that the amendment would be accepted, because apparently with these several opposition parliamentary groups, with the support of the G17, the amendment would receive a sufficient number of votes and would be adopted. My colleague Zivadinović, who is otherwise, I must say, as far as I'm concerned by a very correct man and a good MP, I always have an open space when I want to criticize and praise, so he was forced, he was forced, unfortunately, to withdraw the amendment and that is what the MPs have been informed of. So much for who owns the mandate. Those who speculate, that the MPs, e, Mr Ivan Zivadinovic, who at one point used his own rather than the party head, submitted a meaningful amendment and was forced to withdraw it. This amendment will therefore not be accepted. And no need, I fully support the argument Mr. Momchilov offered here, so we will vote in favour of this amendment. Let me just say, Mr. Momchilov, it's not the approximate price of gas right now. No, the gas consumption is a hundred miles higher than gasoline, so we can say that with the introduction of excise duty, it is now practically almost reduced to egal. So, in that sense, it's even worse than you said. With all the arguments offered, I still expect someone to change their mind, but I know it won't be possible. I know how the government works, I know it's not possible to settle with the finance minister and the government unless it's the subject of a special agreement, and if there is a compromise, then make sure that the amendment to such a thing is submitted either by the National Assembly or by the Vice President, since it is in this tranche, so to speak, only two amendments that have just been submitted by Mr. Dulic and Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3874	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalović. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3875	Ladies and gentlemen, you can say the same amendment as Amendment 2 submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. We've already discussed this. I'd just like to look back on some of the other things we mentioned here, actually, that we didn't mention. First of all, to clarify one thing, none of us have called for a boycott of Slovenian goods, how you want to present it, but it is much more expensive to buy goods from domestic producers, besides that, and we live, than it is to fill this budget. I'd point to one more thing. Let us force you to be Westerners, to apply the principle of reciprocity, well, if you already lift the excise duty on imports of non-alcoholic beverages, so how many "Fructal" juices enter Serbia, and so much, please, to be exported to Slovenia. For what? You are witnessing, entering any kiakaunt or large store, a large megamarket, you will see simply on the rafts of the flood goods of broad consumption from Slovenia. Something like that, if you're almost in Slovenia, you won't see, not even one of those, as you like to say, brands, and I say that's a Serbian-type trade name, shadow cheese, domestic meat producers, especially in this case, the liquor manufacturer. I may be bored, but I have to appeal to you one more time to keep this excise in due course to protect domestic producers. Believe me, these last hour's reactions have been really burning. We've been contacted by a lot of domestics, mostly management and employees of domestic producers, and believe me, they'll really keep that promise to protest in front of your office, that they'll find a way into the government. You'll leave a large number of employees and their families on the street. Here's what I'm saying. We'll discuss this case again safely in two or three months. I believe the effect is devastating. Maybe I'm overqualified that you're engaged in terrorism in the economy, maybe I'm not. I'm going to give you another example from Japan, a land of union tradition and new technology. There, one of the resolute ministers killed himself, committed harakiri. Do you, Mr. Minister, if there are negative effects in the economy, do you not have to commit suicide, but do at least some honorable act and resign as well as the Prime Minister to whom you belong? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3876	On the amendment, Mr. Arsic called in his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are now coming to that part of the story that I told both in the debate in principle and in the previous amendments. The government does not work in the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens. Why are you removing the excise? You say it's the EU's position and the World Trade Organisation's position, and you're introducing an excise on liquid gas used as a means of driving motor vehicles. Who did you give the money to? Importers of juices and manufacturers. How are you going to make up for your loss? By imposing an excise on something that you haven't burdened with these fiscal charges so far. Who's gonna pay for that? Citizens of Serbia. What Serbian citizens? Those who are the poorest. Are they the largest in Serbia? They did. You take from the poor girl to make more money and this government does it, nothing else. Explanation – EU. I don't care about the EU! And I already said that once. You, when you introduce a country that can join the EU, will not need any relief tax for goods of wide-ranging consumption from imports. First, bring her to this, don't ruin everything in Serbia that she can do and what she can do with any product, to provide workers with salaries from which to support their families. I guess the goal of a serious government is to work in the interest of the citizens, regardless of who these citizens voted for, whether for the SRS or for the thief's block. This is now an obvious scam for Serbian citizens that you are burdening the poorest with another fiscal giving. I'm just going to say that one member of the law you're proposing has introduced the past government of Vojislav Kostunica, on the proposal of then-responsible Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and that was ahead of the elections, as I said, all possible tax releases are being made when elections are to be discussed. When the election is over and the people are deceived by who knows which way, then you pay back and tax even more than it was before the election. That's how this government works. There will be more amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS and I will go out safely to prove it, not to you, because you know what I'm talking about, but to the citizens of Serbia, how much you give in to the rich and how much you take from the poor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3878	The word has a Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3879	I, ladies and gentlemen, will say something very briefly, of course, that there is a difference in whether the EU or the World Trade Organisation is something we are seeking or not, but it is not my goal to open up political issues here, but rather to refer to the question of figures and equations, on the one hand, liquid gas, and on the other hand, excise juices on juices, because it says here you are reducing, and here you are increasing, here you favour it, and why don't you do the opposite. So one of the previous MPs has given one global calculation of the figure relating to liquid gas and it is more or less consistent with our estimates, and when it comes to dinars, it turns out to be about three billion on an annual basis. When it comes to this excise, it amounted to 67 million dinars in the previous year, which means that the relationship between what we get on liquid gas and the relationship between what we lose on excise duty is close to 1:50, between, so 1:40 and 1:50 and cannot be equated. I would conclude with this, with another request, and that is, that MPs also have in mind the fact that, regardless of what the fuel is, that the fuel is used nevertheless to make the vehicle roads, that these roads should be maintained, and that there is some company that deals with it, which is in the deficit and which has to be gasked out of it, or that there is a distribution of all those who use those roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3880	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask the Minister not to insult the MPs because we are not stupid. First, excises are purely budget revenue and as you spill from value added tax, from customs, so you can tax on any company that deals with road maintenance, though, a bit of stealing and a little lying, but it doesn't matter. Second thing, Mr. Minister, I didn't expect you to run this fast. In addition to introducing a excise duty on liquid gas used to drive motor vehicles, first to 8, then to 10 dinars since 1 January 2008, which you reduced, or abolished, excise juices, which you don't say, Mr. Minister, how much of the Republic of Serbia's budget will lose revenue from the suspension of excise duty on aircraft fuel and kerosene. Why don't you just say so and we'll figure out the parameters. Why don't you say, Mr. Minister, how much damage will the budget of the Republic of Serbia be due to the reduction of excise duties on coffee? When all these restrictions, i.e. the release of excise duties, are equal to this, I'm very interested in what number we're going to get.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3882	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ( b) To Article 8? According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3883	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will take the opportunity to question Minister Cvetkovic, I am sorry he is not present and Mr Vlahovic. I think he's the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, and the Rules of Procedure allow that, and I will certainly address it. So, according to Articles 2 to 6, my predecessors told me what we were worried about here. So they found out what we're not worried about. We don't care about babies, about food, about children of the most vulnerable categories, we don't worry about the protection of domestic juice producers, about water and non-alcoholic drinks, we don't worry about taxi drivers, and they're the ones who upset most of the failed privatisation of certain transport companies. Mr. Minister, first of all, I would ask you a question, since you advised us how to overwrite some of the road maintenance funds, and this advice, should we understand in the context of the expert advice while you were the director of the Privatisation Agency, because you were very successful in the Kruševec advice on how to privatise the chemical industry, so it's done, if I'm not wrong about CesMekon, and my colleagues will come out to say that this is successfully done, that laughter is probably ironic, and the data exists. I would ask Mr. Vlahovic, since "The parish produces juices in Krusevec and the surrounding area, there are many juice producers who are successful, why are they not advertised here? Why just the parish, even though I'm glad it's successful. There are also privates who are successful juice producers, and that's the private interest we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3884	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3885	I'm a little surprised, ladies and gentlemen, by not accepting amendments by the government, which is capable and ready to propose such laws, which the Robinhudish law has misunderstood, so they take away from the poor, and give the rich, and the answer why I'm not being accepted is how much proof this government, in addition to everything else, is demagogue. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 that is Article 14 of the Basic Law, where it says, (I read Article 14.) "for coffee (cheese, fried, ground and coffee extract) excise is paid at a rate of 40", then crossed, and it says "30%". So, when we talked about excise duties on fruit juices, so on juices whose raw material base is produced in Serbia and produced in Serbia, then it couldn't, then it releases excise duties on the importer and equates in that way and the one that digs six months and the one that pays 300 euros, pushes someone into a pocket, or 3,000 euros, and imports, gets a license to import. Here we release coffee excises by 10%, instead of 40% is 30%. Who makes coffee in Serbia, who imports coffee into Serbia? 'Don Coffee', 'Grand Coffee', I don't know there's another five-six tycoons that are very attached either to certain ministers or to some other tycoons that are tied to this 'yellow-blue' coalition, bent back-to-back coalition, and as the occasion of this heat affects, I don't think even Solana's glue will be able to withstand this because they're already feeling dissonant tones in that government. However, it is necessary to endure a final decomposition. I suggested that the coffee excise be kept at the old level, at 40% level. The reason is very simple. Would it, Mr. Minister, if you took off your excise duty by 10%, and the price of coffee would go down 10%? He won't. Who are you pushing in the pocket of that 10%? Fat geese, import company owners, import lobbys, you fill their pockets. Why are you filling your pockets like that? Well, you know, that's not for nothing. What Branko Ćopić says is "I know you," I am sure this is not a reduction in excise duty to improve any conditions, but a reduction in excise duty due to the previous agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the voting day press the green button, adopt this amendment. You will not harm the citizens of Serbia, you can damage a few of the import lobby, especially this "cafe" lobby, because, as you are about to go into an affair, I expect soon to have an affair of coffee importers, or "cafe affair", as you will call it. Wherever you shut up, whatever the affair is, it's yellow from above. I also believe this affair will be yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3886	Thank you, Mr. Momir. Here, Zdravko Topalović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3887	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get one thing straight first. Normally, we apriors aren't against the reduction in excise duty, but we are when that excise is reduced by 10% for coffee, and we're charged with liquid oil gas. Here, let's look back at the coffee shop in Serbia. Namely, we know "Droga Portorož" through the Kolinska concert controls 90% of Serbia's coffee market. I have to tell you something, the coffee that's being imported, the Colin importing, that is, "Droga Portorož" is the most invaluable "Robusta" from Vietnam, means the cheapest. In doing so, by reducing the excise duty of 10%, you know that coffee is a stock market, there won't be a significant cost of coffee, because the producers, specifically in this case, are going to justify that, say, coffee on the stock market that day, and I'm saying they're importing the worst "Robust" from Vietnam. The example works, sometimes, in your own time, while you're all growing up, you're standing up for a C coffee, not a commercial. That coffee was extremely good quality, I'm talking about traditional coffee, and it's from "Robushta" from India. There's one more thing I have to say, right now in Serbia, there's a few domestic coffee producers doing. First of all, these are some local ovens and of these major manufacturers there is "Bambi", i.e. "Pascalin" from Pozharjevac and "Intermeco" from Belgrade, which has just gotten into trouble because he did not want to sell "Drogi" i.e. Grand and this Israeli company, which bought Don. The second thing, this importer absolutely controls the entire market for special coffees, it is a filter of coffee and espresso, conditioning its final consumers with sales quotas and coffee, when you are conditioned and taking the coffee maker. What's interesting about traditional coffee, you can ask any customer of the "Colinska" i.e. "Droge Portorož," when you buy traditional coffee for your store, means for further sale, a system tied to trade will violate the anti-monopol laws, the law requires you to buy one percentage and a bar coffee, their coffee. So they entered the Serbian market at the small door. So, through the domestic trade name, as you say, they force their coffees, too, so we're at the end of the line against this 10% excise reduction, from 40% to 30%. We know that it won't bring cheap coffee, one trend will continue, above all, to consume and spend bad quality coffee, meaning "Robushte", which is imported from the market from the cheapest market and above all a mixture of barley mixes. We know that while the domestic coffee producers worked, it couldn't have happened. So, another one in a series of poor government proposals based primarily on lobbyes currently in Serbia's market, i.e. on importers, specifically this time, from Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3888	Thank you. The word is from Saša Valjarevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on this amendment, although my colleagues have already said a lot about why the SRS and the SRS parliamentary group are making an amendment to reduce the item from 40% to 30%, because it does not improve and reduce the price of coffee to make the citizens better. I will give an example from my district, i.e. Braničev County, which is the Municipality of Velika Gradište, where Mr. Vukicevic, otherwise owner of the "Grand Coffee", bought most of the Silver Lake in a private public partnership. It's a tourist complex. The SRS then participated in the government and agreed with one part when the price was marketable, for that area that was then offered in the first part of privatisation. We then agreed, accepted, and we support the development of tourism in the Great Gradist and on the Danube, because there is new employment and improvement of the budget of the Great City. However, in the next stage of privatisation, Mr. Vukevic offered an unrealisticly low price. The SRS and the parliamentary committee club refused to accept it, then the coalition was torn apart, in order to introduce temporary measures in the Municipality of Velika Gradište. Normally, given that the parliamentary majority here makes, let's say, a democratic block, the president of that temporary council is from the DS. Normally, it all ended at the request of Mr Vučićevic, so the complete complex of the Silver Lake was purchased. Part of the Tresetište, which has an estimated high value, is bought, retail, as a schizo, meaning as a land that is totally unprocessed and abandoned. It has a high economic value, for which there are papers, and the company "Ramsky butt", which managed it, is now brought before bankruptcy. Their workers now expect Mr. Vukicevic or one of those tycoons, who intend to buy it, since the land from this Tresetic site is used for mushrooms, because the state or social, which once functioned, such as the Fruit Product in Požarevec, has long been privatised or no longer functioning, but the citizens themselves founded these associations and in their private facilities started the production of mushrooms. Now they're going to pay an enormously high price for that country that's used in the manufacture of mushrooms, and it's bought for an unreal low price. We wrote to various ministries at the time, we put in protests, in the sense that that part of the land was not sold. At that time, however, the congregation majority refused to accept it and there was a shooting of the coalition. Later, however, they were able to realize it. I think there will still be a court dispute, since the company "Frame rit" has also launched an initiative to initiate a court case and to determine whether the estimated value of the land has been purchased at market prices. However, as long as this democratic majority prevails, I do not believe that, because the judiciary is not independent, so that the tycoons, such as Mr. Vukicevic, who owns the "Grand Coffee", will be able to create both the level of excise duties and all other legal acts that suit them, so that only they can get richer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3890	Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3891	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a moment, I will step out of this topic and, under the provisions of Article 226, request an appropriate explanation and notice. Why did I report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Because I got a call for tomorrow's session of the Kosovo Committee. Imagine what the draft agenda is – Presentation of the Kosovo budget. I guess that should have been before the budget was adopted, rather than post-festum, like, oh, God, we're taking care of Kosovo. Speaking of which, I would like to remind you that the State Negotiating Team, which was obliged to do so three months ago, when the negotiations in Vienna were completed, in accordance with the resolution brought by this National Assembly at the First Session, was obliged to submit a report on the results of the negotiations, that the State Negotiation Team had absolutely ignored its commitment to Parliament and that until today we had not received this Report. The ruling coalition or, rather speaking, the government has gone one step further. She made some kind of secret plan. Look, in Europe in the 21st century, we have secret plans and this secret plan has been passed on to Putin. We don't know what it says, what it says in that plan to resolve the fate and status of Kosovo and Metohija. Are we officially becoming some kind of province or more fluent Russia or an autonomous province of Russia? Is this coming back again that story of Russia's confederation – Belarus – Serbia? What exactly is this about? I guess the MPs first have to see what kind of proposal it is, to give the green light to that proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has joined the service of the president of Russia and the Parliament of Russia. The government's proposal is likely to be discussed first by the Russian Parliament. This does not lead to responsible state policy. Then we should not be surprised what is happening to us, in terms of Kosovo and Metohija, what is happening to us, because these quasinanationalists, kryptonianists, simply sell us the fog, constantly repeating their care for Kosovo and Metohija, but not explaining to the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija what, God forbid, can happen one day. It's an irresponsible policy. I remind you that this oath in Russia that it will preserve our cradle is an account without innkeepers. Well, the capital of Tsar Russia was Kiev. Kiev is today the capital of Ukraine, no longer Russia. Russia has given up its cradles, it's just hanging over a rope or rope with America because of its interests. Let's not get into that geopolitical thing right now. The state negotiating team, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister for Kosovo, was obliged to submit the report to the MPs, elected representatives of Serbian citizens, and to say what the plan says, first here. A friend of mine, Ilija Markovic of Novi Sad, sent me this morning an aphorism and said: "Those who read the Russian translation of the "Cackar" from Dostoyevski obviously put everything on one map," and so gambling with the fate of the work of state territory and citizens living there cannot end well.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3892	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? Here you go, Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Batic, there is an analogy, unfortunately, in Serbia as well. Prizren was an imperial city. The left and other monuments talk about it, so today it's not, today the capital of Serbia is Belgrade. So if we went far into history, who knows where we'd be. It's not a good analogy, it's counterproportional to what we want to achieve today. Regarding the amendment, Mr. Minister, most kindly please, extremely seriously, that if possible, you would give us an answer as to what led you to take the excise from 40% to 30%? The explanation that we got, about, in one sentence, that coffee was an article of extensive consumption and that was what was specific, I just can't believe that this was an argument. As poor as one family is in Serbia, it is not poor enough to buy 100 grams of coffee. The difference in the price of coffee, even if this principle applies, will be one, two, or three dinars per 100 grams of coffee. So it means nothing to families and citizens of Serbia, and for the budget it can mean a lot. So, most kindly, I ask you, because I don't understand what you were personally handling, if that was your idea, which was run by the government, because it amputated one of the important sources for the budget, and apparently the funds are missing in different positions. So I'm asking you very well-meaningly, to make it clear to me. It is possible that you have an argument that I cannot understand at this point, but I'm not sure that in this game, the numbers the government has done wisely. So, if possible, we get your vision of this reduction in excise duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3894	Mr. Batic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3895	I don't know if Mr. Baralic needed to mention me. I was talking about Russia's position. Of course, it's true what you said about our position in Kosovo and Metohija. However, you used the term "what we want", putting yourself in line with the government that you used to support in the previous term. I don't know what we want, because the government is running state policy by definition, and it needs to fit Parliament. I'm worried about one other thing. I am afraid that the topic of Kosovo will also be addressed by parliaments of some other countries, as they warn me and remind me of past experiences. I was an MP in several calls for this parliament and now I have been trying to initiate a debate on the future of Kosovo and Metohija. It's all ignored and you remember it. All of this has been ignored, so we had parallel institutions and Ramzi Kolgeti as president of some government of Kosovo and Metohija and Jusuf Zeinulahi, as president of the Kosovo Parliament and Metohija and Bujer Vukoshi as prime minister in the exile of Kosovo and Metohija, but the Serbian Parliament did not deal with the topic. I just want to impose a question of responsibility not to be late in all of this and to find out one morning that the Security Council or a series of individual recognitions have established and determined the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Then let's not listen to mourning for days here in Parliament and the patriotism contest again, when it's too late. You should always go to meet events. We are not going to meet events unless the State Negotiation Team has done what was required under the resolution of this Parliament. I'm just warning you what can happen. I'm talking about past experience, as far as Russia is concerned. They do not give us the right, or government, to believe in it, to give it no right, for everyone cares about their interests. Do you remember that big story - the Russian overseas fleet is moving to prevent NATO intervention and those archive footage from the then-TV garden, and today it's not much better, given who's leading it, it might still be traveling, and it can't get there. Let's think and take some of our fate and some of our futures into our own hands, not like gamblers, put it all on one card, and let it go to waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3896	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The replica has Mr. Baralic. Right? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3897	I think if you misread me, that would be the basis. There's nothing to argue about, except for one question. When I said "we" I meant the resolution that the MPs unanimously adopted. You weren't then, our parliamentary group wasn't involved, and there were several resolutions of Parliament, there were some in this. That's the first question. In terms of what you've been doing, allegedly with me, I also insist that they come to Parliament, a negotiating team, and say this or that, after those negotiations, this and what we've discussed. Mr. Dusan Petrovic, the current justice minister, spoke of this here as the condition of continuing any talks in Parliament; you remember that session in the House of National Assembly when we were verified of our mandates. We have no misunderstanding about it, so when I said "we" I meant the political will that was defined in the Resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3898	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. We are moving to Article 11 of the amendment by MP Sasa Valjarevic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Sasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 11. For what? This amendment refers to the introduction, i.e. the suspension of excise duty on air fuel, to kerosene. The thing is incomprehensible and surprising is that it is proposed in this proposal for a excise law that, in general, it proposes an increase in excise oil, liquid gas, or car gas for the poorest population of citizens. On the other hand, excise duties on naphtha derivatives used for aircraft purposes are reduced. The government's explanation is to reject this amendment. They probably don't even read the amendments to the SRS, I guess, given the reasons they give here. They really don't make any sense. They say, "In order to encourage the development of aviation, it is proposed to release excise duty on fuel and jet engines, kerosene, which the manufacturer sells directly to the end-user for aircraft purposes." You know, we're such a highly developed society and we're all on planes. Indeed now the citizens of Serbia will enjoy, given that they are flying from city to city, our country is so big, right now, they are planning to take Kosovo and Metohija from us, more and more reducing our state, and we are flying only across the country. Then they're really going to cut our airline tickets prices. You know why this is done. Their financials, their tycoons, they all have planes. They, people, drive a lot abroad, and they drive around here, and they look at the natural beauty of our country. They even go for coffee, you know, to Budva, to the Montenegrin coast, and they come back, so, you know. So it's probably an expense to them and to cut them down a little bit, given that so far it's been expensive kerosene, so now they can lift the excise on kerosene so that people can drive uninterrupted and not think about the price at all. That's why we're introducing the amendment I've had regarding article 5 on car gas. We're going to have to introduce him, and we have to, because we're allowing these tycoons, newly-compromised businessmen, to ride planes. We therefore need to burden someone, and we know who we will - the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It shows how the government plans to treat citizens as well, what its economic strategy and policy is, in this country. So, we're going to burden them, these cabbies and these people who are out of work, one way to survive today, and the tycoons and the rest of them are going to take off their excise duties so they can drive around the country unhindered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3900	Thank you, Sasha. He has Mr. Momir Markovic's word on the amendment, so Dr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3901	Here is that perverse system of values, the upside down of Robinhud's doctrine: take away from the poor, give to the rich. How many Serbian citizens have a plane? How many Serbian citizens know what kerosene is, that it has ever used kerosene? Kerosene can also be used as a petroleum, but this isn't a petroleum. You write all the derivatives that separate up to 380 degrees by fractional distillation, where they all stand out, remain just bitumen, bitumen and kerosene, of course. Now you'll release the plane owners. They will do you a favor to be transported around the world and it is not a problem that they are driving you from Serbia, the problem is that they are returning you. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask a question, please don't count this time on me, cut my time, because I want to ask a parliamentary question for the Serbian government. You see which minister will answer this question. I'm asking, whose company is Daxin? What does NIS import, or buy from it? How many employees does this company have, who owns it? Is there any relation or other connection between Mira Čukovic, the financial director of the "Rafineria" Novi Sad, and the owner of the company Daksin? But if I'm not satisfied with the answer, then I'm going to reveal the whole story. Is there any relation or other connection between Gordana Grbić, director of foreign trade in NAP, to Daxin and its owners? Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of paper is evidence of an incredible robbery committed in Serbia, or the oil industry of Serbia, right now. It is done for a little while, I expect an emergency answer and I ask you not to answer me as Velja Ilic replied – there is no legal opportunity to charge a commission from the one to whom the concession is given. I want the right answers, because I have a good part of these answers to these questions already. Also, I'm asking Minister Jocic to initiate the procedure, but not only to remain on criminal charges, but to examine who's wealthy here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3902	Thank you, Mr. Momir. Here you go, Doctor. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3904	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, supporting my colleagues' proposal from the SRS and just a few more notes. Look, we're discussing kerosene now. Kerosine is one of the most polluting oil products in the environment. It is known that in the United States the last 25 years the consumption of kerosene has tripled due to air traffic. It's most polluting the atmosphere today, of all the fuel we have at our disposal today, this particular matter. From the ecological point of view, you are now taking off the excise duty of something that is most toxic and which is most likely to harm the possible health of this people, but you are going to introduce an excise in something that is least environmentally unacceptable for this consumption. There's another fact we absolutely shouldn't skip. That's what my predecessor colleague said, so who's riding the plane? Like it or not, mostly people in better economic conditions, and that's a fact. I'm not against us driving in cheaper ways and airplanes, but, please, you're now denying that most people who unfortunately don't live on great economic opportunities, and the possibility of driving in a cheaper and healthier way. When you came out, Mr. Minister, I didn't understand what you were saying, to say exactly what you were about to do, but we can't accept it. I have one logic and it's very simple that logic. During 2004, we had 6 million 192 thousand reported diseases in general practice doctors, but already in 2005, we had 6 million and 359 thousand. This people are sicker. Now I have to read to you again tax that we had tumors in 2004 of 42,000 people, in order to have 48 thousand patients in 2005. Minister, aren't those arguments for you? Human lives and human health? Please, who's going to explain this leap of cancer? You don't care about that. You're gonna release something that's most toxic? You're going to do what's best for someone who's not materially well standing by to tax and suspend his excise duty? We can never, unfortunately, agree with that. You are constantly calling for Euro-Atlantic integration, to America, to Europe, and you are all avoiding mockery. In America last month, in December, 52 American aircraft bombers flew for the first time on an oil-powered and liquid gas and some modification. America's moving on and running from that kerosene, and you're doing this kerosene here right now in this way and you want to introduce it and give it as wide as possible. Here's another piece of information for you, and you must know it well. You have one of the richest people in America, Brandson Richards, owner of the Atlantic Virginia Company. He made a big mess and took 15 planes of Boing and ERBA-su canceled love. Why? Because he conditioned that they move on to studying fuel to bioenergys of new origin, which will not harm this environment. It's already been experimented to get a new bioenergy of corn and not to list other biological products. That's what America does. What are you doing? You are all that they leave behind, and all that they flee from, you serve us. That's not right. Come on, get a move on and be a little people. I only appeal to your humanity, if anything of humanity remains. Again this left part and this option democratic, it's interesting to keep quiet, and ecology, it's one of the most important directions to work and which Europe and the world insist on, a country runs away and that's true. And that's America. She doesn't accept those conventions that need to be signed to make us live safer. I appeal to humanity for a little bit of your humanity. These are exact figures, and don't give me your floscules, here's what the explanation was given - for stimulating air transport. It's not stimulation. That, again, is what I'm telling you, you're bringing me to the point that I have to tell you that you seem to be pushing for the direct killing of the citizens of our country and enabling an unhealthy environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3905	Thank you. There's a minister's word, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3906	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must tell you that I do not personally understand these oil derivatives. I see some fractions up to 380 etc. What I got as information from the Service is that we practically did not release the excise kerosene with this proposal, but that he had been released so far, so what someone said was that we were killing people, basically that's how it has been so far. So the answer is that this is the only thing that's been legalized to ensure that this transition period of Petrochemy is supported, and if you're against it, that we should kill Petrochemy and JAT, then you have to say the same thing. I note that so far, the kerosene situation has been such that, from the point of view of figures and budgets, we have no savings or increased costs. Now that we've come up with an opportunity to give the numbers, someone's been looking for both how much we're in plus and how much we're down with this and why I've cut down and increased somewhere, I didn't want to talk in advance about the members that are yet to come, and now they're here, so I can give you an approximate balance. So I've already said that about three billion a year will be obtained on the basis of liquid gas, and two of these bases are going to be lost about 500 million, which is one to six and it can't be compared, that if we do this like this, and so on. As for the issue of coffee and why it was proposed, I would keep it, and if you'll allow me, the possibility of answering that subject again at the end of the exposure. Our initial idea was to really support some of these, as they say, broad crowds and we know that everyone in this country is drinking coffee. We are convinced, even though it was a different discussion, that if you increase the excise duty, the price increases, if you reduce it, it decreases. From the discussion we heard that it was not so and that only if she increased she went up, and if you cut her down, she did not. It is now a question of whether the market is deep or wide, etc. What's for sure is that by reducing prices and excise duties, you don't achieve a deficit by principle of cost times the amount, but in the case of a drop in prices we have and we go to higher consumption. In any case, the idea was to help, and we saw that these few MPs and noted that the poorest layers were driving cars, though, as they were called, on gas. We think these people are also drinking coffee, so we wanted to help them out a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3907	Thank you, Mr. Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, then Mr. Sekulić, then Mrs. Tabakovic, then Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3908	Mr. Minister, don't let go, and I'm sorry, you're JAT. After all, ask how many salaries the directors and other staff have, and the lowest salaries are the ones that contribute the most. Ask what the pilot's salaries are in JAT and other airlines. What about foreigners who also tank kerosene at airports in Serbia? Are we going to release them too? Are we going to release these tycoons that have planes? Second, regarding liquid oil gas, a kilo of liquid oil gas is about 78 dinars, a litre is 41 dinar, a litre is 530 grams. So you've already included everything you've said about how to maintain roads, and everything else, in a liter of fuel, because the liquid oil gas on the butane pumps is poured into a liter, not a kilo. In the end, you will save, you will remove 3 billion dinars of skin from the back of the Serb people, but that is why you will release the tycoons. Two and a half billion will stay clean. As for the price of coffee, you do not release Serbian citizens by removing the excise, but release coffee importers and those who bake coffee.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3909	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3910	Two things can't be true at the same time, that we don't understand, that the release for kerosene existed before and what you gave us in the Bill's amendment and supplementation, and you gave us in Article 11, that points 5 and 6 were added to that article, so here, for the viewers, those points 5 and 6 were given in large letters of'release', and so it says - it releases fuel for jet engines, kerosene, which the manufacturer sells, etc. directly to the end-user for aircraft purposes. So it didn't exist, it's getting loose now. That this is true, and not what you just said, it stands in line with Article 11 where it says – in order to encourage the development of aviation, it is proposed to release the excise duty on jet engines, kerosene, etc. I simply believe what you have written, handed over in 250 copies, and by that we have submitted the amendment, and regarding other derivatives and oil fractions, my colleague Sekulić will explain to you in detail and professional terms, so that we do not bring any further confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3911	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sekuli.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3912	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you really beat me to it. When I realized this amendment an hour ago, I agree with Mr. Valjarevic and the esteemed Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, I realized what was going to be done here. The two largest companies in Serbia and the only one in Serbia, and the former Yugoslavia, were the "Hipol-Odzaci" that produced polypropylene and HIP "Petrochemia" Panchevo, which deals with the production of polyethylene and specifically the purpose of the production of polyethylene for the production of plastics in granates, high and low density polyethylene. You've been through this since you've now found a strategic partner for the Hipol Ojacs and sold out, now you'd be looking for a strategic partner for the HIP of Petrochemy. I didn't realize at all that you wanted to save, to advance, the HIP of Petrochemy, to sell it better here. You said you weren't up for this because you haven't sold any of the businesses that's been dealing with these things yet. When you sell the HIP to Petrochemical, you'll round up your entire cycle of production and sales. What you've just written, that they're exempt from excise duty on imports, do you know that they're direct producers of all that. The HIP of Petrochemy is, as Mr. Jojic said, the largest polluter of Pancevo Municipality. I'd like you to explain to us whether you want to reduce production through this, so that on some ecological part, you can go all over the story that as little HIP 'Petrochemicals' would pollute people or want some importers that are close to you and to your government, who will introduce polyethylene and polypropylene, which will be a special fraction to obtain the granulate. To know the viewers, the production of granules and plastic masses, the largest production of packaging is plastic packaging. It's huge money, incomprehensible to all of us. I worked at Galennica, plastics, for many years, and I know your process, and we bought it from domestic producers, it's HIP Petrochemy and the Hipol Odjacs. You have foreign producers. It's Russian "Soten", Hungarian "Liten", Czech, you have PVC, from Macedonia it was imported. As far as I can tell, it's not about saving Petrochemy, it's about selling petrochemicals to get somebody into all of this quickly, without foreign producers showing up. One more question to ask you now. If that's how you say it now, will it cheapen the granulate? The granulate is usually the mass from which, after processing, spraying or tobacco packaging or extruding, all products from plastic mass of extensive consumption, even to medicine, are obtained. Is that going to reflect on the sales packaging? If I were to make a short commitment to what my predecessors were saying about the juices, if it was done, then all the juices should be cheap, because the price in the packaging, which participates at least 30% in the price of the product, then all the juices should be cheaper. I don't see why you force Slovenian goods, whether Danone or France will appear. France's Dupont is the strongest company that has a protected sale of these very granules. It's literally if you say 'high 10' or 'low 10', high and low density, five-package, it's that transparent packaging that's really coming from these polymers and low density polyethylene. The French are best known for the Dippon company, it's a company that's protected for production and packaging. I'd like you to answer what you wanted with this, and you refused the amendment that your colleague Valjarevic gave. As for kerosene, I am in favour of the fact that the kerosene excise duty is only strictly allowed to be abolished only in the part where it is used with the Aikon product, where kerosene is added, which is not harmful to that concentration for humans. That's when they spray our mosquitoes, so you know it's imported from France, and then the kerosene is added. Only in that segment, since, apparently, every year we're late for mosquito spraying, that the government or the City, and you're in power in the City, obviously you have no money and you have no ear for it. Let's just introduce mosquito spraying, that segment, 2-3 tons, and get it over with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3913	Thank you, Mr. Sekulic, Mr. Kovacevic by the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3914	Honorable President, Vice President, Intelligence, Article 226. When excises are introduced like this, we look a little differently. It's interesting that no one has mentioned here so far that this same gas is used in kebabs, in bakeries, in households, it's the same gas. At the small door he collects a large range of products and services that someone will do. It's the same gas, the propan-butane, you've seen them go to the pumps, pour fuel, and pour into the bottles they use in the household. I've submitted the amendment, and I'm a member of that savings and analysis committee, and I'm interested in what kind of college you're in. We'll have to see then, since it's a saving of environmental energy, we're preventing electricity consumption and another kind of energy. Then this is how we're gonna collect everything together. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to the total collection and the overall effect of the collection by introducing excise duties on this gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3915	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Mr. Arsic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask my colleagues from the ruling majority to draw attention to the minister what he's saying. First, have a nice man sit down and think about what he said half an hour ago and what he said five minutes ago. Half an hour ago, a man said that by removing excise juice, the state lost 60 million dinars. Then he went out and said he was losing the total by removing the excise duty on juices and kerosene for 500 million. After that, he comes out for the pay phone again and he says, Mr. Minister, you said two releases, we only talked about two... (Mirko Cvetkovic, from the place: and coffee) You mentioned juices and mentioned kerosene. All three of them now? And now it's going to be the fourth. First of all, I'd like to draw your attention. So, the truth is, the state was getting funds from selling fuel to planes. Mr. Minister, you should be ashamed of the irony you use here, you say – what you worry about for citizens who use liquid oil gas to drive motor vehicles, and drink cheaper coffee. You know what? Here, it doesn't take much smart and informed to be. The price of live cattle has dropped over 60%. Did he cheap a single product and how much? It's not. Are you convinced that coffee producers, i.e. "Colinska" and "Grand", otherwise the owner of the "Granda" is the godfather with the minister in that same government, that they will reduce the price of coffee on the market for citizens, or, in practice, so far, that difference, which states deny, will be put in their pocket? That's the problem, Mr. Minister. The only benefits will be for coffee importers, those driving by airplanes, juice importers, and the damages will be for citizens who are the poorest and they should compensate for the loss in the Republic of Serbia's budget. You're saying we're going to get about three billion more funds. Now I ask the question - why are you burdening the citizens so much? I guess after six years of that transition of yours, you say, you should cut your taxes to the citizens. What you're reducing, you're reducing in an extremely corrupt way. We'll see about that in one of the following laws. You say and boast that you are reducing the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to apartments. Why don't you say who benefits from that tax? Local self-government. It's easy to be a great gentleman when he pays another. Take it and pay for it from your budget. That's what Dinkic was doing. The man abolishes taxes where local self-government revenues are entrusted or the original revenues of local self-government under the Law on the financing of local self-government. Over here, how much did you increase the state's apparatus? How many agencies do we have? I've calculated five billion dinars for the People's Office you should spend on the budget. Is that what they need to pay for, this poor girl who uses liquid gas cars?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3917	It's a business thing. Here you go, Dr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 104 to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Of course, it is the primary member who binds us MPs. But, Mr. Minister, please, these verbal exhibitions are really unauthorized. You went out and said that we're talking, defending something that's not true now. Please take what you defend here and read nicely. She read to you Mrs. Jorgenka, but you didn't answer. You have to answer. Why? You said we wanted to kill the oil complex. No, we don't want it absolutely, but we just want to tell you that we stand up for our citizens and that we think better solutions are possible in the context of what you're proposing. When we say that you, exactly, are written here, I am now reading for the citizens to see what you're doing. In Article 19(1), at the end of point 4) is replaced by a point and a comma, after point 4) points 5) and 6) are added, and then goes as they say – jet engine fuel, they are added. It means something new. You say now, "We are making it up." Do you have the fatigue? Absolutely. Then we read your explanation. Let's look again at points 5) and 6) that have been pulled out here and it's about to say who's getting rid of the excise, there's this kerosene that's being released. If that's new, it wasn't before, and if it was before, you're introducing it as a newspaper. If that's true, this is schizophrenia. You say – in addition, and in order to encourage developmental aviation, it is proposed to release from, so when you say, in an explanation, that you are proposing a release, you cannot release something that is already free. It's schizophrenia or fatigue. Identify yourself what's at stake. I know you've been set up, I know some associate planted it on you, but it can't even set up a Serbian Parliament, it can't be common sense. Don't insult us and humiliate us. Maybe it's tiredness. If that's the case, I don't mind, so let's discuss it properly, we can't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3919	That's a good doctor's proposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment also refers to liquid oil gas and a lot has already been said about this problem, or the SRS proposal to lift this excise on liquid oil gas, but I think the main problem with liquid oil gas is that the government probably writing this bill came from the wrong projection. It came from the price of gas, which at that point I suppose was 30,00 dinars, and based on that, it made this excise policy, which means about 6.00 dinars, a jump in gas prices by the end of the year and 10,00 dinars early next year. I think that if we compare the current price of gas that has jumped 30% in the last week, some 40,00 dinars have gone and we're designing the proposed excise policy, we're coming into a situation where the gas cost-effectiveness and the introduction of gas equipment is questionable. If it comes from a price of 40,00 dinars, add these 6.00 dinars, so go to it, there won't be much difference, because politics will remain the same, inflation less than at the end of the year, there won't be a big price difference, about 5.00 to 6.00 dinars early next year, politics will remain the same, energy prices will be the same, inflation is small. We can only project one transition period. If we add a retail margin to those 6.00 dinars, add VAT, we'll get to the price that's 50 and a couple of dinars, absolutely certainly at the pumps. And we have a problem that 10% certainly is more consumption when it comes to fuel consumption. All in all, we're going to get to the price of 55, 56, so it's close to 60,00 dinars per litre, which is unacceptable for the citizens, because it leaves very little room for them to be in a position to get paid to get to the gas. It takes the Ministry and you personally to think about excise policy, because it's obvious that the gas market is very unstable, that there's a lot of monopolies and that we can come into a situation with this suggestion of excise duty that only the market is significantly destroyed. The policy itself is quite excise policy, quite inflexible. I would remind you that when it comes to oil derivatives, you have 20% of what the government can react to if there is any macroeconomic instability. In this proposal, you did not leave that possibility to react to the gas as well. I think it's very bad, and I wouldn't repeat the arguments relating to environmentalism and the fact that a good part of the citizens, the poorest, use gas. But the good part, I would remind you, and small businessmen, those who today are very difficult to deal with are that they are fighting for survival, depending on the gas, and I think in this way you have put some five, six thousand existences in some of my calculations, families that depend directly on this sector. In my Jagodina, I know there are seven, eight gas stations, a couple of service stations, 40, 50 people, a family, depending entirely on this area. At Serbia's level, as I said, it's probably five or six thousand families. With such a policy, as well as a policy of excise duty on import juices, we are in a position to just lose jobs in a situation where we already have close to a million unemployed, when this large number of unemployed essentially prevents any serious restructuring and adjustment of the Serbian economy. I think this proposal is inadmissible and that you should think more seriously and possibly accept my colleague's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-26-0.u3921	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Have Mr. Cvetanovic ready for tomorrow.
