ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume you had at least a partial chance to get acquainted with yesterday's events in the Belgrade City Assembly. I can tell you that since 1990, I have neither been present nor heard that in any establishment, a case like that happened yesterday in the Belgrade City Assembly. It's safe to say that the terror of the majority has taken place. It's normal that most people can do whatever they think is useful to her. (President: I apologize, Mr Todorovic, you will have the opportunity to discuss, just tell me by which member of the Rules of Procedure you are talking about the City Assembly? ) Article 226. Mr. Albianic, I believed in your abilities, that you have already managed to master the Rules of Procedure and become acquainted with some members. One of them is also a member of 226. Read it and you'll see. (President: This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I warn you, this is the most legislative body in the country, not the City Assembly. It would be my pleasure, Mr. Albianic, if I could help you. I'd like your time back. In fact, yesterday in Belgrade's Assembly of the Belgrade DS, DSS and G17, they agreed that since Belgrade City Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic has passed away in every way to try to keep the mayor's office. I understand, that's legitimate. However, it is not legitimate to violate the procedure, it is not legitimate to break the law, it is not legitimate to prevent other committees from entering the Belgrade Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the same way. Although we warned them that this was our legitimate right, the current acting mayor, the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, Mr. Alimpic, came out for a pay phone and said that they correctly agreed within the ruling city-level coalition to carry out the rotation, so that he, as a member of the DS, would serve as mayor. There's nothing to argue about. It is a dispute that you have not allowed us to propose our candidates, which you are pre-falsifying Serbian citizens. You, in a coalition at the republican level, from the DS say elections will be up until New Year's Eve. That's where you mention presidential elections, mention local elections. Your DSS coalition partner says elections by the end of the year can't be in any way, because we have much more important things about the state, which is Kosovo and Metohija, and there won't be a choice. How, then, is it possible that in the City Assembly, because of a claim that, by the way, doesn't have to mean anything, because when it comes to you, absolutely nothing is certain, you are rotating as president of the Assembly, in order for a member of the DS to serve as mayor of the city of Belgrade? At least in one case you deceive the public, or when it comes to the City Assembly, when you claim and agree with the DSS that the election will be by New Year's, or you who know that they will not accept these elections for the president of Serbia and the local elections. It's something that goes beyond all possible limits. (President: Time.) ) Also, yesterday in the City Assembly, you elected an acting deputy mayor. It's just inconceivable. That kind of nonsense hasn't happened since 1990, absolutely nowhere. In no institution is a man appointed or elected to a function that does not exist. Although we asked them to show us where in the Rules of Procedure, in the law, there is a deputy official of the mayor's office in the Statute of Belgrade, they failed to do so. That's your problem and that's what the citizens of Serbia need to know. You are only interested in power for one single reason: to conquer power to reach prey. For you, the spoils are public enterprises, ministerial posts, boards of directors, and everything you can come up with. You're not interested in anything else. What fate of the earth, what coppers. You're only interested in the distribution of prey. You showed it in the roughest way possible yesterday in the City Hall. I warn you, from this pay phone, that this SRS will not cross. This, which you have taken away from us the right to run for office yesterday, according to normal procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure, candidates for the President of the City Assembly, you will have the opportunity to learn in the coming days what measures we will take. I won't tell you in advance, make sure we don't get past this. I think you should imagine this fact that thanks to the majority you have, you make it impossible for the Council of the City of Belgrade to have the same rights as you do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7374	The word has been issued by MP Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the DSS-NS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7375	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting by article 104 and 225. Rules of Procedure, due to yesterday's session. I ask the chairman to explain to me why the session was interrupted, because we have damaged both the public and the citizens of Serbia, as well as the good part of the MPs who spoke for the word. This is how it turns out that some of us who have responded to the Rules of Procedure have been discriminated against. I would like to know, that the chairman would explain to me, what are the criteria, and to whom he gives his word regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure when the MP asks, who he likes, who he sees first, or who he draws closer to. I picked up the first call today, Mr. Albianic. Furthermore, from the transcript, or minutes of yesterday's session, I see that you presented Mr. Milos Aligrudic as president of the DSS parliamentary group. I am telling you, and I had to tell the President of the Assembly, and to all citizens and the public that Mr Aligrudic is the president of the DSS-NS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I'm surprised, Mr. Albianic, that you've forgotten that, especially since you're our equals there. We know you're on temporary duty in G17. We know what you're feeling. You have injured 85,000 members of New Serbia and for this reason, while you are chairing, at 10.00 hours, each session will begin with the words of one of the MPs from the DSS-NS parliamentary club, and otherwise members of New Serbia, with a short lecture from two to three minutes who is New Serbia. Until yesterday, I thought it was an accident, perhaps a little longer name, as it appears in the media that the three parties are making a government, it is an original forgery and everyone can look at the January 21st election list, everyone knows that the government is made by these parties, the Democratic Party, G17 Plus and the DSS-NS coalition, Vojislav Kostunica. Our list fought for Dr Vojislav Kostunica to be Prime Minister, we achieved that, and that was our main goal. So much more, Mr. Albianic, you shouldn't forget that. Next thing I know, I'm hoping you'll explain why the session was interrupted. Since we from New Serbia have had many interesting things to say about Mr Cank, both Novi Sad and everything that has happened, citizens and the public of Serbia have been denied your will, I don't know why, for the opinion of members of the DSS-NS Parliament Club, MPs from New Serbia. When I got out, and I see I have a little more time, I would remind all the ladies in the National Assembly and all the MPs what is happening at this point in a forest municipality called Knic. There is Parliament Speaker Mrs. Snezana Bankovic. They, so-called. Democrats, they're replacing her right now. And do you know what the reason is? Because, thank God, she's blessed. That's the reason. She went to sickbay to bring a boy or a girl to this country, and so many children are missing. They found her now, at this point, to replace her. I hope that the relevant Assembly Committee has come to terms with this, and we MPs here will insist on it, because there are various topics and various speakers here and that will be one of the most important topics in the next sessions. So much more so that New Serbia President Velimir Ilic and New Serbia suffer a major media violence and we will strongly oppose this media violence from this pay phone in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7376	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. First of all, I'm really sorry if there's been a accidental failure on the record. I always pronounce the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Nova Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I always say the full name of every parliamentary group and the function that the MP carries. That's what I'm really trying to do right. As for the interruption of the session yesterday, as you were present at the meeting of the heads of the parliamentary groups, we agreed and made a certain correct agreement, to report to the heads of parliament and to end the debate with each other. However, it did not end that way, the story was repeated, and many MPs raised their hands to appear in the Rules of Procedure. That would mean obstructing what's on the agenda. On this occasion, I apologize to all the MPs who were unable to express their position in the Rules of Procedure yesterday. However, I believe that we should maintain the dignity and reputation of this institution and work in the agenda properly and properly. I think you'll agree to that, too. I really hope you'll accept my apology, which the MPs did not show their position in full yesterday. That would mean we've been working on something that's not on the agenda all day. I think it's perfectly logical and normal for us to continue working properly today, on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of defending you, Mr. Markicevic, from Mr. Albianic, but I am monitoring that he writes it neatly when anyone answers, so that this rule, which is closer to him, which he prefers no longer. I'm closer to him and he likes me better, so he gave you his word before I did. As far as Mr. Albianic is concerned, he's done it correctly so far. As for what I've answered, I'm going to ask you for some attention, because the joke on the side, the thing is very serious. So, I reported as I see Mr Palalic, the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, as to what Mr. Todorovic was talking about, I am reporting to the member of the 72nd, who regulates the work of the local self-government body through the assembly committee responsible for controlling local self-government. I've also reported to a member, and I can read you more members of the Constitution, here, Article 191. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, since the highest legal acts, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legal act of the city of Belgrade, the Statute and the law that regulates, the one still in force on local self-government, the position of local self-government authorities, and what is and how it can do there? In fact, we came as a state in this situation that four years ago a law was passed that first directly elected mayors in our country and the president of the municipalities. The tragedy that took place last week, the death of elected President Nenad Bogdanovic, has made you faster and better to make rotten compromises just to maintain power. So, the post of President of the Belgrade City Assembly, the combination and transfer of Mr. Alimpic to that post and putting him as a very representative of the terrible policy for the city of Belgrade, which is personified by the DSS, not only is it at the expense of the citizens of Belgrade, but it shows in what way you are all prepared to deal with manipulations, to violate the Statute and to usurp power to remain in power for several months. It is amazing that yesterday, despite the warnings of Mr. Todorovic and all the council members in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and the SRS, you dared to do such a thing, only because you were given the deadline on that day and only because you have to remain in power at all costs. You think it'll take a long time. We haven't yet, I have to remind you, Mr. Palalic, come out for a pay phone and tell us why you haven't acted as the chairman of the competent assembly board, so I'm going back to that indisputable warning, to criticize Mr. Albianic, Mr. Todorovic, as if a man doesn't know what he's saying, so he says to him, you're in the highest legislative body. That is why a man warns you that you are violating the Constitution, that you are violating the law and that you are playing with the will of people who did not want and did not want, the citizens of Belgrade, that something like that happened yesterday, but that if everyone has already entered the election process of the President of the City Assembly, they will give their candidate. If that choice fails, my God, it has failed, there will be a local election soon, we will see by which law, because we do not yet have any answers to those questions from you, and you have said and promised, here is your chance to correct it today at two o'clock, or before we take a break in work, to discuss what happened yesterday, about this scandal in the City Assembly. and to ask you many more questions about functioning, primarily the city of Belgrade and other units of local self-government. It's your job and the work of the assembly board is taking place in that field. If we don't have the laws of the competent minister, or the Ministry of Local Self-Government, if you're going to go, not to say, wandering through the fog, because someone is going to get angry, even though it's the usual term for someone who doesn't know what they're going to do and for someone who just wants to get their hands on something and keep their functions, then it's time for you to explain to us how you dared really do something like this for the first time in 17 years. Mr Todorovic said nicely that there is no normal word in a rich Serbian dictionary that would characterize such a state of consciousness that when it comes to the situation, here is a hypocrisis, there is a doctor who will help me or give me a better expression, that you just get to what's important to you, to rob, to kidnap and steal. Mr Palalic, before I receive or receive an answer, I am ending Mr Albianic, to tell all of you from this tycoon Belgrade republican coalition of DS and DSS, whatever law you come up with, that in Belgrade, in all municipalities in Serbia, in all cities, it will be convincing when elections are called to beat you to the heart of the SRS and every candidate of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7378	Replica, MP Jovan Palalic. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: I answered the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Palalic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, and Srdjan Sajn, according to the Rules of Procedure, and Jovan Palalić, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7379	Ladies and gentlemen, I speak on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is being violated daily, is one of the evidence that the assembly majority is functioning and how this coalition works at Belgrade's level. Otherwise, Serbian citizens have been witnessing for seven years that DOS is turning democracy into tyranny. You, ladies and gentlemen, do not need the Constitution, nor the laws, nor the Rules of Procedure, you operate on the basis of your agreement, and the agreement, of course, is based on the fulfillment of certain wishes and interests, and it all comes down to the distribution of public enterprises, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of the city of Belgrade. You are distracting the citizens of Serbia, for how many months now, I have been talking about a republican level related to the distribution of functions by public enterprises of republican importance, and as you take care and take care of Serbia. Serbia is, unfortunately, the least important to you. Why am I saying this? Because the violation of the Constitution and of the law has become the manner of DOS, and I don't know why you're passing the laws, which is why we passed the Constitution when Serbia is in an unconstitutional state today, and today we don't have a Constitutional Court. To remind some, who also, from time to time, remind that Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court, that this is the second time in DOS history that Serbia does not have a Constitutional Court for a long period, so that you can do everything because you do not have, you think you can, this supreme judicial institution that could possibly undo your decisions and regulations. What did you do in the Belgrade City Assembly? The fact that you transge-fangs have replaced the President of the Assembly with a combination, that is something that is really inappropriate, but it goes to the soul and cheek above all the DSS, which allowed itself to be humiliated, which is of course not the problem of the SRS, but our problem and the problem of the whole of Serbia is that you don't think we should have an election in Serbia, that you can, when it suits you, change mayors, presidents, the government. You're doing it all depending on your deal. You don't care if you're in article 42. The law says you are under obligation to discuss elections for the city of Belgrade. We'll wait for that deadline that's laid out in the law, see what you do. We know that you fear the victory of Alexander Vukic at Belgrade's level and that's why you don't call the election. Then a spokesman for the DSS shows up on a TV show and questions why elections are not discussed when the mayor's death took place because of the death of Nenad Bogdanovic, he says – that's the interpretation of the minister for local self-government, and that's that. Imagine the response of a party spokesman who exercises power, the minister interprets the law and that's it. Then the minister sends, as a love letter to the municipality of Rum, a letter I don't know what other municipality, instead of a solution, to which a complaint can be filed, after which a administrative dispute can be brought, that Minister, Milan Markovic, is not interested, interested in fulfilling what he is ordered to write, the DSS's say - the minister said, and that's that. It's like Nicoletina Bursac, the commander said there's no God. It's just amazing how you, gentlemen, are playing with laws, the Constitution, the citizens of Serbia, underestimating intelligence, not only of the people's MPs, but of the citizens of Serbia. Believe me, the citizens remember that for you, and we will remind them daily of your violations of the law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7380	The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7381	I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226, and I just want to get one interpretation from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and ask one of the ministers in the government to present a part of this presentation that I'm about to present to the government. It's about the following, about the funds that are directed towards public works. Seven projects have arrived from Vojvodina, Serbia's same few public works projects submitted by representatives of the Roma national community. My question is, is it true that two months ago, one of the representatives of the Human and Minority Rights Service, who, in my knowledge, is not a representative of the Human and Minority Rights Service, is working on a project to come to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to present himself as an authorised person, that during the process of defining which projects are to be suggested to certain bodies in the Government that these projects have to be rejected and it has led to the situation that tomorrow (it seems to me to be decided by the Government tomorrow) are not at all these projects, which have been said and several municipalities have decided that these are good projects, and the Office for Inclusion in the Executive Council and the Secretariat for Labour and Gender Equality in the Executive Council of Vojvodina have decided that these are good projects. All these projects simply don't want to be in front of the government just because an individual, who's hired by one UNDP project, who, by the way, and to tell you only from the DS, was in Rambuje and represented the government at the time and, just so much, I think, to be made and to see if we have a certain distance from that, or not. That man came and said there, by the way, that some websites are written for, all of it needs to be checked, that he got money from those who were in customs to build his own house. Is that true? If so, then I expect the government and the parties involved in forming the government to put a very clear distance, to stop the individual from running through all ministries, which has no public authority, which works on only one UNDP project and presents himself as a man who can cheer and dress in the process of Roma integration. Just to remind you, that it is hitched, precisely because of its behaviour, a European Educational Fund project worth several hundred thousand euros and that these several hundred thousand euros can no longer enter Serbia to prepare Roma in pre-school institutions, because of his will, because of his abuse and the abuse of these funds and accounts. Mr Damjanovic asks what his name is, I ask a parliamentary question, to let us know who came from that service, because I have that information, and if it is true, I would like to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7382	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic, right on the line. After him, you will get your word to Mr. Todorovic, but before you go Mr. Milorad Buh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of the presentation of counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, I would like to say that as chairman of the Committee, I have learned that yesterday was the session of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, but on the very course of the Assembly and the possible violations of the procedures I have just learned from the presentation of both Mr Dragan Todorovic and Ms Natasa Jovanovic and, simply, that the Committee may consider such opportunities. The Committee has only the possibility to propose measures to the competent authorities, and it itself does not have the opportunity to take certain measures. We should be familiar with ourselves during the congregation, to get certain materials and records, so that we can give our opinions and answers eventually, to respond to the competent ministry and to our opinions on the very course of the assembly. In that sense, we will ask the representatives of the City Assembly that I am the flow of the Assembly to the competent committee, so that at one session, and yesterday there were other municipalities of the problem, we could consider all these problems that occurred in the Assembly and municipalities throughout Serbia, and in Belgrade, I know that there were both in Ruma and in some other municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7384	The word is from the People's MP Milorad Buha, according to the Business, and from Dragan Todorovic and Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on article 226. The Rules of Procedure and the first thing I would like to talk about is that the Republika Srpska government in persecution has data that in the first six months of this year in the Republic of Croatia 311 attacks on Serbs and their property have been carried out. We have data from last night that a citizen of Serbia, Bojan Djenic of Kleka, a worker of the international expedition, who travelled on the route of Slovenia – Greece, was beaten at Ovčara, i.e. at Vukovar; he was thrown out of the vehicle, beaten and left in such a state. This is a concrete example, and we have data for 311 incidents, which are caused by Serbs. It's mostly about the attacks on the elderly, who dared to return to their hearths. I ask you, what has the government done to make these unfavorable events of Serbs in Croatia public. The media's quiet about it. The foreign ministry, instead of protesting immediately, to indicate to Croatia that it cannot be done, does nothing. The interior ministry, which has that data, also does nothing. What about NGOs that should, by the same principle, do it here, get to know the international public. And I'm asking the international public, why is he keeping quiet about this? Serbs in Croatia and Republika Srpska are victims of genocide, ethnic cleansing - expelled, left without property and nothing. You're breaking both here and there. Let us help this people – we call on this assembly, the government, and especially NGOs, which are very zealous when incidents are caused in Serbia, international organisations and international public opinion are immediately informed, and this is what we are silent about. For these 311 incidents in the first six months of this year no one knows, only possibly some newspapers publish certain data, but in two or three sentences. It's good to help these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7386	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 219, which regulates the relationship between the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court and what we have been warning you all along, that our country is de facto in an unconstitutional state, and since the DOS came to power for almost four years, we have no Constitutional Court. If there were an institution, we could, in a way, believe that certain problems could be solved, such as this problem is related to yesterday's session of the Belgrade City Assembly, because the SRS would surely appeal to the Constitutional Court because in the most severe way possible the Rules of Procedure of the Belgrade City Assembly was violated. Due to the agreement that you have made with your coalition partners, you have banned other committees from proposing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, other candidates or other candidates for the president of the Belgrade City Assembly. If there was a Constitutional Court this question would be considered and the National Assembly would be informed. I am sure, and if you would return that Slobodan Vučetic again, that he too could not go through this kind of violation of the Constitution and the law, that you would have to repeat this and that you would have to allow other committees to propose their candidates, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The question is, what is it, what is it that makes you so drastically violate the Rules of Procedure? Well, very simple. You're afraid of choices, you don't have any more candidates to go to the election with. You're smaller than a masculine grain, you're stuck in a mouse hole. [[Applause]] What about the line now?- I'm sorry. Where's your line now?- I'm sorry. What happened to the line?- I'm sorry. Don't worry, we have a candidate. But where are yours?- I'm sorry. And show it, not here from the bench. Call the election in accordance with the law. But now you're not allowed on the line! What now?- I'm sorry. I have experience, I expect you, aware of the fact that you have nothing to look for in the elections anywhere, so in other congregations, you're physically trying to deal with most of it that's legal, because it doesn't suit you. I expect you may also be instituting a state of emergency, because you have nothing to look for in the election. If you did, you'd be out. The law is very clear, from the day the president of the municipality was suspended from office within 15 days, the president of the assembly is required to call the elections. This is how you make it clear to the citizens of Serbia that there is nothing of it, that you have agreed. You're breaking the law by believing that every day in the places where you are today allows you to fold as much as you can and to bury everything you've done so far. I can promise you, when the SRS comes to power, not for political reasons, not because of the political persecution of political indivisibles, but only because of the violation of the law, a large number will come under the influence of the law and you will have to answer for the destruction of Serbia since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7388	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to members 225 and 226. I miss the president of the assembly. I refer the question and ask him for a notice, but Mr. Albianic, given that you are the chairman, I ask you to pass this on to him, or I ask for the following notice: will the President of the National Assembly, who, by law, is required to call the mayor's election in Belgrade? I remind you, the law obliges the president of the National Assembly to call the elections within 15 days, unless it is less than six months until the end of the term of office. I also remind you that the mandate expires next September 2008. So, a year is up until the end of the term. Everything else is the illegal thinking of the ruling majority. A huge city is being run based on the minister's opinion. The minister says there will be elections. Some say it will be in December, others are pushing for a stay next year, who knows when. This cannot be a reason not to apply the law, and I warn Serbia that what happened yesterday in Belgrade, and Serbia, in addition to being in an unconstitutional state for a long time, has now brought Belgrade into an illegal state. What's going on? In Belgrade, the mayor's office is someone who has no mayor's legitimacy, and everything else is expected from the mayor's legitimacy. It is imagined, in accordance with the law, that the President of the Assembly is acting as mayor in a technical sense, in order to organise the election as soon as possible and until elections are carried out. We had a scandal yesterday in Belgrade, so it was not possible for everyone to propose a candidate for the president of the assembly, and on the other hand, we have a situation that the assembly elected the president of the assembly and the deputy, while suspending the deputy by choice of V.D. Deputy Mayor. Now imagine V.D. The mayor, who is actually the President of the Assembly, he also proposes that the Assembly confirm V.D. Mayor or V.D. Deputy Secretary of the Assembly. The question is, what happens now to this Secretary of Parliament? It is a scandal, and no wonder, it is clear to all, there is a great fight for Belgrade, because Belgrade has a billion euros. You know how much money that is and how many years out of control. For these reasons, I support this idea that the Committee on Local Self-Government urgently discuss what happened yesterday in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, while at the same time the president of the National Assembly declares here when he will call those elections. Everything else is unconstitutional, illegal and leads to one chaos. Here's an example of a lot of municipalities, here's yesterday in Ruma, and who knows where else, ten municipalities are sticking to the ice, they're going to start beating people to solve the problem of authorities in municipalities instead of elections, and that's what this power actually encourages.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7390	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7391	Ladies and gentlemen, the scandal that took place yesterday in the Belgrade City Assembly seems to be the most recent in terms of the most open violation of the law and the Constitution, which has been going on since 2000, so here we are, to this day. What we heard earlier, unless elections were called in the municipalities, and there was a long legal need for this, if in the municipality the councils' trade changed the majority and the open trade where they knew who was taking the money, how much money, how the committee's documents were forged, how the alleged resignations were forged, they never really saw anything like what's happening now. G17 plus they're forgers in Old Paz, we know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7392	Please, don't say such qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7393	I say what I know, Mr Albianic, we have talked about this and, if we have to, we will talk more than once, but now to return to the Belgrade City Assembly and yesterday's legal scandal, which is certainly unremembered in the history of Serbian society. The proposal for a candidate for the President of the Assembly shall be submitted to the chairperson in writing, as referred to in Article 9. Rules of Procedure of the Belgrade City Assembly. The question for you gentlemen, who has submitted the candidacy for this function, who have you given this to, and whom have you forbidden? How many committee groups were able to run for their candidate? How did you know and assess who could get most, and who couldn't get most? How did you conclude that Nenad Bogdanovica should be inherited by some Zoran Alimpic or whatever his name is, who knows about this man in this city and in this country at all? If the late Nenad Bogdanovic was elected in the direct election of him in that place, no one can succeed until new elections. He can leave his property in inheritance, and the mayor's office can't leave, there's no legal right. No one can use that right to assess who the citizens would vote for in Belgrade right now. Then they voted as they voted, and you know well that they would vote for the SRS today and that's what makes you break the law in such a harsh way, you violate the Constitution, you violate the Rules of Procedure. Just to warn you, it's not just that we're waiting for the Constitutional Court and the constitutional appeal to undo that decision. Gentlemen, these are serious crimes, and for this, you have to go into arrest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7394	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7395	Mr. Albianic, I am speaking to you under the circumstances, although you are not the address for this story today. The President of the Assembly is not here today, and he has his own and that a large part of the responsibility relating to the state of the local self-government. The colleagues in the SRS mentioned some of the examples of poor conditions in local self-government, simply, the silence of the government of the Republic of Serbia and other competent persons, I say 'face' because the president of the National Assembly has certain obligations for the state in local self-government. I can't help but mention something I talked about earlier. It would be good if the Committee on Local Self-Government as the body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia extended its information in local self-government with some more questions. Namely, Mr. Albianic, I ask you to pass on the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Oliver Dulic, the question – what is he waiting for, which does not call election committees for local self-government units in which an emergency has been introduced? In fact, Serbia is not only in a state of emergency because there is no Constitutional Court, but Serbia is in a state of emergency, fellow MPs, because in 10 municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, at least for as long as I know, which is about 900,000 inhabitants, or in some of these municipalities for almost a year a group of people, I cannot call them otherwise, which are made by temporary authorities, terrorising local self-government and only party interests are realised at the level of local self-government. These temporary authorities, Mr Albianic, are formed contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that temporary councils must be suited to the party and national structure of the municipalities. Serbia needs to know that there is an emergency in the 10 municipalities. The government ignores that fact, hears that it violates the Constitution itself. The constitutional court will not conclude this, and Mr. Dulic, with his silence and failure to take appropriate measures, is an accomplice to this essential criminal action. What happened yesterday in the Belgrade City Assembly, the appointment of a deputy deputy, to replace, is indeed a disgrace and is talking about the abuse of the Law on Local Self-Government to satisfy some of the party interests. It is not only in Belgrade, so in Uzic, Valjevo, in Veli Gradište, in Smederevo, in Smederjevska Palanca, in Leskovac, so is another number of municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, where the ruling coalition shares local self-government in party interest. I think it is a shame that such a situation exists in Serbia and that it is the right way to get in the way – elections and, of course, respect for the Constitution. We can't expect anyone who violates the Constitution to respect the Constitution. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately other people in the ruling coalition absolutely do not respect the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Albianic, since you are replacing the president as chairman, I ask you to transfer this information to him so that simply this state of emergency at the level of local self-government will curb and give the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to choose their own representatives. Thank you. (Dragan Todorovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7396	I didn't understand you, Mr. Todorovic, on what grounds is the replica? Mr. Obradovic, I will convey, as well as the questions of all other MPs, to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7397	By Article 101, because I feel that Zarko Obradovic misunderstood us. I fully agree that the President of the Assembly violates the law and does not call elections in municipalities where he had to do so and thus enables the Government to form a group of people who exercise their will and authority in certain municipalities. We here primarily protest the situation in certain municipalities where the Constitution and the law are severely violated, where no extraordinary measures have been formally imposed. There is a congregation, there is a legal majority, but those who have received money to carry out someone's will, to the greatest extent possible to decompose agricultural land, so that that group that comes to the head of those municipalities can re-use that land into building land, thus allowing millions of profits to be made to individuals, as is the case in Old Paz, which in the most drastic way speaks of the character of your government. It's just amazing what you're all prepared to take over. You still haven't given up the October 5th method. You're still in crisis headquarters. It can't be legal, but it can break. With weapons, you seem to have enough left over from the police station in Mother Jevrosima and other police stations, which you picked up on October 5th and as soon as there's no possibility of legally winning power, you seem to want to resort to violence again, crisis headquarters. Among other things, I remember then Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, one of the DOS leaders in 2000, who said – what does this have to do with it, are completely legal authorities, and Edward Cardellj has established the possibility of some things being done in such a way as the violent takeover of municipalities, businesses. You even broke into people's houses, ripped their cables out of their walls, took their windows off, took their doors off. But how long? How long do you think you're doing this? Gentlemen, you claim to be Democrats. Among other things, on behalf of your parties that is the first word – the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia. Do you know that in power comes elections, not weapons, not poles, not because someone took money to allow someone else to earn enormous sums? It's election, gentlemen. To the eagles! Respect the law. What you're about to lose is perfectly normal. Well, look what you've done with Serbia. You've destroyed Serbia completely. How long do you think you can stay? First election and you won't be on the political scene. Some of the DS will remain, but from this other democratic question is what will remain, provided they do not have to whisper again to Velimir Ilic on their backs. I think he's a smart man and he won't let him go to the polls alone, so let Kostunica handle it himself and get out on his own. But you'll have to answer for everything you've done in the past seven years.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7398	Mr. Todorovic, I only ask you not to put Mr. Labus in the context of your political speech. There is a word from the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure because it's our obligation to be in accordance with Article 1. As MPs, the Rules of Procedure protect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws passed by the most legislative body. I must warn you that he is a member of 192 and 193. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia yesterday at the Belgrade City Assembly was seriously injured. Such a violation of the Constitution does not concern you and I can see that you are not particularly interested in finding out if your people across the street have not told you. I don't see this lady who wanted to pick up her business after a while yesterday. This failed candidate for the president of the Serbian Parliament, who participated yesterday in these machinations, in a kind of criminal act, to come here today, because yesterday she wanted to, but Mr. Albianic is sticking to the order and the Rules of Procedure and, of course, did not give her a word over the line, to talk about yesterday's events in the Assembly – well, nicely, the lady to come and say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7400	Miss Jovanovic, I really ask you not to praise me anymore. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7401	Yes, not to compliment you, Mr. Albianic, but he can only jump your ratings, because your party's gone anyway. You, if you want to remain an honest man and an individual and be remembered by the citizens of Serbia, just keep working and everything will be fine. As regards Article 192. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – you know very well that the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, as well as any act of the unit of local self-government, is a general act of local self-government, and in this case it would be today, but it is a matter of where this man is and what he knows about it – yesterday he was only giving orders to his people here how they should behave with another political party. It should respond to Vojislav Kostunica, because he is the one who advocates respect for the Constitution and the law. Where's your legalist? Where's the Prime Minister? Let him answer and say whether the General Act, Rules of Procedure on the work of the Belgrade City Assembly, has been violated and is it in accordance with the law? You claim that it is, we say - no, 81 MPs, I see that the same claim was made by fellow SPS colleagues who were there yesterday and saw what it was about. We advertise the gravest violation of the Constitution of this country. Within five days of Article 192. The constitution, fellow MPs, Mr. Aligrudic, which you have advocated, would have gone to a pre-referendum constitutional campaign. What you're saying and what you're doing, you know, you're an insecure man yourself when it comes to this sort of thing. You draw what you're interested in. Anyway, you're not here today, David, your friend from Strasbourg, so you're forced to talk to Mr. Todorovic. Look, Mr. Aligrudic, call nicely... (President: Miss Jovanovic, I warn you, you cannot express yourself like that. )......................................................................................................... you Vojislav Kostunica and tell him that he is a member of 192. The constitution has been broken and has run out of time since yesterday to determine whether a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Belgrade City Assembly has been violated. Because here is Mr. Vojislav Mihajlovic, who will tell you nicely when he can replace the President of the City Assembly when he can't. He knows it best. In 1999, he was elected instead of Zoran Djindjic, as the SPS then formed a coalition with the SPS, as president of the Belgrade City Assembly, but under the previous law. He was right, as it was said, the mayor. It was not in the right sense of words, because there was no such function, but rather the president of the Belgrade City Assembly. This unfortunate Alimpic can't be. He falsely presents himself, and, behold, he will tell you, former police general Jojic, that he would have to go, already today, to prison, to get the police there, then call Jocic, to enter the City Assembly, to legitize him. If he says that he is called and named, as a citizen, as a councilman, as a member of the DS, it is in the works, but to say to himself that he is someone who performs the office of mayor, it is a false representation and he is subject to the criminal law of this country and would have to be immediately with the handcuffs put into police because he entered the highest institution of the city of Belgrade. As of today, gentlemen, you have entrusted this man who falsely presents himself to this certain Alimpić with signing all the warrants this morning. He has the power, because he is authorised by law, or not authorised because he falsely presents himself, that he has all the means of the city of Belgrade, nor will the citizens be able to accept salaries, or employees in the authorities of the local self-government of the city of Belgrade, in public enterprises, any belongings, without the signature of someone who has been authorized and has not been authorised by Alimpic. Therefore, I warn him, and now from the assembly pay phone, that the attempt, falsely presenting himself, will make Belgrade mayoral functions even more difficult to commit. Even if the service provided him with something to sign, approved some funds, he would indeed have to go to prison, one way or another, all of you who participated in all of this and who thus violated both the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Local Elections and the Rules of Procedure of the City of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7402	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7403	Mr. Albianic, I do not want to praise you, but I will warn you that you have violated Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when you just told Mr. Dragan Todorovic not to mention Mr. Labus. I don't know what makes you think you can make Labus a sacred cow, do you think we can't mention him? (President: Mrs Radeta, please take care of the terms you use) Mr Albianic, please, I speak absolutely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and do not warn me. You have no reason and no business right to warn me in this case. It's possible that Mr. Labus shouldn't be mentioned for the purpose of the investigation, perhaps because of the Book, because of Ericson and all that stuff. If that's the case, we won't do it anymore. If that's not the case, I don't see why this gentleman wouldn't be mentioned in this House. Since we've already started the topic of that scandal that took place yesterday in the Belgrade City Assembly, I want to point out once again, in addition to this issue, that rotten compromise that happened between DSS and DSS, which is absolutely embarrassing to the DSS, because they've allowed such a rock to be made, which I said earlier, is not our problem, what I want to say still refers to setting up a V.D. The mayor, which is amazing, or since you called the deputy mayor earlier, you will now have to call her - acting mayor. (President: Mrs Radeta, I warn you again, take care of the expressions for the assembly speaker. Mr. Albian, I'm trying to fit in with your new speech and nothing else. I don't know why it bothers you. It's popular in the part of this Parliament. The truth, like the entire SRS, is I'm trying to preserve the Serbian language, to preserve the Cyrillic letter, and that is our commitment, but I'm trying to be understood by those who use those expressions. I remind you, too, that you have appointed an assistant mayor in good time, which was also not foreseen in any act. But you are not interested in the Rules of Procedure, nor in the Law, nor in the Constitution, you are not allowed to go to the elections because you are afraid of the victory of the SRS, and therefore you are unmistakably thrown out of violation of the Constitution and of the law, from trampling into the treading of the Constitution and the law. Once again, as a lawyer, I warn you – someone will end up in prison for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7404	National MP Jadranko Vukovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as my colleagues from the SRS, I will ask the precise and concrete question of the Minister for Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Milan Markovic, to answer me in which order the mayor's choice is being made. I'm looking for a precise answer, for the simple reason, because this isn't about the agreed economy, to make a deal. Apparently, the ruling coalition is using a situation where we don't have constitutional law, so there's no one to react. I have consulted with experts in this area who are telling me that Milan Markovic should be the first to stop this, to disable it, and then to react to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court doesn't exist, you used this, you agreed, you don't have the right to do that. It is not in the regulation that regulates the choice of mayors that will be said to agree, but says – until the election, the president of the assembly is in office. And how is the choice being made? That was well explained by Mr. Todorovic, so everyone must have a chance to point out their candidate. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the question and it is my conclusion that Kostunica's legalism has come to terms here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7406	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, according to the Business, then Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is Rule 226. I would like to remind the chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, that a public promise has been made at the last session of the Committee that within 10 days, a session of the Committee will be convened. Unfortunately, that time period has long passed. I think that distinguished colleague Natasa Jovanovic asked for a new session of the Committee to be scheduled today. At the last session of the Committee on Local Self-Government, the president tried to form five working groups and deal with the set of laws on local self-government, what the government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to do. I'll remind you of article 72. A Rules of Procedure where exactly what committees should do in our National Assembly are defined. All that's going on in the Belgrade City Assembly, all that's been going on in Ruma, everything that's been going on in many municipalities where there's been a temporary authority, in an illegal and illegal way, for a month now, I think it's high time that the president of the DSS has already called a session today, so we can solve all of these dilemmas that are clearly plagued by majority Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7408	National MP Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7409	Mr. Chairman, I ask you, most beautifully, if you can treat everyone in the same way, to act balancedly and to apply the rules of the work of this assembly in the same way as you did yesterday, to do so today, because I think that we MPs here are equal before the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly, and if certain measures were applied yesterday, they could be applied today. As yesterday, MPs are using their right to report to the Rules of Procedure to express a certain political stance. It has apparently entered the custom of this National Assembly. Neither my MP group nor I, we didn't run away from it yesterday, and here it is today. I don't mind, and I don't go into the content of what's being said, it's going to be particularly condemned and evaluated, but I'm simply asking you to do what it takes to make your criteria in relation to the conduct of the sessions equal to what they were yesterday to be today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7410	National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7411	I refer to Article 219 – The Relations of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court. I invite you to stick to the Constitution as a holy letter. Don't work the opposite way. We just want to prevent the law that was introduced yesterday in the Belgrade City Assembly. It's absolutely unacceptable, and because of you, because in such a way you give someone the right to act in the same way in which you will be damaged. That's why there are written documents, laws and the Constitution, to limit force, because force itself is sufficient. That's why the laws are written, that one who's weaker can have the same rights as the one who's stronger, and that's the thing you can't go through. That's how you protect yourself, not us. We are already a minority, and we would not be able to achieve our intentions and our desires. You have that majority, but if it's most of them, use it in a legitimate way. I call you to the Constitution, to Article 192, I call on the government of Serbia, because it is said here that the government is obliged to suspend the execution of a general act of the municipality that it considers to be not in agreement with the Constitution or the law and to initiate proceedings within five days to assess its constitutionality or legality. Since we do not have a Constitutional Court, I call on the government to assess whether the law was broken yesterday in the Belgrade City Assembly. Whether it is prohibited and disabled for the SRS, SPS and other representatives to submit their candidates to the Speaker of the Assembly legitimately and legally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If the government does not do this within five days, it will be responsible and it will be evidence that Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic are behind this, and that they are the inspirers of both the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7412	I apologize to Parliamentarian Milos Aligrudić for not answering immediately. In the hope that we will all understand the appeal to end the debate in the Rules of Procedure and continue in the agenda, I will have more patience, because we have another announcement in the Rules of Procedure. So, MP Zdravko Topalovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, hopes that we will continue in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7413	Mr Albianic, Article 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I'd like to say something about Mr. Zoran Alimpic. Therefore, the public in Serbia should know that Mr. Alimpic was the president of the municipality of Chukarica, I come from that municipality and I am a municipal councilman. He was elected in 1996 and 2000; from 1996 to 2004, agony continued, I can say, in the municipality of Chukarica, and I will give you a very specific example, because, in my opinion, he is always the most responsible president of the municipality. In 2000, SO Chukarica had 53 council members and they were all members of the DOS, a broad coalition. At the time, Mr. Vlad Manojlovic, Director of the Business Area SO Kukarica, was Mr. Vlad Manojlovic, I can say freely, the right hand of Nebojja Covic. The chairman of the Business Space Management Board was a representative of the DSS, and the president of the municipality of Democrats Zoran Alimpic, which we are talking about today. According to the auditor's house, there was a deficit of 39 million dinars in the Kukarica Business Area. So 39 million dinars. Gentlemen, you all know it's a crime to cover up the accuracy and credibility of financial data on the balance sheet and the balance of success. As a result, no one responded, and Mrs. Korać, who is the lawyer at SO Chukarica, said that everything was transparent and expressed on the municipal site and gave a very ignorant answer that there is no argument for the investigation, there is no need. On this occasion, I would ask Mr. Jocic, Minister of the Interior: does the MUP know about this case in SO Chukarica, why is no investigation launched and who prevented the investigation from calling for criminal responsibility? So I'll tell you again, the extremely large deficit is shown in the official documentation of the Kukarica Business Area. That's why no one's answered until now, and the president of the municipality was Zoran Alimpic at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7414	On the agenda there is a National MP, Radica Jocic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on Friday we discussed and today we continue the debate on the proposals for legislation on the validation of conventions relating to the environment, sustainable development, the preservation of wild flora and fauna and particularly migratory species of animals. As one of the reasons why the National Assembly should ratify this Convention, according to an emergency procedure, it states that Serbia as a party would receive full support from the Sixth Ministerial Conference "The Living Environment for Europe", the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, which is held in Belgrade from 10 October to 12 October this year. This would contribute to the overall efforts to protect biodiversity in Serbia. I have deliberately repeated all of this because it is very nicely drawn up and it sounds quite logical to think in the direction of the protection of biodiversity in our country, but, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, how many of these conventions and such and similar conferences can produce results, if we were forced this summer to watch almost shrunk hands burn up and thus destroy themselves with fires for a long time the habitats of many endemic and protected species of plants and animals, until the'silver' arrived and prevented further disaster. What kind of state protects its forests at conventions, while its ministers say that on the Old Mountain there is a strange direction of fire in the fire – that the fire was moving exactly in the direction of providing the future route of Dinkic's cableways? What state can afford not to have one plane to put out fires and no strategy for such emergency situations? How many of these conventions, I ask you, Mr. Minister, will prevent the construction mafia from burning down the centuries-old forests on our mountains, drastically reducing the cost of land and allowing the construction of cableways and hotels for domestic and white world powers? You know, respected colleagues, it takes a dozen years to restore the biocenosis of a green ecosystem, and imagine how many hundreds of years it takes to restore the century-old forest on the Old Mountain. The fire was also in the territory of Bela Palanca, where I came from, not far from the Siscevac ravine, where the habitat of endemic and relict species of "Ramond Servica", which belongs to strictly protected species, where our country is known in the world, because it lives only here and several localities in Bulgaria. Just imagine that someone had thought to build a wire on Tara, not far from Pancic's island habitat, which celebrated Serbia among the botanists of the world. I simply cannot, as a biologist and an MP of the SRS, without mentioning, in the context of this discussion, white-headed soups, beautiful predators, whose colony in the Uvac area is cared for by the entire society of ornithologists and natural lovers, and then, near the area where the colony of these birds lives, fairies and cottages of newly-compromised rich people, especially in the last two years. It is very interesting, when one ministry of this country decided to tear down these illegally built objects, because the area was protected, Minister Velimir Ilic, whose friends, by the way, are from Cačka, appeared and challenged all the decisions on the collapse. Is that the minister insists that you can build wherever, whoever and what anyone wants? Do the ministers in this government see Serbia as their private courtyard, where they can build buildings, lifts, hotels, hospitals, to which they will provide several generations of their descendants, at least so far as these eco-systems are not restored? This country has a number of laws that regulate issues which are subject to these conventions, which have already been mentioned several times in the debate. Your job, Mr. Minister, and the work of your ministry, of course, and all your fellow government and government parliamentarians, is to carry them out and respect them consistently, as you did this summer, unfortunately, only in a few cases of water flow pollution. The fires were and were gone, they remained a wasteland, and we didn't see a report on how bad it was, and we didn't hear who was responsible for what the state was at some point absolutely unprepared. The Ministers act as tolls who are surprised by the snow before New Year's Eve; they are surprised by the floods in spring, in August droughts, because they have a lot of work to do. Here, only after months of fighting have they been able to share public enterprises and places on their boards. They cannot resist the division of prey and turn away questions of vital importance for this nation. Mr. Minister, you, as a young man, should not fall into the trap of power, but should, as far as you can, preserve the environment of your mandate, if it is necessary to work on legislation, to tighten the criminal provisions, because we have borrowed this piece of planet, which is called Serbia, from our descendants and should not act as if it were our property. Those who previously ratified all these conventions did not mind participating in the aggression against our country, where, several times already mentioned, ammunition was used with impoverished uranium and cluster bombs, and now they tell us that for a decade until all of this has been removed, and the effects on plants, animals and humans are long-term. They, dear colleagues, have purposely done everything to threaten and destroy this people. Now they're trying to steal 15% of our territory in every possible way, and we need to ratify the environmental convention, we need to think globally and act locally. Do they think about us and our future? And you, Mr. Minister, show that you are thinking and that you will work towards the best future for us and our children, and not only, like most ministers, follow and blindly execute orders from abroad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7416	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milovanovic, then Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7417	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and distinguished fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, firstly to express the satisfaction that we have finally returned to the topic of this session. The adoption of proposed laws confirming conventions in the field of environmental protection, which are on the agenda today, provides, certainly, political and economic conditions for the Republic of Serbia to receive full support from the Sixth Ministerial Conference "The Living Environment for Europe", which will take place in Belgrade from October 10th to 12th, which would also mean obtaining financial resources from international organisations, for investment projects, for the construction of new and for the reconstruction of existing facilities. Each of those conventions has so far been verified by a large number of countries actively involved in addressing the problem of reducing environmental pollution. What has to be pointed out in particular is the following: Confirmation of those conventions is, above all, a civil act. As every man is a part of humanity, so no country can fight for itself against environmental pollution. No country only has its sea, only its great river and its own air. In a desire for unreasonable profit at all costs, man has disrupted the entire balance in the atmosphere with his technical inventions. There is no doubt that the main culprit for the violation of this natural harmony is human. In addition to other negative influences from humans, the following can be counted: unprofessional use of herbicides and pesticides, sea of wild waste dumps and other waste by roads and rivers, unconscious management of forest funds. I come from a municipality where the city's garbage dump is located near the settlement and along the river. It is therefore now the duty of every state government to gradually restore and restore natural balance. The ratification of those conventions would include Serbia in the international system of harmonising development with environmental conditions, in order to preserve the plant and animal world, forests, water, air and climate and in this symbiosis of human life and health. It is important to specify the fact that some 600 species are endangered in Serbia today, and some 500 species among animals. This involves an entire system of measures and procedures for each country, including ours, which is: identification of problems and degree of threat, priorities, long-term strategy, national strategy, national plans, international and regional co-operation, exchange of information and experience, scientific research and technology transfer, information and organisation of the population and legislative and institutional organisation. On the site of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, there are a number of good and necessary laws in the field of environmental protection. Some of them have already been adopted, and a large number are being prepared and some are under public discussion. The ministry has also adopted a number of regulations, instructions and recommendations of international and local importance, as well as several concrete measures that punish environmental pollutants. This means that Serbia has become aware that it needs to approach the solution to this problem at an extremely serious international, regional and local level. The DS will vote in favour of the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the UN Convention in the fight against desertification in countries with severe drought, the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Impact in the Transboundary Context, the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, the Law on the Conservation of Migration Species of Animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7418	The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, and let Predrag Mikic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda are five laws confirming conventions in the field of environmental protection, and I will try from a different aspect to approach these laws. Every country, every serious state, should take care of raising the material and spiritual well-being of its citizens. In itself, there is a question of how one who has nothing or one who has nothing to help others, how those who are hungry to help somewhere on the opposite side of the world to a country where hunger feels. We have a Convention here to fight land desertification in countries with heavy drought, especially in Africa. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in some parts of Serbia, we have Africa and as far as hunger and drought are concerned, and very rarely has the state reacted. I think this year has been dry, devastating for farmers in Serbia, and when we have a government, as we have now, which doesn't care about the concerns of its people, about the plight of the people, who violates the Constitution, behaves arrogantly and voluntarily, then, of course, there is no one to take care of the drought, or any compensation or mitigation of the situation in agriculture in Serbian peasants. A special type of degradation occurred during NATO bombings in the form of mechanical land damage, pollution of poor uranium, land pollution to oil derivatives. A large part of the EU's signatories took part and led Serbia's barbaric bombing, thus contributing and contributing to land desertification and environmental pollution. A colleague from the DS mentioned a truly wonderful speech by the head of Seattle. What happened to him? It was a nice speech, it was for textbooks, it is one of the most beautiful, but the chief didn't know that the Americans would crush his people, kill them, kill the food, kill the buffalo, and put him on the reservation himself. It's a destructive policy. Since then, there have been roots to this day. Three caves were created on our premises due to the occurrence of desertification and droughts: Deliblatska, Subotico-Horgoška and Ramsko-Golubačka. What is indicative, in 1996, was a huge forest fire that destroyed over 3,000 hectares of forest, causing the land to be exposed to new dangers. Subotic-Horgoska pedestrians have been recultivated 80%, and Ramsko-Glubačka is fully recultivated. We have a fire, an actual fire, unfortunately, on the Old Mountain, which also has beauty like the beauty of Carpathia, such as all the beauty of Carpathia and the mystics of those mountains, it truly assures me that God created the world and is full of Serbia of beautiful Serbian mountains. How much do we care about them? We were worried about the situation in Greece, but we didn't raise planes to our Old Mountain. It is particularly indicative of the migration species. One morning after October 5, the birds sang in the glory of the creator, but they had no idea that October 5th was bringing them bahathes, dissipated, ossions of ministers who went with rifles to birds who didn't know what was waiting for them after October 5th. The length of the shotgun is 15 meters. They were knights, they were heroes, they killed everything that sang. Were there any consequences? Have ever been mentioned and said, let's see who's responsible and who's the treasure of Serbia, as far as flora, fauna, sells for the bagatella to the Italians and everyone else. I'm a little hypocritical when I talk about these laws, I respect the intensity, the idea that someone in this sphere wants to fix it at least a little bit, but I don't think there's enough honesty. When we enter the grounds for an emergency procedure, then motivation, we are in a hurry to be accepted by the EU. No, Mr. Minister, I personally think, perhaps I'm wrong, that the motivation to pass these laws is the survival of the planet Earth, the survival of all of us, for the future of our children, not because someone is in a hurry to Europe as soon as possible, under any conditions. The pollution of rivers, the killing of fish, it's terrible, whether there's reincarnation or boarding school, I don't think there is, but to experience the fate of fish in the current Serbia, it's more than terrible. There's no healthy environment. Mr. Minister, I would use my right, as an MP from Smederev, from a city that has a lot of environmental issues, to be based on Article 198. I ask two questions about the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I spoke when he was on the Kyoto protocol agenda. You're nodding your head, you're a young man, I suppose, I want you to do your job in the interests of the Serbian citizens, to show seriousness, not theoretically, but also to act practically, to make the citizens of Serbia feel some improvement after our exposure and session, to feel it. The point is that we theoretically do everything here, we kill ourselves from work, but in practice none of the laws can live and that citizens say, we're better off right now. U.S. "Steel", "Sartid", that's where all the cruelty turned out, capital doesn't know about emotions. We in Smederev sold our health and health to our children. There's a line crossing, so when we go from town to village, ramp, we stop and watch hermetically closed wagons of which, really, personally, fear catches me, I don't know what it's like for others, nor do we know what's in those cars. There's a lot of them. And when they arrive at Sartid and when they stop processing that material, and all the secrets, the terrible secret that is in them, then the exhausting gases flood the sky, covering the sky over the villages of Radanac, Vranovo and Ralja and children of the first year are affected by asthma. Citizens also spoke to Boris Tadic and made roadblocks, which was the voice of the cryer in the desert, because no one wanted to hear them. Mr. Minister, answer me, answer the citizens of Smederev, the citizens of Serbia, all MPs, first question - what is the degree of pollution in Smedereva and the environment, the villages of Ralja, Vranovo and Radanac, and what will you do about these problems? Mr. Minister, the beauty of a mountain spring is in vain to speak to buffalo men who cannot drink until the water is clouded. We have another major pollution, it's political pollution, this pollution from which the smell of immorality and dishonesty, and the violation of the Constitution and the law feel after yesterday's debate in the Belgrade City Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7420	The word has a People's MP, Predrag Mikic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7421	Members of the Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, today when we talk about a single search under the proposals of the law on the validation of conventions in the field of environment I will have to give you an example from the municipality of Sombor, the Western District. To make it easier for you to understand me first, I'm going to show you the chronology of the events that happened. In early 2001, hunters were forbidden access to the upper forest hunting grounds near Odjak. There was an occasional gunshot from the hunting grounds, and a tiny shotgun was found. A representative of the local hunting association said he is working well with the agency "Re de Qiglie". In February 2001, a private zoo from Kolut received about 1,600kg of frozen birds from the agency "Lube Ju". The shipment was waiting for a transfer across the border to Italy, and it was located in DD Somboled's freezers. The deck was expired, still not paid, and the birds had to be removed from the freezer and the meat ended up like bear food. In the summer of 2001, Italian hunters killed domestic pigeons and gouts at the same location. A hunting forest inspector in Sombor then said he was not in charge of cases like this and was afraid of possible coincidences. In 2001, in the pond "Serbian Miletic", tourists killed a red-clad swan, and the penalty for this work is 2,000 euros. In December 2001, the largest shipment of killed birds in Europe, 120,702 birds, many of whom belong to protected species, were discovered at the Slovenian-Italian border in the ice-truck truck. After four months, since more than 120,000 illegally caught birds have been seized at the Slovenian and Italian border, the situation regarding an affair known as "Balkan birds" is like this: in Italy several associates of the agency that brings hunters to Vojvodina have been arrested, and more texts about birds have been published in the media here than ever. Officials and departments are investigating the case, and the owners of frozen hunting are waiting for things to calm down a bit. The only thing that remained obvious after the affair was that in Serbia someone under someone's protection and for big money killed birds that were protected by law in all other European countries. By the mid-1990s, hunting tourism had been in the state a controlled activity, carried out through legal hunting companies and agencies. According to the director of Loveturs, Zoran Ristic, about 8,000 hunters came to the country annually through this agency. For every bird caught, they paid taxes, and the money was poured into the state register. Meanwhile, the number of tourists fell to 250 hunters in 2000, or 500 hunters in 2001. The rest turned to newly established private agencies, organisations that allow hunting on their ground. Someone from hunting societies allows them to do so, but the money doesn't go to society, but to that person personally. The situation on the ground shows that hunting associations were aware of the problems, but that their hands were tied. According to Dragan Berka, president of the Mostong Hunting Association from Odzak, the association had the right to use part of the upper forest hunting grounds by 2005, but it was the right 8 June 2001 by the arrival of DOS authorities, taken away and given to the agency "Re de Qiglie". The law states that hunting grounds cannot be given to the use and management of foreign citizens. There are no more savages in that hunting grounds, no more control, now it's being hunted there, and it's going to be completely destroyed. As for the other owners of the agencies who were arrested, they had a contract with us for hunting grounds in Ratkovec and Brestovac, but there's no sign that they were hunting protected species. That's what we learned from the Italian press. Even in much more well - arranged countries, it may happen that someone on someone else's ground is engaged in illicit activities, but in this story it remains questionable how it is possible for a hunting ground to simply move from hand to hand. A team of hunters filed a lawsuit against the Ministry of Agriculture, but then the minister of "he can't hear and he can't see" in his ears. This isn't a mistake, it means "he can't hear it in his eyes and he can't see it in his ears." Officially, things are in place. Hunting sites whose use is in the jurisdiction of local hunting associations have been granted to private agencies. The lawsuits against the resolution ministries are probably in the process, the agencies are working successfully even after the "Balkan Birds" affair was discovered. As for the contracts that the hunting associations themselves make with private agencies, as indicated in the case of the Upper Forest, very easily they can turn into a private deal with someone who is willing to officially arrive to hunt, lead to poaching. Official documents have just allowed species – it is protected from transport, stored in domestic freezers, and usually revealed only to them at Hungarian or Italian borders. Thanks to the papasian use of hunting grounds, silence of competent inspections, ministries, Serbia is a dream for poachers. When an affair with seized birds broke out, the owner of Re de Qiglie, Count Pietro Arvedi, arrived in Doroslovo the same day. The Count is really rich. Sam said he invested over a million and a half euros here, which means he earned five times as much, says he knows the counterfeit market in the north of Vojvodina. According to his words, the main fault for the current situation is domestic legislation. When I said the Minister can't see it and he can't hear it in his eyes, I'll explain it to you on this particular case. At the time, Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov was just caught in such an unauthorized shop, poaching. That case is covered up. It will not surprise Serbian citizens one day to have foreign mentors ask authorities and ministers to walk on their hands. Many may walk, but there are also those who will walk and drop the money they dreamed of on their aunt's beds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7422	The word is made by the MP Ivana Zečević, and let Radovan Milovankić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7423	Fellow Members of the People, today there are five laws that are connected in some way, that is, they have something in common, which is almost the same legislation that serves them to implement these laws, basically means, the basic Act on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Environmental Impact, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Waters, the Law on Forests, and that I do not list them all, and in the reasons they have offered us along with these laws, it is said that after the adoption of these conventions, there will be no need for a change of legal regulations, i.e. it is thought that the legislative regulation regulated almost everything that is necessary for us to implement these conventions. Of course, here in the O.R., no one came out from the MPs, either side, to say something against these laws, in that it is not necessary to protect the environment, and every normal one will discuss the need to adopt any law that will help protect our environment. The only thing that matters to me is that every day we sometimes mention here that we haven't implemented the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, we don't have a constitutional state, and yet we are dealing with these laws that are, in some sense, in the present situation in our country. However, as we discuss them, I will look back at one of the elements. You stated in an explanation that a special type of land degradation was created by NATO bombing. Of course, we can only now be interested in whether the adoption of these conventions will help us if our country presses charges or claims for compensation and damage to NATO because of these consequences, whether it will help us to implement some of this and how much we will benefit from the adoption of the conventions in that sense. However, one measure and you state in all the reasons of these laws the measures for law enforcement and one of the measures that you state is preventing and restricting the use of land for non-agricultural purposes. In that sense, I'm just going to read you a part of your explanation where you actually realize that it's all regulated by law, and I'm going to tell you later and why I'm going to read this part. "The law states that environmental impact assessment is mandatory for projects that are planned and implemented in space, which can lead to environmental pollution or pose a risk to the environment and human health. The impact assessment shall be an integral part of the technical documentation and shall be developed in the process of bringing space to the purpose and obtaining a building permit. ''You further say in the text: ''In order to reconcile the conflicting interests in the field of protection and environmental improvement, it is necessary to carry out the evaluation process consistently, the way it is verified and to ensure public insight into the document made. '"I read this specifically to you, because this is a legal regulation, so it's regulated by the law and the laws that we have, which have already been adopted. I'll tell you what happens in practice. Laws are one thing, and practice is something else. I will give you an example in the municipality of Sitel, where one procedure is currently being conducted and one action to protect the environment in the village of Gardinovci. The company Restreid from Novi Sad bought the "Agricultural Combine Titel" in our municipality, of course, to do whatever it takes: take off the harvest, which is not charged, pays for small shareholders, but, by the way, in the village of Gardinovci, discovers that on a plot of 95 hectares, second and third classes of agricultural land, there is sand in the depths of 5 to 10 meters. Normally, the owner of the company calculates very easily how much it is at the size of 95 hectares and how much it is at the cost of cubic sand, and realizes that it is a lot of money, millions of euros, and calculates that it is worth more to exploit sand than to deal with agriculture. To get closer to listeners and citizens, who may have no idea how many 95 acres that's been calculated for me, that's about 250 football fields. It's still a very large area. What's going on next? The company Restreid, among other things, is an importer of John Dir tractors for our territory, doing regular work in accordance with the legislation, which exists, in order to produce the documentation they need. The municipality has no, no spatial plan, nor is any other plan intended to do anything other than agriculture in such a part of the land. Unofficially and practically, they give them approval for further documentation, and in the meantime, it will provide for a spatial plan. And of course, that's what happens in the spatial plan draft, past the plan committee, which was sitting next to them, there's a working zone in the middle of the Gardinovci Atatar, so suddenly in the middle of nowhere, right where this parcel is, which has a agricultural combination. During that time, the company conducted permits and ordered a study on environmental protection, done by the Institute for Prevention in Novi Sad. The Regional Secretariat shall, in accordance with the legal procedure, publish public insights and studies and establish the date on which the public hearing is to be held and the notification to the municipality shall be delivered. The municipality, if by any chance, does not inform the local community, or citizens, which are specifically concerned by what is to happen in their environment. All this is practically going to its own course and the citizens, quite accidentally, find out about it and three days before the public insight comes to an end and, of course, there are always those who react correctly. They realized that it was a huge area and that after exploiting it it would be a crater of incredible size, with a depth of 5 to 10 meters, if not deeper, everything depends on where it comes across water. Normally, they demand that the designers of the study appear in the bodies, in the institutions of the municipality, to explain their study. In that study, I can tell you, when we read it, there was all sorts of nonsense. That's what I'm saying, because these studies are practically done on purpose and copied, and the question is how familiar the public is with what the law predicted and what is done in accordance with the law. The study said that there would be a huge crater that would be recultivated by shot and construction waste, so we asked the lady who was the project bearer how many houses and villages should be destroyed in order to bury such a large hole, so she replied that she didn't have to, that it could be forested. We asked, "Who's going to blow holes and who's going to think of it?" And she said she didn't have to, but she could be a pond." In any case, it was not accepted, that study was not adopted and a new study was under way, and for this lady the procedure was initiated to take away her license, since she was not seriously doing her job. However, this company has not stopped – one study has not been adopted and another one is being produced. They've submitted officially, all regularly, they've spoken to the municipality, investigative actions are under way, and from the Ministry of Mining and Energy, I think they've received approval or consent, in which regard it needs to be obtained. Why are the citizens responding? Because it's abnormal that one agricultural land of such a class, second or third class, turns into something where no one knows what's going to happen after the sand is exploited. Why? I can show you a picture in my village, there are already such craters, these are pictures from newspapers, half a hectare. Probably some company exploited sand day and night, and when it was done, they were gone; no one had solved that hole; the hole remained the same as it was on agricultural land. You don't even know who bought it, it's some old ladies who can't handle it anymore, and you don't know who to apply to get it back to the original state. In any case, representatives of the Kovilj monastery reacted, and I can read to you what Jeromonah Nikanor said at a press conference: 'This huge area of almost 100 hectares, the depth of five to seven meters in the middle of fertile land, is nowhere in Vojvodina. It would create a number of problems for residents of surrounding settlements and the monastery itself, especially the Holy Friday chapel with the famous oak, located along the road, which would carry heavy cargo vehicles. It is a symbol of the Kivil and the monastery, and only the monastery building has existed since the 12th century. Those who have offered such a study are totally unserious, so they should not allow them to accomplish their intentions. ''That is why I am taking the opportunity to ask the question – what will you do as a minister with your Ministry, and it is also responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture to approve a permit, to take the initiative to protect the environment in the village of Gardinovac, because one is a legal regulation, and this regulation is practically respected here, as the company does. When it's on the path of public insight, the ad was published in the "Divnik" list, and believe me, nobody reads it, people read "Kurir", "Justice", "Blic", or I don't know which other newspapers. However, the form is respected, and citizens are poorly informed about it and do not know what is going on. This is how all the permits are forced out and the company does what it wants to do – to earn and collect the profits, and then remains for the locals to worry about what will happen to their environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7424	I thank you, the word has a People's MP, Radovan Milovankic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again we have a situation to conduct a joint single search on several proposals for conventions. The real question would be, when almost all MPs agreed, which is why we're doing this, which is why there's no more room and time for such important things that are vital, but to get back on the subject. The first draft law confirming the UN Convention on the fight against desertification practically introduces us to the situation that we must bear in mind that the aim of this Convention is to prevent and reduce the degradation of land, land space, and certainly the restoration of a partially degraded area. It's obvious from all the previous speeches and texts that have been made here that nothing is disputed in this Convention. What I want to point out is that a few steps earlier should be applied, or a house of foundation, not a roof. This is the five known measures that we have not heard here from representatives of the government or at least MPs of the government, which is: water erosion control, land acidification, a better system of consultation on land degradation issues, to be available to farmers as the most needed group, then, setting up a healthy, or completely new system of subsidies, land protection and, ultimately, the introduction of better water and land management systems, of course, I think. Mostly in the area of agriculture. When I say this, no democratic authority has dealt with this in its depth since October 5th to this day, so it was expected for them to direct their knowledge and engagement precisely in areas where it should be, and we do not have any positive examples in terms of land productivity and household land management and water management. The second draft law confirming the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context also raises a number of questions. The first question the minister should answer is, perhaps the last minister, since all governments are concerned from October 5th to the day, what have they done to repair the source of excessive air pollution and did the country's industrialisation assume the health of the nation? There's very little that's been done to this day. In practice, you yourself, gentlemen, have brought out a few examples of dirty technology to Serbia, and in this part I call you, I call upon you to read carefully the answer you gave to the MP, Mr Jojic, and it concerns the pollution of Pančev. There will be a practical solution for all or at least a touched solution to all of these conventions that you have set here on your own. Since time is limited to leaving for other fellow Members, Mr. Minister, I will remind you that some ministers like or the same portfolio as you in the West have come into a situation to face problems, the same or the same as you. They had twice. Some ministers have set out to establish new parties that had the omens of an environmental or green party, and other ministers, I have no doubt that you will also start to fight against the boards of directors of individual companies that are privatised here in Serbia. I'm sorry to tell you this, but you've already lost that battle in advance. I come from Kruševec, from Rasin County, you promised me here when I gave you the papers that you'd run something, and nothing has been launched until today. I'm going to remind you, these boards of directors, I'm going to use every next chance, and the amendments, to bring out which companies they are. You said it wasn't about the Ministry of Ecology. Of course, that's where the Minister of Agriculture should sit. This area is tightly bound. I thank you for your time, and I think you've lost your advance battle.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7426	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let Božidar Koprivica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this united item of the agenda covers the area where I come from. from South Banat County, especially the city of Pancheva, which represents a black zone in Europe. It is interesting that there is no threat to the population of Panchev in environmental pollution analyses, and I believe Panchevo is one of the most polluted cities in Serbia. Why am I saying that? That confirms the fact that 40 years ago, he's been doing the Rafinery, 45 years for "Azotara," almost 30 years for Petrochemy, which has 11 factories in its composition. Petrochemy was bombed, Azotara was bombed by the NATO Pact and our enemies, and so was the Rafineria. Petrochemy has succeeded with its own resources, without the involvement of the state, in repairing and replacing many facilities. The biggest problem, however, is the Panchevo Oil Refinery. In the "Pancevo oil refinery" there are huge quantities of the worst oil quality imported from Syria and there is a service processing done, and the biggest importer who has processed the service is the "Trizon". It is the one that has imported huge quantities; the processing is done in Pancheva, the tanks are full, open, evaporation is daily, continuous, for many years, and therefore I believe Panchevo is one of the most polluted cities in the country. In addition to this fact, the fact that Panchev is registered and is suffering from around 7,000 cancer citizens. The state hasn't been involved in revitalising these factories, just with very little resources in the last year. However, exports from these factories are extremely high – 20% of Serbia's budget is being charged from the Pancheva region, "Rafineria", "Petrochemia" and "Azotara". Petrochemy exported over 300,000 euros in its own products in 2006. The "Rafinery" also participates in the domestic and foreign markets, but everything goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with these funds at its disposal by the government, and does not have workers to repair and replace their factories. In the last five or six years, there have been countless cases where the Pancians were preparing to evacuate from pollution, which threatened disaster, especially during the time of the bombing. The vast amounts of enemy war poisons and mercury have poisoned the air, land and water on the territory of the Pancheva municipality. What is also characteristic of the health minister, Tomica Milosavljevic, is one question: "Who ordered and who ordered the citizens of Pancheva municipality to refer to radiation and inspections in Sremska Kamenica and Novi Sad, not to go to Belgrade at a distance of 15km? ''So, the citizens of Pancheva are forced to travel 200km in both directions to seek medical help, and especially when it comes to the season, cancer patients, who have great pains and great suffering, are subject to further unnecessary treatment. If the health care law prescribes and says that citizens are authorized, that they have the right to choose a doctor, to choose a health care institution, how come the health minister now has the right to determine that the citizens of South Banat are going to Sremska Kamenica and Novi Sad and not to Belgrade? Where did that come from? The health minister to answer, who ordered it, and whether to change that decision to use health services where they are closer, rational and cheaper, which is Belgrade, by citizens of Pancheva and Southern Banat. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Panchevo, in the center of Pancheva, there's the Minister of Ecology, there's a dump. 12 years ago, a new dump began to be built. In the last five years, it's been collected from an ecological tax of billions of dinars, and there's no telling where it's been spent. The local self-government of the democratic bloc must lay down accounts where a billion dinars went, when two or three dumps could be made. They hired Alka Weso, a private company that took about 100,000 dinars and left the works. We're looking for an answer to who concluded such a deal? Has the contract been completed? If so, in what extent and why? Secondly, Srdjan Mikovic is the president of the municipality, of course from the DS, in the middle of Pančev, in a village called Kudeljara, there is a cattle cemetery. Citizens of that part of the village can't live off the smell and other environmental problems. The Nadel River, from the municipal budget, has been allocated millions over the last few years, you don't know where that money is, it's polluted. The Tamish River is polluted. The people of Panchev can't use the Tamish River and can't use children, or citizens in the summer time to go out to the river, which is in the middle of the city, and that's where they run, to bathe. Panchevo has a pool that worked in the army 45 years ago. Some Colonel Žizic, was the commander of the Panchev tank unit, thanks to him that pool was built, and the citizens of Pančeva do not have a pool, as it is built in other cities. The biggest budget, ladies and gentlemen, after four cities in the Republic of Serbia is the Pančeva budget of 3.5 billion dinars. Come to Panchevo to see if anything is being built, if you know where that money is going, and the most polluted city is Panchevo. So Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac are four cities with only a bigger budget as cities than the Pančeva budget. What about the money this year for 3.5 billion dinars? I repeat, what about the environmental tax? Will the budgetary inspection of the Republic Government step into at least that Pancheva Municipality Assembly, to come to the city to determine whether the use of environmental tax funds has been purposely carried out? Because they're huge funds that are being raised, first of all in the Rafineria, the Petrochemy and the Azotari, as well as the railways that bring the tanks and the boats to the Danube. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I must point out that the citizens of the Pancheva municipality are really exposed to a major problem which the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not attach any importance to. I note that the local government of Pancheva cannot solve the problem of environmentalism in Pancheva without state. If I say that the state is vacuuming hundreds of millions of euros annually into the budget from the southern industrial zone in Panchev, then it is time for a certain amount and one percent to focus on solving environmentals. It's impossible for the technology to work in 45 years without what's been happening in Panchev lately. I said that a large number of citizens are in a very difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, children instead of schools, in Panchev, if you could visit health institutions, or not in schools and entertainment schools, there is a high percentage of them in medical institutions in the exams, receive certain medications and treatments. I can't understand, because how many times I insisted as an SRS MP, as the other SRS committees in Pančev raise these issues, ask questions and ask for an answer – where are the money and when will be revitalised and replaced by the technology that has been overcome. There's no more technology in Bangladesh like it is in Panchev. In Europe, the dirtiest technology is concentrated in Panchev. I told you that only Petrochemy has 11 factories. At the Azotara, the tanks were opened, when we asked a question last year and last year, and recently a few months ago, the Minister of Ecology ordered the closure of certain facilities in the Azotara. However, the SRS is not for the closure of the factory, but it is for the responsibility of the entities working in those factories, if human factors have led to pollution and the release of harmful substances. The citizens of Pancheva expect the government to allocate funds, expect the Minister of Ecology to resolve the issue, however much it is in its power. If you can't, then the minister will resign, and someone who is able to resolve the issue will come; to make the government understand once that a cow cannot shepherd in Pancheva and that Kostunica and Tadic are the museum in Belgrade. It can't. The fact is, do an analysis, gentlemen, as far as the last 20 years have gone from Panchev to Novi Sad and Belgrade. Pancho's a palace, one simple palace. There are about 80 km of roadways from the time of Maria Teresa, and 85 km of canals are gone, and they say it's all an ecology. Yeah, well, if it's ecologically pave the streets, make parks, create kindergartens, replace plants in factories, get those who operate these factories to establish discipline, to get the government to allocate funds, a resolutely competent ministry to control them. Secondly, in the past, it has been proven that the Pancheva judiciary has done nothing against certain persons who were the only culprits in some of the catastrophic situations in which the citizens were. Every 10-15 days, citizens have to close windows at night, no openings. In the middle of summertime, the scarfs close, the windows don't open, there's no opening, people die. The settlement of Vojlovica, Topola, Sagittarius, Sodara settlement, the city center, it's a disaster for you, that these citizens don't know where they're going or what they're going to do. It's interesting, although I'm saying this here, the MPs of the SRS and the councilmen in Panchev, that no one is doing anything. Only now it's included as far as we can see the current Minister of Ecology, but that's not enough. It has to be boring, it has to be energetic, and you have to fight it, Mr. Minister, that the Panchets breathe at least roughly clean air, because they have the right to live like other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7428	I thank my colleague Jojic. He's got a word from a colleague named Dusan Mrvos. Do you have a right to a replica? Here you go. There's a word from MP Dusan Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to comment and add something based on the presentation of a distinguished colleague and fellow citizen, Peter Jojic. counterpart Peter Jojic's speech causes a double feeling. On the one hand, as a Pančevac, I absolutely support what Mr. Jojic said, because Pančevo is really polluted and Pančevo really needs help. On the other hand, there's a series of cobwebs, I'd say, not a fact, but data that's roughly like this: "Rafineria" and "Petrochemicals" have tanks, but they're not open. Mr. Jojic, you know it well, as I know, others know it's swimming roof tanks. There are 144 tanks in the Rafineria where raw oil is stored, and five in Petrochemy, while in Petrochemy plus there are two pre-warrants. The previous minister, along with the previous government, did not say it, but the previous government invested more than 90,000,000 euros in the reconstruction of these tanks, or swimming trenches, first reconstructed 27 tanks in the worst condition, and then another 80. By the end of this year or early next, it should be reconstructed all 144. One outpost has been reconstructed, it will be reconstructed and the other etc. It's not true that nothing is done. We just support what you said, Mr. Jojic, and that's another appeal to continue as it began in the past period or faster than that. There's another fact that hasn't been realized, one piece of information. At the government meeting, before the end of last year, a decision was made in Vrsac to grant Pančevo 200 million dinars for gasification, as the gasification started in Pančev, Pančevo is one of the first cities in which the gasification was started, and it is likely to be the last city where the gasification will end, and to help a little. I have to comment on the fact about the dump. The new dump, Mr. Jojic, you know that because you and some SRS committees went to a new dump, it's practically over now. More wastewater treatment facilities need to be done to obtain the necessary authorisation, because without wastewater treatment facilities, no applicable authorisation can be obtained. Another appeal, I will join all Mr. Jojic's appeals regarding Panchev, on you, Mr. Minister. From the National Investment Programme. Despite the fact that mentioning the president of the municipality and the local self-government in Panchev mainly do not work or at least are not agile to the extent that the citizens of Pancheva want it, local self-government has applied for the National Investment Programme, so anything that can and what is related to ecology, I urge you, as a minister and as a member of the Government, to help the citizens of Pancheva live better. How well they'll live, it's up to them, but to live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7430	Replica, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected Mr. Mr. Mrvos to say what is the amount of oil that is as a service processing lagered in the "Rafinery" and which further poisons the citizens of Panchev. On the other hand, when it comes to dumps, I expected Mr. Mr. Mrvos to say when she would be put into office, and when the dump was closed in the middle of the city, how much she cost so far, from 12 years ago, that's when it started to build, the CEOs of the JKP 'Higien' changed, the contractors changed, the investor changed. There's a problem, there's no consistency, there's no budget control. So now I ask the question and ask for an answer to carry out a budget inspection – how much will it cost, because this new dump is still under construction until a useful permit is obtained, as Mr Mrvos said. It is not functional, but we know that in the previous period it was quite invested, from 10 years ago, but this continuity was not maintained and because of the various problems it was not meant to be, this dump should have been built long ago, this new one, and so that Panchevo, however, as a city, was one of the arranged cities, as it has in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7432	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srboljub Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7433	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think it's under the authority of the Ministry of Ecology, that no organic waste disposal plant can be built, as a factory in Capco should be built. Former Science and Ecology Minister Aleksandar Popovic has given consent to the construction of such a factory, which unfortunately has not been built thanks to the SRS and the citizens of the Sabic municipality. It was not built because citizens were aware of the dangers of this factory, which was to be built in three stages. However, it did not pass, but now it is done more perfiddenly and another factory is being built in the area of the Sabbath municipality, whose owners, unfortunately, are two senior DS officials, Dusan Petrovic and Boris Tadic. They are co-owners and were scheduled to sign with the owner of the company Koseko, from the area of Veneto in Italy, last April 1st, to transfer the factory from Romania to the area of Serbia, i.e. the area of the Sabbath municipality. However, when the Serbian Chamber of Commerce was scheduled to admit all successful businessmen of the Sabacan municipality and then sign the protocol, it was not signed because the owner of the company Koseko was arrested by Italy, and the company's representative was arrested in Belgrade. (President: I warn, we are not presenting insinuations and assumptions for the assembly speaker, especially when it comes to high-ranking officials of the Serbian state. Please, let's take care of it. I'm asking you not to interrupt me. When I'm done, go out for this pay phone and say what you want. To end up secretly carrying out that signature, but the condition was to provide 10 hectares of the country for the construction of this factory and to build an independent road, which would be connected to the highway and from the National Investment Programme, that road is now in circulation. I have to tell you that by falsifying it at SO Shabac, actually the council voted that memo, or counting it, because it wasn't a sufficient number... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... but they wanted to transfer the crime to the SO boards. What's also devastating is that this factory actually has one program in it for destroying radioactive matter. The dump has already been found, on the slopes of Cera, so I now warn the minister that as soon as he responds, there is no such factory as the killer's factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7434	National MP Zoran Despotovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and then according to the Rules of Procedure Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7435	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the Rules of Procedure and by Rule 221. I am taking the opportunity because MPs from the SRS have limited time for this debate and for this reason I have reported to the Rules of Procedure. All environmental problems need to be tackled and reduced or even eliminated. In order for that to happen, we must at least sort of figure out how certain human activity affects that environment, human health. We need to gain knowledge of the extent of the impact of these actions, of their range and function and of the inability of human ability to solve the consequences. At the same time, we need to learn more and understand better the existing environmental problems, i.e. their mechanisms of action, the cause of the election of the consequences, as well as the measures needed to combat and eliminate the consequences. As environmental relations and human activity are observed and vice versa, it is concluded that environmental degradation can have serious consequences for human health, poverty, economic development, and even national security. The seriousness of environmental degradation is not yet fully known, so it is often underestimated. All human activities are related to consumption and production. This fact is reflected in the demand for natural resources, on the one hand, in environmental pollution, on the other hand. The consequences of unsustainable human consumption are becoming increasingly evident through regional and global environmental problems, such as climate change, ozone consumption, environmental incident, fresh water pollution, degradation of forests and soil, the introduction of genetic, in the last few years, modified organisms and the creation of increasing waste. When it comes to funding the environmental protection system, it raises the question of what about the funds provided in Article 87. Law on the protection of the environment from the compensation for the owners of freight vehicles, the transport of oil and petroleum products, chemical and other waste materials for the industry in that territory. These funds must be used for purposely to protect and improve the environment. The question arises whether the Ministry and the competent inspection services have insight into the use of these funds. I would say something about the migratory species of wild animals, the Uvac area is one of the most representative and important areas of endangered and rare birds. Special attention is drawn to white-headed soup, then birds of prey, owls, and other bird species found on world, European and national lists. There's a white-headed soup at risk. Serbia, with its continental climate, is an extremely suitable area for Mediterranean species, which has conditioned that we have a white-headed soup choosing habitats such as ravines, canyons for the accommodation of our colonies. It's about the subject, Mr. Chairman, so I'd like to ask you for a few more minutes. The white-headed soup is the last species from the vulture sub-family, which is held in Serbia until today, which is our largest bird with a wing range of 2.8m and weighing between 7.5m and 11 kg. In the first half of the last century, the white-headed soup represented a number of species in Serbia and was widespread. One of the factors in the survival of white-headed soup is the amount of available food, and it is exclusively related to dead domestic cattle or wild but rare. In the eastern Serbian mountain-stocer region, the population of white-headed soup has been reduced due to the use of poisonous baits in the fight against predators, wolves, foxes and stray dogs. The extremely small number of white-headed soup, with low reproductive potential, indicates the necessity of measures that will ensure the survival conditions of this species in nature and contribute to the stabilisation and increase of the population of this reserve. The building of the feeding site reduces the arena activity, and it is from 120 to 150 km, thus reducing the possibility of poisoning with poisonous baits. So built feeding grounds, therefore, where there is a permanent source of food, also affects the retention of young populations where maturation lasts from 4 to 7 years. Birds of this kind regularly fly out of the Mileshevka colony, so you should consider building one or the other. So they come to the Uvac nutrient, and in a smaller number from other areas of the Balkan Peninsula. I apologize and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7436	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a huge scandal at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the benches of MPs officials from the National Assembly began to share this paper uninformed, in which it writes – the Republic of Serbia, the Government, the number and that, on 9 October 2007, the National Assembly. So without an employer of the National Assembly and here it now writes – the government delivered it to the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7438	Miss Jovanovic, a moment, I'll give you your time. As for the workman, the congregation service was warned to seduce and seduce the distribution to the National Assembly, multiplied, as is the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7439	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I'm just talking about that it's a scandal, you know, to share some papers that have nothing to do with the National Assembly, but it's some letter sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because this isn't a entertainment site, that's not the way kids play it. The moment they started, uninformed and unemployed, to share this paper, and I'll read what it says, which cannot survive and you won't be able to continue the session as you imagined, they saw, or received a warning from you, not stamped, not seduced and – pulling off the bench. Even if it were seduced in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this memo by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Albianic, you can bring it as a memory in Požeg, there in your house, to frame it and to hang it on the wall. This doesn't mean anything and this can't survive the Rules of Procedure, as much as you've been lurking and thinking, and you and Mrs. Kolundjia, what you've been doing for two hours, you've come up with something, Mrs. Kolundjia, that can't survive in the Rules of Procedure. The session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia began on October 1st, this year, with the agenda that you all have ahead of you and the proposals to bring together certain points of the agenda in the principle debate, in particular, and we have now reached a set of agendas. These agenda points, in order to make it clear to the public, have their own representatives of the proposing, i.e. the resolution ministers who had to sit in desks for ministers in the government today, who should explain the proposals of these acts. It is the agreements for which ministers Rasim Ljajic, Vuk Jeremic and Dusan Petrovic are responsible. It is that in yesterday it was quite obvious that Vuk Jeremic, who left for Portugal this morning, will not be able to attend the National Assembly session, and this uproar atmosphere of yesterday and the whole situation was such that the discussion went on in the second course, you resorted to it, since you found yourself in unguarded grapes, there is no Vuk Jeremic, Rasim Ljajic, you are authorized to take care of what our people would say, both about grandmothers and frogs. It can't. Rasim Ljajic is not a person for everyone. If he's the minister of a particular area, he has his own portfolio. You're sitting in that bench anyway, and he could have called you Bozidar Djelic, who signed in this memo, and to say, you're there for two days anyway, so while you're there, let's explain the conventions concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries, including the Ministry of Justice. But you wouldn't accept it, Mr. Minister, because you're not in charge of it. Rasim Ljajic was forced to do so because of the fact that there is no Vuk Jeremic. During the session, he started... (President: Time.) It's not time, it's time for me to explain to you, Mr. Albianic, that you can't play with the National Assembly. First, you didn't send me a memo as one of the vice presidents that you were authorized by Oliver Dulic to chair, and you know that when the president isn't here to do it the oldest. I have learned that Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic has been prevented, and the other by age is Mr. Judžević and I don't know where you get the right to wander in and out of here at any moment, and you come in and you bring us these memos by which you want to break the course of the session. Rasim Ljajic cannot be an authorised representative of the Government by several members of the Rules of Procedure, as referred to in Articles 87, 93 and 136, if you wish to have on the agenda of this Convention as regards the confirmation of the Agreement of the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of Romania on the Point of Meeting of State Borders between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by a three-way border mark on its maintenance, which was submitted by the Government, as well as a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Benelux countries on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, which the Government has submitted, that you have here Vuk Jeremic. Have the plane return nicely from Portugal, so when Vuk Jeremic comes to you, please, let's discuss the ratification of these agreements. As far as corruption is concerned, bring this corrupter, Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic, and when he is on the bench for the minister, let's talk about these two conventions concerning corruption. Rasim Ljajic can only stand before the National Assembly today – then give up the joint search, and you can't do that simply, just all points to pull apart from this Ljajic – to explain the obligation to social security agreement. Everything else falls into your water, Mr. Albianic. Rest assured, you see how many MPs the SRS are, that, as you have seen since this morning, we protect the Constitution, we protect the laws, we protect the Rules of Procedure, you won't be able to continue the session in the way you imagined it. Invite Vuk Jeremic to return from Portugal, Dusan Petrovic, wherever he is, so, please, let's go then with a joint principled search, under Article 93, explain the proposal submitted to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7440	Ms. Jovanovic, honourable Members of the People, as referred to in Article 194. The government determines its representative in the National Assembly. There's no reason for us to get involved in this. The government determines members of the government who represent it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session. Therefore, I read the following letter: "The Republic of Serbia, the Government, 05 No 011-4477/2007, since 9 October 2007, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government provided the National Assembly with a proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the meeting of the state border between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by a three-way border code and its maintenance; a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the governments of the Benelux countries on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports; a proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol on Criminal Convention on Corruption; a draft law confirming the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. With this in mind, we would like to inform you that a representative of the Government in the National Assembly, when considering these draft laws, has been appointed Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Republic of Serbia – National Assembly, received 9. Ten. In 2007, number 03 011-4477/07" was seduced. Thank you and we can continue our work, everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7441	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia needs to be appointed as a guardian urgently, because this is not normal, and far from being in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government of the Republic of Serbia must finally and definitely understand that MPs do not serve to play with them. Of course, part of the MPs have been made available to the government, in that sense. It is their right, but we, MPs of the SRS, will not allow the government of the Republic of Serbia to insult our intelligence and insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens who sent us to these assembly benches. I didn't say at first, but now I'm going to say, I'm going to intervene under Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, and I will probably end up with Article 241 in the course of the day, because we have no intention of giving up our intervention in the Rules of Procedure, by all the members you have sinned against, Mr Albianic, you and the majority of the assembly. Because we saw that there was a panic when you realized that you needed to start the next set of bill, that there was no Minister Vuk Jeremic, who should present the first two laws. I don't know what is wrong with Mr Jocic and Petrovic, who should also be represented in the Assembly of these laws. One of the ministers who was supposed to present the laws is Mr Rasim Ljajic. Then what did you do? Then you thought, like, we'd now accept this proposal. First, the fax president arrived at the table, allegedly, a fax from the government, signed by Bozidar Djelic and informed us that, on behalf of the Government, Mr Rasim Ljajic would represent these four laws, and we had already proposed that one of the laws represented Rasim Ljajic. Then, a team upstairs, to show us how stupid the government thinks we are, and that we are not taking care of our work, and then they single out the bill that was supposed to represent Rasim Ljajic, so it lets us know that Mr. Rasim Ljajic, that I am not reading all the laws in question, that in some other, third, fifth or 17 announcements today, anyway, I'm going to read to you. Mrs. Kolundjia, you suggested joining the agenda points, not just these, but the others. Every time you suggest it, we warn you – do not suggest a merger of the agenda points, first of all because it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, or in this case, because you have reunited the grandmothers and frogs, and here you see what you bring yourself to. (President: Time.) I'm done. If you hadn't had a proposal and had not adopted a proposal to merge the agenda points, the session would have run normally, according to the Rules of Procedure. You're in a hurry somewhere, I don't know where, so gather around, so you can talk about we have 32 points on the agenda, then you've collected them all in four or five points, I don't know how many. Now you have a problem, we all have a problem. So we Serbian radicals do not agree to blackmail, to belittled by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We insist that there be a minister here whose bill is being discussed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7442	Dear People’s MPs, the Government, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has delivered to the National Assembly who is represented in the National Assembly, Article 194. This morning, in the morning's work, we lost an hour and 20 minutes to report to the Business Office on the issue of the City Assembly. Now I see again many hands of MPs who appear in the Rules of Procedure. We must take serious care that the work of the Assembly and the work of the assembly sessions is paid by the taxpayers of this country. We can't use obstruction as a method, when it's all done in the case of regulations and laws. So I'm really asking you to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to the agenda, as follows. Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic, according to Business, then Momir Markovic and Zarko Obradovic, according to Business.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess, unfortunately, that the chairman of one thing is right. He says we spent an hour and a half at the beginning of the work of the Serbian Parliament because we were dealing with problems that occurred in the City of Belgrade Assembly, because it was time spent for him, and it looks like time lost, and it seems to you, too, because we spent that hour and a half trying to convince you that most in Parliament should not be abused. You don't need to violate the Rules of Procedure you brought yourself, but to work in accordance with that Rules of Procedure. The fact that you're in trouble, that you're trying to solve it in a completely wrong way. You will not tell me that for these points of the agenda, Rasim Ljajic, whom I respect, is an expert in proposing before the government. I know you have ministers who are experts. You don't have to give them anything at all, and I suggest that you don't set a resort for the ministers at all. Just write down the minister, because you're the experts on everything. You've done your job. Then all you have to do is tell the minister that and he'll be a pronoun in front of the government and there won't be any problems. I'll tell you the true anecdote that happened to confirm the situation with your ministers. I'm sure, Mr. Albianic, no matter what he has to do, he stretches and holds the ruling majority's side, that he heard that story, and he knows it's completely true. Before we started in Strasbourg, among other things I heard from a representative of the DS and I will not mention his name, members of a delegation for European integration at the Ministry of Education came to Minister Budimir Lončar, came and moved, came and Mr Lončar and introduced himself – I am Mr Budimir Lončar, Minister for Local Self-Government. They look at the papers, they say, I'm sorry, it says here for education, yes, yes, yes, it says, for education. That reminds me of whether you're a musician, yes, I'm a musician, no, no, I'm not. It's about the case and the situation with this kind of way to avoid working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because, look, we're correct... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, I'm ending up, we've accepted correctly to bring together the debate on certain points of the agenda. Don't say we're obstructing now. We accepted that. The meeting is open, the debate has started, the government's proposings are listed. Now you're having a problem and you're changing it. Can't, take it off the agenda, skip that agenda point, give something else, break the session formally this one, and schedule a new one, do something that allows you to do by the Rules of Procedure. Don't break the Rules of Procedure all the time. It's gonna hit your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7444	Please read Article 194 really carefully. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a People's MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Zarko Obradovic. We have one correct request from the minister, since he has another speaker and ends the agenda and has nothing to do with... Why did you put this in the process? Please don't throw it away. Let him finish the agenda correctly, so we can keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7445	Give me back my time, because you spent this time talking to the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wonder, I ask the citizens of Serbia, how long will someone abuse this National Assembly and violate... (President: So do I. )......................................................................................................... The dignity of the National Assembly and of the People's Messengers. The three branches of government of which, I say, are the most equal, because before us, before the MPs the ministers swear an oath, before us the MPs of the judges swear an oath. The resolution ministers have to sit here because the MPs will have a lot to ask these ministers. It can't be that one minister, given the circumstances, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, of course, I have nothing against him, I have nothing against his ministry, but I do mind that he tells me about the agenda point here to explain the foreign minister. I object that he tells me about the agenda point for which the minister of justice should sit, because by that logic, things could have been done by the Minister of Ecology today not to come and to Rasim Ljajic "Katica for All". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must not allow anyone to wipe the floor with this institution in which we sit and with the name of the MP. Enough of the reputation and the names of the People's Messengers to be broken. There has been a lot of drag through public disinformation in the Serbian Government Service and the names of the MP and the National Assembly. The debate on this agenda cannot begin unless the ministers who are resolute are seated. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, our MPs should not be interested in the fact that they've divided the ministries by esnafi, according to the portfolios, made a spa from the ministries; the Minister of Ecology, I suppose, from his party almost everyone, to the cleaning woman, the minister of capital investment, from his party to the reader, the minister of health, from his party to the cleaning woman, so whoever gets into the ban, then he's converted to Boston. However, this is about something else, the White World Ministers' Society fell apart, although they did not know that a session of the National Assembly was scheduled, even though they knew that their points were on the agenda of the National Assembly, even though they knew they had to sit here, even though they knew they had to respond, perhaps because of that, that they had to respond to the MPs. They're gone, they've got a lot of work to do. When the work is done, let's continue the session, because it is illusory to discuss the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia with the ministers of Romania, etc. It is illusory to discuss in front of Minister Ljajic any item on the agenda, except for the agenda point concerning...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7446	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7447	Mr Albianic, as chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and that is the case. 96th and 104th. I would ask you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, from now on, when you are chairing meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and when you need to make a comment about what is happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to leave the presidency to one of your colleagues, and then go out for a pay phone and say whatever you think you should. Do not give us from the chair’s post, abuse of the presidency’s work, teach us lessons, and highlight moral courts, and give us lectures on how the congregation, or MPs, should work and behave. You have objected to MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who appear wanting to point out the situation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in one attempt, definitely, to say that they are being manipulated by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to conceal the fact that ministers are unable to come and participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You wanted to hide it. You made one comment on the taxpayer's spending money, and you're worried about it. You say that as a member of the ruling coalition at a time when no one lives in Serbia knows how funds are spent from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and you know for yourself how much money and nobody knows how much money is alive, here you ask the Council for the fight against corruption, that's what we should discuss, so they'll tell you if they know, the example works, as someone who is the professional advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, how money is spent. Don't tell us about spending money, but if you're talking, come out here and give us a concrete example, when we have such a government and a Assembly that, because of the agreement on the structure of the State Auditing Institution, three weeks after the annual vacations, has not called this assembly. You're telling us about spending money. What money? You know that Serbia is costing the government the most expensive work and the behavior of members of the ruling coalition. Why don't you talk about it? Why don't you talk about other things that happen in Serbia, which are absolutely bad? Do you know how money from the National Investment Plan is spent, how money from other funds available to the ministries is spent? Why don't you tell me how do dots that don't have a soft spot connect together, how do dots pull out of the agenda that's on the agenda? What are these reasons, why don't you explain it to us as chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Explain why point 18 was withdrawn. Explain this to us why the National Assembly is not discussing this, but if you want to abuse the position of the chairman, then it is not fair to us MPs either. Unfortunately, you have the impression, I have the impression that you possess certain qualities that are not measured by the chairman. I remind the MPs that the same chairman misused the departure of MPs from one session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and called out MPs who were not even present in the hall. It speaks of a model that is absolutely inappropriate to the chairman. It's a shame you're acting like one. Go out for this pay phone and tell me what you have, but don't give a flat-rate assessment of the work of the MPs or you show concern about the spending of taxpayers' money. If you have something concrete, go ahead, say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7448	National MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not surprised at the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It aims to bring legal proposals to the Serbian Parliament as soon as possible, with fewer discussions, as little discussion as possible, to keep their own confusion and often stupidity in the laws they write as quickly as possible and to continue their work. Prior to the start of this regular session, ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia were two months afraid of MPs that the Serbian Parliament would meet day and night, because, behold, so many laws have been passed, which have been reformed, which lead Serbia to Europe, etc. Of the 32 laws you have passed, which the Government has referred to in the congregation procedure, only four or five can be called the right law. The other 27 or 28 legislative proposals are agreements, etc., which confirms to me that a large number of ministers in July, August, and in September, too, were on some kind of vacation. I suppose in order to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this assembly majority accepts the conditions requested and prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is certainly an indignity of both the National Assembly and each of the People's Messengers individually. If you look at how you wanted to bring this discussion together, I'll read what points of the agenda are coming together in this case. So, the bill to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on social security, item 15 of the agenda, and the bill to confirm the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Romania on the point of meeting state borders between Serbia and Montenegro. Come on, somebody try to explain to me what social security has to do with the state border and the points of contact with the state border. See what is called point 17 – Proposal for a law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Benelux countries on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Now let someone explain to me what the diplomatic official passports have to do with social security and explain to me the bill's proposals, as they are called, with border crossings between Romania, Hungary and Serbia. What does the Law have to do with the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation with protocol, social security, state borders and diplomatic passports, or what does it have to do with all this Corruption Act? You can only get out of this story in three ways: the first and the smartest, to pull all these points from the agenda, the second, that each minister represents his law and leads his discussion here and, thirdly, bring this almighty Kostunica as Prime Minister, because he represents all the ministries, so let him propose and explain the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7450	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7451	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I answered on the basis of Article 104 because, Mr. Albianic, you injured the dignity of the National Assembly when you said we lost some time here, I don't know how many hours you said. Mr. Zarko Obradovic explained this nicely and I will point out that MPs who participate in Parliament's work spend time, but do not waste time, Mr. Albianic. Time loses those who are not in this room and are not behind this pay phone. What do we insist on and think, or claim to be right?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7452	Do you insist on voting on it, on that injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7453	Mr. Albianic, please don't interrupt me every time, be patient, when I'm done, if you think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, give me the right measure, if you think you've got something to say, leave it to some presidency, so come in and say it right here. You can't do that, if you think you're gonna kick us out of the game, piss us off, I don't know what you're thinking, so every minute you jump in, you know, we've known each other for a long time, Mr. Albianic, it's impossible. So why do we think the Secretary of RES should be here? I will speak in another statement strictly to the Rules of Procedure, which is why it must in this case, but here, Minister Sasa Dragin is here on the third day and Mr Minister is listening carefully to what the MPs say. I'm following a man, I see that he's working, I'm following, of course on condition, I see that he writes every remark he hears from the MP. Then at the end of the debate, he'll come out and deliver his opinion, say what's good about what he heard, what he didn't hear, what the Ministry is going to do, what he can't do, etc. That is why we need a minister who knows what was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like someone to explain to me that Rasim Ljajic will explain to us why Dragan Jocic first proposed the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, and why it was withdrawn this morning. Here we have 5.10 on the stamp, allegedly the fifth one was delivered to the Assembly, and I'm telling you, our officers in our parliamentary group are sitting down until the end of working hours, on Friday we didn't get an envelope with this material. We could only meet him this morning. So, once again, ladies and gentlemen, seeing as I've overstepped time, I call upon Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, Mrs. Susan Grubjesic, Mr. Milos Aligrudic, to come out for this pay phone, to say loudly and loudly, for the sake of the public, whether they support such injuries by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether they think we're wrong and to say why we're wrong. You were incorrect, because you entered all of this without consulting the SRS. We could have made a nice deal, as we are every time constructive when it comes to any agreement, you didn't want to, well, now you have to listen to the warnings of people who know how the National Assembly works and what it says in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm sorry about Mr. Secretary Sasa Dragina, but you're here thanks to the people who otherwise voted for you and for them you, Mr. Dragin, have been sitting here for three days, not for us. And you've seen and heard that all the MPs of the SRS who spoke about the subject that you represent here spoke very professionally and without political connotations about this subject, but, behold, thanks to your party and coalition colleagues, you'll have to listen a little bit about the Rules of Procedure, perhaps you too will someday be an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7454	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, according to Business, then Petar Jojic and Goran Cvetanovic. Thank you for your patience, Mr. Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7455	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Albianic knew the situation this morning. In fact, he learned yesterday that Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who is the government's authorised representative on these agenda points, is now travelling to Lisbon. In one of the talks at the chair table and before the debate went the other way, those yesterday's events and everything that the citizens followed and whose witnesses and MPs were, he asked me, based on the remaining number of SRS MPs by the points of the agenda in the field of ecology, is it possible that in an hour that the debate would end in order to run Vuk Jeremic inside and first explain the points of the agenda, which we now have in the next package, because he must travel tomorrow. So, you were aware and all of this was premeditated, Mr. Albianic, you knew yesterday that Wolf Jeremic was gone. I, of course, did not ask where he travels, because where he goes, nothing works well for the Serbian people and for the Serbian state, which he could be proud of. Today I learned, as well as the public, that he had gone to Portugal. Mr. Albianic, since the lamp came on to you, it seems to me, only about half past eleven, Mr. Migati, you asked the secretary, I have to pass everything on to you in order to know what is on the next agenda, and the secretary told him – so these are the points of the agenda in the area of Vuk Jeremic, Rasim Ljajic and Dusan Petrovic. Then he started to pick himself up, and Vuk Jeremic wasn't there, so he came up with a better idea, how smart and intelligent he is, to run up to the president's office he's replacing now, I don't know on what basis, because the oldest one wasn't, to draw this unfortunate Djelic, who signed on behalf of the government as vice president, that it was possible by Article 194. Djelic knows nothing but to kidnap and steal. He has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have led Bozidar Djelic to inherit, based on your ignorance and ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Albianić, that this is possible under Article 194. I, now that you have repeated as a parrot on the basis of Article 194 you should otherwise say, that attitude 2, Mr Albianic, is exactly the kind of member you are referring to, they cannot be, because, in the meeting of the October 1st agenda, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already set by all points of the agenda of its authorised representative, because Article 194 of Article 2 clearly states: "The government determines the members of the Government who represent it on one single issue which is on the agenda of the National Assembly, that is, at the session of its committee." We all have laws ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7456	Miss Jovanovic, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7457	I've been quoting you the Rules of Procedure, and now it's time for you to give me three more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7458	Half a minute and it's been half a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7459	It didn't pass. It's not half of it, it's half of it, and half of it, and I don't know where you are. As far as Mr. Albianic is concerned, Article 194, you can't possibly be based on attitude 2, I really have to smile.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7460	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7461	You can only thank me if you've learned something from this, because I hope you won't repeat it and go all the way that's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7462	Thank you, I've learned. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7463	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in this state of affairs, it is necessary for the ruling coalition to declare whether we are going to continue to work on the Rules of Procedure or not, and if we are going to work on the Rules of Procedure, then this thing and this paper, which came before the MPs half an hour ago, must be withdrawn. On the other hand, if the agenda is established at the beginning of this session, the agenda also includes the proposings, and also those ministers who will represent the MPs in the National Assembly, and then cannot change that. If you look at the points of the agenda and who should explain it to the MPs, first of all, under point one, this draft law on borders was to be interpreted, interpreted and answered by MPs, first of all, the foreign minister. In this proposal, as it is said, about the point of meeting state borders – this is not known at all in the definition of any country, and especially in our practice, there are probably borders, not points. What kind of encounters are these? That's a big question mark. On the other hand, visas should be spoken of by the foreign minister. The criminal aspect should be answered either by the interior minister or by the minister of justice, and they are qualified for it. That is why there are certain ministries, where the minister should be responsible for the state of crime, corruption, corruption in certain institutions, and whether we have corruption or we have no corruption. It is impossible to put into office the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Rasim Ljajic, to come and find himself in a harmless situation, to answer questions that no one can get a valid answer. He can't, man, answer the question of how many crimes have been committed and from which area, from which criminal branches under our Criminal Code. Then, how many crimes have been committed by individuals in institutions, whether in education, whether in health care, whether in justice, whether in other institutions, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not a hunting company. Can a hunter replace a hunter in a particular place to go hunting? He can't. That is why you see, Ms Verica Radeta, the MP of the SRS, pointed out one true fact – that Minister Dragin is present, when it comes to the agenda point and the proposal for those regulations to be adopted from the field of ecology. These questions must be addressed by resolution ministers to answer the questions asked. It is an essential right of the MPs and the right of the National Assembly to ask the Government to come to representatives of the resolutions, which they lead. Therefore, I find this inappropriate, that this is not wise and that this is not wise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7464	Time. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 225 - that the MP has the right to be informed of all matters that are on the agenda. First of all, I would like to inform the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, as well as counterpart Gordana Komic, because they reacted sharply after the presentation of a respected fellow from the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Obradovic. He suggested that item 18 was withdrawn from the agenda. They reacted that they absolutely had no information that item 18 was withdrawn from the procedure. You have notice that item 18 – The agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the protocol, was given on July 31st 2007. The government of the Republic of Serbia made a notification on October 4th of the current year, even there is a mistake, to withdraw from the procedure a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation. Just because Interior Minister Dragan Jocic is absent, that's where you did the right thing when you pulled out of procedure item 18, and now this set of laws instead of five has only four draft laws. Since you have proposed Minister Rasim Ljajic, who is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, a man who is certainly not competent to talk about the conventions on corruption, about the signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Benelux countries, a man who is certainly not competent to discuss an agreement signed with the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Hungary and Romania, we believe that you should also withdraw this set of laws. And then, when conditions are obtained according to the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, such as these laws, which make the environment minister present, Dr. Sasa Dragin, who is present all the time and actively participates in all the drafts of the law, I am sure that in a constructive way we have contributed to these proposals in a more beautiful and quality way to function, these remarks should be accepted and withdrawn from the procedure of all these drafts of the law so that you can later, when the conditions are obtained and when your ministers are present, who are proposed as competent people, we should discuss them together.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7466	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry I didn't notice you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7467	Now you've admitted, Mr. Albianic, to the public that you have a big problem when you haven't noticed me. Therefore, I must now advertise to you the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and point to members I have never mentioned before. Otherwise, I must tell you, Mr Albianic, regardless of the announcement and the working group that is working on the new Rules of Procedure to prevent the Members of Parliament from appearing several times at one point, if you continue in such an ossion and incorrect manner, first of all, to treat the MPs, it cannot come out for good. I have tried many times to explain to you that this is the principle and attitude of the SRS for which the National Assembly, as the most legislative body, is the place where laws, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure should be respected. I warned you that under Article 194, the government of the Republic of Serbia, based on your proposals, could not determine Rasim Ljajic for these agenda points. You see, since you and I, as members of the parliamentary delegation last week, were in Strasbourg, it's great that she has now announced to the entire public that, on October 4th, the government decided to withdraw the agenda in 2006, so you're on the time machine, not to be able to withdraw the agenda point of which Minister Dragan Jocic is proposing. You couldn't even do that. You could only at the beginning, or when determining the agenda of the session. According to Article 90, you could have done so when deciding on an emergency procedure, to have certain points withdrawn from the agenda. However, Article 143 says the legislator has the right to withdraw the bill from the procedure until the end of the law's proposal at the National Assembly session. Has the search of the law begun, colleague Radeta, who was authorized by Minister Jocic? It's not. Therefore, you could have started the agenda item authorized by Dragan Jocic, so that at that time he would appear as an authorised promoter and withdraw that point. You could only do anything else when you set the agenda on October 1st, in accordance with Article 90. You can see we've found you a fifth or sixth procedural error. You don't know how to call sessions, you don't know how to act. Simply, you're in a situation where because you care about staying in power, what you've done to make such a scandalous, unnatural government, I've got to warn you that you're being polite and that you don't interfere with my work or that you're the chairman so that your colleague knows. So, by Article 90, you could have done it on October 1st. Today, Mr. Albianic, as much as you said to me earlier, you have no reason to continue this way until 12 o'clock tonight, make sure it can be tomorrow by noon and tomorrow by 12 o'clock, because you have no basis for continuing your session. Otherwise, if you want to withdraw the agenda, since there is no minister, not even that, no one in his place, can do it on behalf of the promoter. He's the only one who can do that point, because eventually the withdrawal could only happen on October 1st.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7468	The word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising point 104 of our Rules of Procedure. Of course, I also plead that the dignity of the National Assembly is respected. It is this debate and how it has been questioned, and I want to point out that we have three actors here who are seriously threatening the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Albianic, let's start with you. You, as chairman, cannot interrupt speakers, you cannot comment while speakers have their three minutes when advertising the Rules of Procedure and please act parliamentaryly or, let me say, to behave politely. Therefore, behave politely. On the other hand, we have a government that, for one thing, knows which way, shamelessly humiliates this parliament, bringing here ministers of general practice who are capable of everything and everything, who are half the girl half the fish, who are jugglers, pickpockets, magicians, who are here to distract and deceive us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7470	Mr. Momchilov, take care of the terms you use for the assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7471	I'm taking care of the terms right now, because, Mr. Chairman, I asked you not to interrupt me, to behave politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7472	I have to interrupt you when you say an expression that is not suitable for this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7473	Juggler? Pelivan? What's insulting, juggler and pellivan, magician? Or maybe you connected it to some people, and then you agree with my opinion, and then you think that's how we insult someone. I said - Ministers of General Practice. Mr Ljajic has proved that the minister of general practice, everything and everything he has been, and therefore, I'm just saying that this parliament cannot be insulted in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7474	Take care of how you express yourself about the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7475	You're interrupting me again. Be polite. Now you have one mental problem and I'm seriously worried about you. You, indeed, Mr. Chairman, have a mental problem and I'm afraid the problem is getting harder. Will you let me finish what I meant to say? This can't happen. We're not politicians and we don't make obstructions here. You brought the real minister here for the first time to see him, and that's Mr. Dragin. Mrs. Kolundjia, will you hang up? Chairman, can you calm this down? What are you doing, doing your job? (President: Time's up. It's not time. Since you are violating the Rules of Procedure, since you are not allowing us to speak normally, you have no moral right to honor us here that time is up. I'll get back to you. I'm going to the scene, and I'm calling again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7476	There's a word from the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic. You can't, Mr. Momchilov, so now you've been at the pay phone. What's wrong with you? Please go to your seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7477	Mr. Chairman, when you will stop this terror of yours, because it is no longer a joke, no entrenchedness, it grows to terror over the messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7478	Please define the word terror.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7479	In particular, it's above the SRS' butchers. You can't determine when anyone will report to the Rules of Procedure. You can't give the speaker a word if someone calls in the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure before you sit on that chair. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how many individual ministers are able to take seriously the function they are in, how much responsibility they have taken towards the people and the state of the ministries they are sitting in, will show as an example the answer to the parliamentary question asked by Lidija Vukicevic, the culture minister – there is a complete topic on the site, please press the button on the site. Then why do we need ministers? Let's all buy computers, 27, because there are so many ministers now. Of course, I don't count those assistants that there are 50 for each ministry, deputies that have 10-15 for each ministry, but no one, except Minister Petrovic, can count on this agenda point. No one, except for Vuk Jeremic, on these two points of the agenda, can only Kostunica. He can come, he's a father to all ministers. He could, though, be Vela Ilic, because he's also a minister of general practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7480	Mr. Markovicu, Velimir Ilic is the minister of infrastructure, so please take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7481	Is that from birth to you, Mr. Chairman, or does that catch you now?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7482	The word is given to the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here you see what the National Assembly has been thrown into.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7484	Please do not use such a term for the National Assembly. You must protect dignity, Mr. Momchilov!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7485	Here, I'll explain now. Let me explain. I need to explain why I say it's a fair. With these incursions of yours, the sawdustry and the dialogue, which you have no right to do by the Rules of Procedure, you are now creating a fairing atmosphere. Here, you see, the MPs tell you scarred in benches, they don't stick to the agenda, do they? Mrs. Kolundzhija, who is now getting angry, is that right, when she gives us a proposal to merge the dots, look at her proposal, or two proposals, are completely different from the same number, the same date. This is a picture of this congregation - neglect, negligence. I'm not saying it's an evil intention. I don't want to go that far, but such a sloppy relationship is exactly what creates a fairing atmosphere in this House. Take a look at the suggestions made by Mrs. Kolundji to combine the agenda points. You have two suggestions, one previous, one later, but the same number is listed, same date. How can he do that? And the signatures under the text are different. It's a congregation today. And you, Mr. Albianich, if you have any other perceptions, I don't mind, but you can't say that this isn't true and that we should agree on all this. I said, you are our first time, the DOS brought out a man today, who looks like a true minister and acts like a minister; a kind man, an expert who discusses it right. Now, Mr. Albianic, can't you see the fragrant difference between this gentleman who has been defending the laws in the right way here for two, three days and the difference between the circus way you want to defend these laws that are here? I'm sorry, Mr. Ljajic is the D.O.O.D.'s greatest wildcard for all sorts of things. You just used it here again as a wildcard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7486	Please, Mr. Momchilov, I've warned you more than once how you pronounce and qualify ministers?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7487	Very nice, you know, a Joker is a card that's won. Now, what bothers you with that winning card?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7488	Thank you for that positive interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7489	Watch out, Joker, if he gets it, it's something that's good. What is an insult to Minister Ljajic? He'll be overjoyed when he hears someone calling him a joker pulling DOS out of his sleeve. So don't worry about the minister. Take care of your mental status.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7490	You're out of time, Mr. Boys. You will violate the Rules of Procedure further.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7491	Take care of your mental status, that's what I most sincerely advise you, here, as a doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7492	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really do have the pleasure of congratulating Dr. Paji Momchilov on a successful job tonight. Tonight, at one hour after midnight, he, like tens of thousands of times so far, has helped a young mother bring a healthy daughter to the world, who is the granddaughter of Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I congratulate both Mr. Momchilov and Mr. Nikolic, it is truly amazing for me that he with this much energy and this kind of sacrifice, along with all the human and magnificent work he does, warns Mr. Albianic, and he does not want to listen. Mr. Albianic, you are now, probably on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, as one of the vice presidents tasked with taking care of the order, respect for the Rules of Procedure and the course of the session. I now advertise Article 93, because of the charms, because you just told me that you can't keep the MP talking about the same thing over and over again. Here, I shall advertise to you a member in a row, and I must warn you that in the first indent of Article 93, it clearly determines the course of the National Assembly and who are the participants in the session of the National Assembly. To be accompanied by co-workers Kolundzija and Comic, who served as vice president of the assembly, who also knows very well, therefore, after the opening of the search, it can be the motions of the act, each of these ministers individually. We don't mind, you heard from Mr. Todorovic. You've grouped it. Then he says, or an authorised representative of the act's group, only in the event that the group or several MPs, a group of MPs or more – because the next member of the Rules of Procedure says that the first signed explanations on behalf of the MPs of the group of proponents. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not a group. The government of the Republic of Serbia would be fine if it were a group, but it wasn't. Because the government has informed us, Mrs. Kolundjia, by obtaining each act individually, who is its authorised representative. I have to remind myself, I think it was before the end of that summer session, it happened that the government of Minister Cvetkovic authorised the law for which Mladjan Dinkic was responsible. You remember that. Then, under Article 136, a reasoned proposal from the government said that, instead of Mladjan Dinkic, Prime Minister Cvetkovic's authorised representative. It all happened on a proposal for an act before the session began. This session began on 1 October and it has its own current, according to the article. 93th and 194th have its own authorised representatives. If you're willing to do this for the remainder of the position you have, Mr. Albian, I'm just warning you, for who knows which time this morning, it's a disgrace. Back up nice and tight. I don't think Mr. Judjevic would want to take part either, there will be no one to chair the session in which you wish to violate the Rules of Procedure. You know we're right. You know you were forced to do that, that someone put you up to it. Get out of it with honor and do not let it remain recorded in congregational annals like Natasa Micic, who has done the same things, and you are now even worse because you are ahead of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7494	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radet, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7495	You see, fellow MPs, take any proposal that we have received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it writes well – the government, based on members of that and that Constitution, and based on the members of that and that Rules of Procedure, is proposing that as well. This is how the government communicates and is to communicate with the National Assembly. This kind of letter that comes in by fax, not on the government's proposal, but by fax. Natasa Jovanovic explained when the panic occurred, as she was sitting where she could follow it all. There was a panic when you realized that we would insist that there be ministers here who were announced to represent us, we don't mind, the government for all these points of the agenda to empower Mr. Sasa Dragin and to inform us of that in good time. As we talked about ecology, so we would ask Mr. Sasa Dragin and corruption and everything that's scheduled in the agenda. The government can't do it this way, or you thought you could call someone in the government, say, "Send us a fax faster, these radicals will now come out to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, so let us know that someone else, who hasn't traveled anywhere, who's here, is coming to represent the government here." Ladies and gentlemen, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't. You're most of you, you're powerful. You see, we're not most, we're not powerful, but we know, we will, we can, and we insist on the application of this Rules of Procedure. Mr. Todorovic, I have already called Mr. Aligrudic and I call again on him to come here, to stand in this place and to declare whether he supports his parliamentary group in violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is also true of Mrs. Nada Kolundzia, Suzanne Grubjesic, so if you say you are in favour of breaking the Rules of Procedure, please continue. Just one more intervention, Mr Albianic, under Rule 103 - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. All day long, with all your anxiety, because you've found yourself in an unguarded grape, you don't know what you're going to do. You'd be very happy to get out of there, that's clear to all of us, but now you have to, you've got this infamous place just today and otherwise it kind of gets to you. Okay, that's what Oliver Dulic does, leaves you there whenever something is thick and there's a need to explain and explain, and then in the appearance of the obvious anxiety of every SRS MP you interrupt in the middle of a sentence, but not under the conditions provided for in Article 103. So, Mr. Albianic, you have the right to do so, but only in the conditions provided for in this Rules of Procedure. What bothers you is when a minister or government calls it one or another, it's your intimate feelings and it's not for the National Assembly. You cannot force me to say something nice about Vojislav Kostunica and his government, when it is thanks to Vojislav Kostunica and his minority government, the paralysed work of this parliament, because they violate the law, because they violate the constitution, because he and Boris Tadic are agreeing transge-franges about public enterprises. We haven't had meetings in days, you've interrupted them for a few days, etc. And now you want to make up all of a sudden. That's impossible. You can't make up for what you missed, but you can get serious and keep working on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7496	People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7497	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, the five laws under which a united debate is conducted concern conventions that directly concern the protection of the environment and have the same objective, to prevent and reduce the adverse effects of environmental impacts. This high house has been discussing these conventions for the third day. But what it means to confirm all these conventions and what is the likelihood that they will be applied and respected, if the official authority does not respect the existing Environmental Protection Act. That applies to you, Mr. Minister, and I can't say a word about you. Protecting the natural values of air, land, forest, geological resources, plant and animal life, for this authority is the last place. Did this government provide a basic human right to live in a healthy environment? Can it warn the adverse effects of the environment caused by industrial enterprises? What is she doing to avoid having a negative impact on the environment? How to protect the endangered environment? These are all questions that this incompetent puppet power has no answers to. I come from Pancheva where citizens have been exposed to eco-terror, poisoning and silent dying for 40 years! The decades-long protests of the citizens of Panchev are only voices of the powerless that no one hears. The lies and deceptions of the poisoners last from the very beginning, at the very source, beginning with the construction of the Panchev poisoners 40 years ago and over. Therefore, the citizens of Pancheva rightly wonder why the current authority does not apply the Law on the Protection of the Environment and why, according to the Law, the Republic does not execute a rehabilitation or remediation, i.e. stopping and further degradation of the environment to levels for smooth work and living in the middle. The quality of the environment in Panchev is unbearable. Panchevo is the happiest and most polluted city on the planet Earth. The state authorities, instead of regularly, timely and fully objectively informing citizens about the state of the environment, only do so before the elections. Honorable MPs, funds and environmental charges are wasted and no one alive knows where they are going, although the way they are used is strictly regulated by law. So, Mr. Minister, I'm asking a parliamentary question - when will the budgetary inspection determine the unintended use of these funds in the municipality of Pancheva, were the fines imposed for the commercial offences and violations of the polluters "Azotari", "Petrochemia" and "Rafineria" and did any of the directors of these companies answer to the crime of environmental pollution? That is why it is in vain for our poisoners to confirm all these conventions, when the government does not adhere to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which adopted this high house. The people of Panchev are not asking for much, they are not asking for anything but to strictly apply the existing Law on the Protection of the Environment, because the responsible persons, I say to you as a longtime lawyer and practitioner, have long been in prison, and factories would not poison and quietly kill citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7498	Is anyone else answering for a word that hasn't been used by the Rules of Procedure since we've exhausted the list of speakers? Yeah. ) The word has a national envoy, Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7499	Dear People's Messengers, no one has mentioned the slopes of the Carpathians, so since I come from that region, you're only in the statement of these words, I would only briefly have if you had, to make a note. The construction of the Kladova Djerdap I dam in 1972, near the village of Kusjak, increased energy efficiency, but also caused a lot of consequences in this area. Gerdapic accumulations are extremely significant in the Danube sphere where land and land from some 600,000 square miles [600,000 sq km] are being poured into the area of the Đerdapic ecosystem. The Serbian sea, as not for no reason is called the Danube in the Djerdapa II area, to Belgrade, with great deposits and accumulations of heavy metals, changes in the fish population, the fish have disappeared, you have heard of fish, seas, sturgeons and trout, and with them the famous 'Kladovski caviar'. The fact is that the state was trying to repair the state of the Gerdap Fish Land by building an artificial nesting site in Kladovo, but it is now, without major investment by the state, almost before bankruptcy. This was the most contributed by a catastrophic decision to be taken from the "Ribar Lands" and awarded to the "Serbshum". The Minister of Ecology would have to have heard about these problems, which caused this situation, to introduce an environmental tax that would be paid to municipalities on whose territory is an ecological disaster. The special story is about forests, the area of the Đerdap National Park is located on the territory of three municipalities, Majdanpek, Kladovo and Golubac, with a total land area of 63,600 ha. There's no full protection for shaming, there's no bad noise in the National Park, there's nothing to be done about us all. With this obligation, by paying an ecological fee, many things would improve, as well as the permanent existence of the citizens of Kladov and other damaged municipalities. I wanted so much to remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7500	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7501	Dear President, honourable MPs and MPs, I sincerely thank you for an extremely constructive discussion in which you have touched with great understanding the most important issues in the field of environmental protection. Important and good questions have been raised that deserve a clear answer and determined action. Behind each answer, which I have delivered to the MP groups in writing, there will be great effort and work, because there are many problems that need to be solved, many contaminants that need to be put in order, many hectares that need to be forested and many laws adopted and implemented in order for Serbia to be a cleaner, more beautiful and healthier place for our citizens. I'd like to mention a few of the problems that have been mentioned during today's debate. National MP Radica Jocic mentioned problems caused by fires in national parks. I can assure you that when I heard about the outbreak, it was not 10 minutes past the reaction, past the competent services, so the fire departments immediately headed to the scene, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Police, I immediately called the Minister of Military, Mr. Sutanovac and asked for the help of the military, and immediately afterwards Mr. Vuk Jeremic and asked to contact all the countries in the area to provide the necessary planes to assist in the recovery of the fire, then it was on the Old Mountain. We received an offer from several countries: Germany, Greece, Austria, Italy and Russia. The decision fell on that 'Iljušin' that was in Russia, because it was in Bulgaria at the time, on the other side of the Old Mountain, means, in fact, about 100 kilometers. only away from our fire and that's why he was chosen. Once again, I would like to thank all the countries that have offered to put those fires out in a really effective way. I would just remind myself that in other countries in the Balkans, fires have also broke out, which have taken great sacrifices and caused far greater material damage. Our country owned two canaders who served these purposes, however, during the administration of Mr Milutinovic, they were sold to Greece. In addition, the question was whether in the protection zones one would be a zone where construction was forbidden, whether something would be built on the Old Mountain. I assure you nothing will be built in the national parks in the protection zones one. The environment ministry will never confirm that it responds to any requirements of this type, and due to these events, unmilkable during the summer, because of the skin, we have rebalanced our budget and about 300,000 more unpredicted for this year will be spent on shaming Serbia. It's not just the Old Mountain, it's also the Dublin and other places in the national parks that burned down. As for the issues of a letter concerning conventions that have ratified countries and whether these countries will compensate us for the damage caused by the bombing, I say these are conventions that are mainly from the United Nations and the countries that are our friends and they have also ratified those conventions, those that have not participated in any aggression against our country, and I don't think there is any connection between those two things. Mr. Colic Dragan has been very well apostrophe of the problem in Smederev. His questions were the extent of pollution and what you'd do about it. Of course, these are major problems, and an action plan was envisaged to invest $35,000 in Smederevo by the end of 2008. We asked for these deadlines to be moved, shortened and more resources to be invested in environmental protection, systematic surveillance of the entire facility in Pancheva has been carried out and the amount has been increased to $55,000 by the end of 2008. Mr. Predrag Mikic of the Sombor municipality asked a question about poaching. The hunt is in the power of the Ministry of Agriculture, we are working well with the Ministry of Agriculture and I will point out to Minister Milosavljevic all the problems the esteemed MP pointed out today. Also, MP Ivana Zecevic mentioned problems in the Title. There are major problems with the illegal deforestation of agricultural land. If you go to Novi Sad, on the highway, you'll see there's a lot of wild sand dumps and that's a big problem. Also, this is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but we will send our inspection to determine if there is any violation of those laws that we can intervene on. National MP Radovan Milovankic asked what was done on air pollution. The Law on Air Protection has been drawn up and I sincerely hope that in a very short time it will come before the National Assembly, because it is one of the key environmental laws. And Mr. Jojic, the MP and Mr. Koprivica are therefore concerned about the health of the citizens of Pančev. There's a really critical situation in Panchev. I'm going to tell you what's going on in these six months, how long this administration's been going on, it's done to fix the situation in Panchev. As for the "Rafineria", since the first question of "Rafineria" was asked, a contract was made to bring about 120,000,000 euros into the "Rafineria" for the recovery of environmental problems from today to early 2009. In order to tell you more precisely what will be done: 30,000,000 euros will be invested by the end of 2007 for the repurchase of torch gases, which is a major source of pollution; for the rehabilitation of the plant for the neutralization of worn-out lye; for the replacement of the spiral batteries in the "Rafinery"; for the separation of oil and atmospheric sewers. These are the jobs to be done by the end of this year. In 2008, a reconstruction of the car and the translucents in the Danube and the mud treatment plant will be done. Also, this year we're going to do a hammock, along with the province administration, the southern industrial zone, which will make one buffer zone towards contaminants, and I insisted, and I received assurance from the city's fathers that a environmental fund will be established. We have put forward a proposal for the statutes of this fund, precisely for reasons to determine whether all the funds that Panchevo receives in the name of ecology are intended to be spent. Also, last week's budget inspection went to Panchevo to check the allegations that last session, when I was present, someone posted. We also advocate that the state co-finances the secondary gas network. The problem of particle air pollution in Panchev is very large. Despite the fact that we have chemical pollution all year round, during the winter days, when the pressure is low, when it's cold, the citizens of Pancheva heat up on solid material and very often the percentage of particle pollution exceeds all the criteria. For this reason, it is very important to create a secondary gas network. I'm going to make a strong commitment to single out the state funds for it. That was about the biggest problem we heard today. We have heard again that there are concerns about certain MPs for ammunition that is used during NATO bombing, which contains the poored uranium. I am responsible for saying that in Serbia's territory, but without the province of Kosovo, all the missiles NATO has used, and it is related to the poored uranium, have been picked up. These are three municipalities in southern Serbia. But a very big problem is what is happening in Kosovo. We've already intervened at UNMIK on two occasions and asked to be accounted for, because nothing has been done there yet. Today and Thursday, we discussed problems affecting all the living world, regardless of species, race, gender, political and religious definitions, if we talk about humanity, on the other hand. Despite the disagreements that, as a rule, lead to bile debates in this house, I feel that during this debate, we have heard from all political parties a sincere concern about the future of nature and the living world in it. Dear People's MPs and MPs, you have shown your will to make a big step towards a more beautiful and purer Serbia, Serbia rich in natural beauty, and therefore richer in heart. We have heard from this pay phone that we need to take care not only of desertification in deserts and nature, but also of the devastation of this building. Let me express my opinion that all the desolations that we are responsible for as humanity come from the desolation within ourselves, from the desolation in our soul. Dear MPs and citizens of Serbia who follow the work of the Assembly, look around and see life around you. He's too short and worth spending on hate and anger. With a little effort you can do something nice and noble for nature, for others, for yourself. Plant a tree or don't cut it. If you see paper thrown in the street, lift it up and throw it in the bucket. Go from home on foot or on a bike, don't drive a car, don't take a bus. Thinking well and doing the same, you'll feel good on your own. Help nature or man and green the desert within you. We may not know that, but we all need someone. You don't need to look away and see someone who's having a hard time. Help today and this day there will be no deserts around us or within ourselves. Remember the smell, the wolves, the visual experience, the first snow in the winter morning, remember the first time you saw the sea on a mountain line, remember the first time you were in a forest and heard it rustling leaves. That's what nature rewards you and makes you waste in us, even when we don't deserve it. Give it to nature, people, give it to other people, reward yourself. You love Serbia and don't pollute the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7502	Thank you, Minister of Environmental Protection, Dr. Sashi Dragin. I am concluding a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the United Nations Convention in the fight against desertification in countries with heavy drought and/or desertification, particularly in Africa; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, Proposal for a Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for a law on items 15 - 20 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, according to Article 149a of Article 3 and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Before we move on to a joint single search, I remind you that by letter dated 5 October 2007, the Government has notified that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 143(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdraws from the procedure a bill confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with the Protocol (18th item of the agenda). ) pursuant to Article 149(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on Social Insurance; Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Romania on the Point of Meeting of State Borders between Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by a three-way border code and its maintenance; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Benelux States on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol under the Criminal Convention on Corruption; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law on Corruption (paragraphs 15, 16, 17, 19 and 20th agenda. ) Does the Proposer’s representative want a word? No, I don't. I'm taking a break from an hour. We'll continue at 3:15 p.m. [[After break – 15,35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Has the MP Dr Vladan Batic, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, issued an opinion on the examination of the proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, wish to explain the opinion given? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Prior to that, MP Dragan Todorovic appeared under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 226, I would like to hear here directly from the Minister, Mr Rasim Ljajic, whether he intends to remain in the debate for all points of the agenda. If Rasim Ljajic participates in all points, we will go out for this speaker in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the prepared performance. If that doesn't happen, if you were planning to make only opinions about the proposals from your portfolio, then in an obvious way, it will show that your appointment as Prime Minister was only the reason why we objected today in the Serbian Parliament and went out of the Rules of Procedure. Minister Vuk Jeremic, who was supposed to be a reporter in front of the government, is not in Belgrade. Instead of going over it in a very correct way, because in one case you showed it, I mean the government, you're here trying to get your consent to hold a debate about laws that aren't in your portfolio, and you're kind of putting yourself in a position that you shouldn't be coming to. I hope you will have the opportunity to give us in an adequate way all the explanations regarding all the bill proposals that are related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's portfolio. To be clear, I do not doubt your expertise, your education, etc., I assume that your answers will be absolutely at the level of the profession, or that you will be able to participate competently in the debate on all the proposals of the law and those that are not in your portfolio. I want the citizens of Serbia, including you, gentlemen, to show how it works incorrectly or how this coalition government works, and this - it is incorrectly pleonasm. You see, the DSS is because Minister Jocic is not here today, withdrawing from the procedure a bill whose rapporteur was supposed to be Minister Jocic. With this act, they clearly limit themselves from their coalition partners who in this way, thanks to you, Mr. Minister, because you accept it, are trying in some way to underestimate this assembly, to pass by the Rules of Procedure, past some common sense, that you are undertaking to represent the rapporteur for laws that are not in your portfolio. This is the problem this congregation faces, which is why we were forced to highlight all these problems. We wanted to hear from you in advance this promise that you will be here, in advance I will tell you that you will be exposed to questions related to all the proposals of these laws. In a way, to show both the Serbian Parliament and the citizens that this practice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should not be implemented in the future, because it is not good for any of the ministers, or for the Serbian Parliament, and also for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7505	The word is from Mr Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7506	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course, I am not a renaissance politician who understands everything and everything. I am here an authorised representative on the agenda points proposed. I'm willing to represent the agenda of my ministry's jurisdiction, but, of course, I can't deal with border issues, international agreements. It's just that it would be incorrect for me to say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7507	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think we should say another word. I thank Rasim Ljajic for the correctness and I think that after this those who decide on it, which are representatives, or heads of parliamentary groups that form the ruling coalition, should still agree and spare the assembly. If Rasim Ljajic, as he has already said, is not ready, and what is perfectly normal, to participate in the proposals of a law for which he is not competent, then how do we do it? If you can explain it, try, but I think we should listen to Rasim Ljajic, out of respect, about the proposal for his agenda. When it comes to these other points of the agenda, you give it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7509	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7510	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope it is clear to everyone now that in the morning part of this assembly's session, the most severe possible way of hurting the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured and Article 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it has tried to draw attention to the fact that we MPs of the SRS who insist on applying the Rules of Procedure, who insist on representatives of the Government who are in charge of certain points of the agenda, have been tried to present themselves as, I don't know, some of our experiences over the Rules of Procedure. And even from the bench, there was a throw – let's go out, we won't listen to this anymore, I won't call whoever said it. He knows someone who thought so. Once again, we Serbian radicals have shown and proved, first of all, that we are right, that we are always fighting only for what is based on the law. This time, it's the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Also, I would like to emphasise Mr Rasim Ljajic's very correct relationship with this House, because man, so as not to expose himself to inconveniences, and also to lead us MPs astray, has said nicely that he can represent a law that the government has temporarily informed us that he will be represented by Mr Rasim Ljajic. Other colleagues, Mr. Jocic, Mr. Dusan Petrovic, Mr. Vuk Jeremic, who is obviously the most important ruling majority, because the proposals of his laws are conditionally his, first on the list of these combined grandmothers and frogs. I repeat again what I said today, you got a lot on your mind that you tried to merge and that you voted to join this agenda, that is, these points of the agenda. Therefore, gentlemen, you must bear responsibility. As Mr. Todorovic said, we will, of course, listen to Mr. Rasim Ljajic's word, but we will continue to work on the Rules of Procedure, as Mr. Ljajic made it clear that he is not a minister for everything and everything, and I respect it. It can't be anyone. As long as he sits here, he'll have to listen to the questions of SRS MPs about affairs, about corruption, about the three-way at the state border, about everything that's on the agenda today. So you still have time to seriousise this House's work. I suggest that after Mr. Rasim Ljajic's presentation, you either withdraw the rest of the agenda or terminate the work until other ministers are present. It would be best for you to discuss the agenda of Mr. Rasim Ljajic, and the rest of the government to withdraw from the procedure, since the government can otherwise fax, as it communicated this morning – to informing that the notices were being shared here, and then half the hall stopped when they heard that we were going to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, forgot to seal that a letter had arrived from the Government at all, and then faster and better to withdraw it, so they put the stamps back on, very unseriously, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I understand that you support the government, I understand party discipline, but if it's even from democracy, it's too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7511	National MP Nada Kolundzija, according to the Rules of Procedure, president of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7512	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this objection would stand if we today had the laws proposed by the Government and which we could influence by our debate and amendments. It makes sense then that the minister sits, hears all MPs carefully, to consider some of the remarks that MPs make on the legislative project and thus to propose a legislative project and change in the joint work of the Assembly and the Government. As this is about ratification of international agreements and conventions, which the government has signed, there is no way that we, with amendments, discussions, debates or anything that affects the change of text that we have received here today. I think that today, however, we can continue this debate and there is no reason to interrupt the session of the Assembly, because the minister in charge is not sitting here. So, I respect and I really think it's okay when MPs in communication with the minister try to influence the text of the act that is before us. As this is about ratification, in some parliaments on ratifications there is not a debate in the way it is led here. We don't mind that the debate goes on and on, that MPs say what they think about it, but it's that this is an act that cannot be responded to by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7513	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague of Kolundji, you're simply wrong. It is true that the ratification of agreements and conventions can be subject to amendments, however, it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia as the authorised authority of the Serbian state is a signator of what should be ratified by Parliament, but you are wrong because these are very important things. You say some parliaments don't discuss the proposal for a convention at all. That's not true at all. First, due to the fact that some parliaments originally propose certain conventions that later come before certain international institutions, such as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in which we participated last week. Now let me ask you a hypothetical question. On the agenda of last week's session in the Council of Europe, we had a series of agreements and conventions and ratifications of resolutions, which are recommendations, but in the right sense of words, although we are a full member of the Council of Europe, are not binding on the state, i.e. I do not see how your ruling coalition could implement these resolutions and all that is already in force, which is ratified. Now the question arises – if it is as you say, that we should not ask any resolute minister, then why at all there are certain ministers for each of these conventions when it is unnecessarily necessary to discuss it in the short term of any one. Then why would Mr Ljajic say - I am competent to answer only for the area of social security and for the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro. How will we know, then, that the state of Serbia, whose parliament, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will confirm two conventions, ratify them, on corruption, will respect it consistently? How do we know if there isn't a minister, who's up to his neck involved in corruption in this country? How do we know if we can't question him and give us answers to the present, not just the highest degree of corruption that exists in one society from countries in the environment, perhaps in Europe, you know, and in the world where we are today, and how important the problem for this society is? If you think that we should be just silent observers and that what is a binding document from the moment that the National Assembly adopts it, there, somewhere, should be published in the "Official List" and that the state of Serbia does not adhere to it in the right sense of the word, then it is meaningless for us to ratify these agreements at all and to talk about anything at all. You're now saying that when it comes to international agreements, MPs should only have the role of someone who presses the "yes" button, "no" or "sustained". That's ridiculous. It's really pointless. Somewhere someone has obliged us and we have willingly agreed, and our country and our government, to sign the ratification of this agreement, that international document, and now comes before the most legislative body, and you say – take it or leave it, and we don't talk about it. Then you got yourself into your mouth. Then we asked Mr. Dragin, a minister who had a set of environmental agreements until about an hour and a half ago. You saw what he had answers to all those questions. Could we have influenced Mrs. Kolundjia, amendments to the CEFTA Agreement and Kyoto Protocol? Of course not, but we have received answers from people whose resources are in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then don't deal with the thesis, so when you have a minister ready for that resort, you say, "It's okay, and when you don't, then plant all this on Rasim Ljajic, who saved his soul and said, "I really don't know, I'm just capable of what I'm capable of, then the MPs should get involved, and now don't need you." It is unserious, Mrs. Kolundzija, for the head of a parliamentary group that is ruling in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7515	The word is made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, according to the Business, then Dragan Todorovic, and Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 149 has been violated. Rules of Procedure. I'm calling on Article 104, and I'm not going to waste the time I'm calling on all the members, this debate that's happening in the Assembly right now is a consequence. It's caused by something else. The cause is that the women and frogs are connected, which is a merger discussion of six draft laws, which have nothing to do with each other. Article 140. The Rules of Procedure say that only two cases of debate can be extremely combined: if laws are mutually conditional or if their solutions are interrelated. Not to waste time asking someone what it has to do with what they're conditional on and interlinking the Social Insurance Agreement, is an important document, which we sign with Montenegro, the borders of the tromperes, etc. That's why everything else is a consequence. Why did I call on Article 104? I have called to respond to the explanation that the head of the DS Group has given here. I think it's absolutely not true and the government is proposing this law, and Rule 149a says that confirming the ratification of international contracts is in the same way being considered in the Assembly as any other law, except that it is a unique search and we have now heard such an argument, which is humiliating to the MPs. It's pointless and maybe the government wants to discuss this debate and not have a discussion about anything, just passing through. We have a third thing, the government has one humiliating relationship with this congregation. Mr. Minister Rasim Ljajic here has been designated a representative of the government and he has made it clear to us, thank him for his correctness, and said, I am standing and explaining the bill to confirm the Social Insurance Agreement with Montenegro, and the rest is not. The government doesn't actually have an authorised representative for the other points. Now instead of getting rid of it in one way, if anything else is called in by the heads of the parliamentary groups to find some sort of deal, how do we get out of this, we're still going from mistake to error. I just want to finish what I started with. This debate is due to the responsibility of the parliamentary majority, which, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, formulates the agenda and responsibilities of the Government, which, by disrespecting the Assembly, does not refer to the way it is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7517	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not say anything new, and when you have had the opportunity to hear too many arguments about our request, that Mr Rasim Ljajic cannot be a proponent in front of the government regarding these laws, there is no need to discuss it anymore, he has confirmed it himself for this speaker, however, one other question is being asked. The question is raised by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, what about his writing where he says – in this regard I would like to inform you that for the government's representative in the National Assembly, when considering these draft laws, Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and that is not true, we should seriously imagine this fact. Why is the government playing with the National Assembly like this? As it is possible that in this set of laws, I have already asked a question about this, the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, with a protocol submitted by the government, for one single reason only: only because the minister is not here and cannot explain this proposal. It is particularly problematic for the head of a parliamentary group or the largest parliamentary group in the ruling coalition to come out and thus degrade its own MPs, because its explanation comes down to the fact that we here and have nothing else to do, but what the government has agreed to nominate. And then why should there be any debate at all and that a certain minister is there and that he's not there, why there's no difference at all. The government suggested it and adopted it and it's up to us to push the buttons and get the job done. Perhaps you in your parliamentary group are working that way, we don't mind, but you can't transfer your work to the entire assembly and to other MPs. We want to make proposals, remarks, and we are aware of the fact that things can't change. We are also aware of the fact that everything the government has adopted and proposed should not be accepted. But the fact that we can't change at all isn't a reason not to point out these things, because there's a theoretical possibility that because of the remarks that we would make the government decide not to ratify such an agreement. This proposal, which has been withdrawn, related to the Agreement with France on the return and acceptance of persons in an irregular situation, and if we would give too many explanations and explanations regarding this problem, that it is not only Serbia that needs to accept obligations, but someone should also accept obligations when it comes to Serbia. When some other citizens came to Serbia's territory and today are on Serbia's territory, why you keep bringing Serbia into a position to only fulfil EU orders, or the West. Why can't we in this debate convince both you and the government, if you want to accept this, that we're looking for some reciprocity that they accept other obligations too. These are the things that we want to point out and help the government in these discussions, because not to lie we are the opposition, but we want to help the citizens of Serbia, help Serbia, because we think that good proposals and good remarks help the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, and that it will benefit the government as well. That is why I would ask you, that you accept that such things are not only discussed, but that you think that it is absolutely unnecessarily necessary to discuss and that is your right, do not take the right to put all those remarks on the proposals that we think are bad and which are to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7519	The People's Messenger Paja Momchilov has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and after him Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure again and I will appeal to Article 104, and I have already explained here that it is not right for Mr Rasim Ljajic, neither guilty nor debtor, perhaps, and perhaps not, here there is a minister of general practice, who understands all the laws, and he has come out nicely and said that he cannot defend the other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7521	Minister of Labour and Social Security.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7522	I ask you again, do not interrupt me in my work, for yet, it is not like you, where you are located, to continuously interrupt the speakers of the opposition. We have noticed that you are doing it, and when your members from your party are behind the pay phone, then you do it, and for God's sake, it seems to us that you and how you had the chance to do it. One explanation that's pointless. In fact, Mrs. Kolundjia came out here and said we were discussing the convention. Mrs. Kolundjia, do you know what the Convention is – it belongs to soft legal instruments, from which the firm legislative regulations of each country should be developed. It is an obligation when something like this is signed and, if you have at least followed the debate on the conventions of earlier days, then you have seen that certain conventions include the possibility of changing the convention itself at the local level. Therefore, we absolutely need to discuss conventions and we need to supplement it and point to its shortcomings, because from this convention we are then building our legislation. Mrs. Kolundzhija is the same lady who signed two acts for us in two days under the same regular number, just because the dates are different. That's how you see the attitude towards the Assembly and that kind of sloppyness, negligentness and something that is inadmissible in this serious parliament. Just so I'm, like, done. When the laws on corruption are at stake and, let's say, we have confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption – you will see well, hidden, that the SRJ Assembly, at the session of the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of 26 February 2002, passed the Law on the Confirmation of the Criminal Convention on Corruption, which was formed in 1999. We will need a competent government official to explain how we are adopting something that we have already adopted again, what it is, a waste of time, which someone has said, because Serbia is a country of superfluous, as far as I know, former SRJ. Perhaps you have some conflicting opinions. This can't be done, this is unserious and you have the morale of minimal and human dignity, you would do what the representatives of the SRS suggest – to close this ugly and unpleasant situation nicely, which is just one stone in the mosaic of something that's been happening to us for a few days here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7523	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7524	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Kolundzija, 150 times, at least, Mr. Milan Markovic and Mr. Dusan Petrovic disputed behind this speaker what you defend today when the Democratic Party was in opposition during the previous period. So I ask you that the Democratic Party behaves the same way in relation to the Rules of Procedure as when it was opposition and now that it is a party that participates in the exercise of power. It will not be possible to explain to anyone that MPs do not have the right because you question Parliament's integrity, that MPs cannot argue with 'for' and 'against' to dispute the ratification of a convention which has a legal fact and which produces consequences affecting eight million inhabitants of this country. It is possible that some MPs have a completely different view of the matter and offer an argument that will deserve the attention of most colleagues and that an act is accepted or not accepted. So, I have to admit, you've disappointed me. You gave one clumsy explanation. If that's how you defend this position of today's Democratic Party and the position of the minister who here is an authorised representative, then you're in trouble. So, I urge my colleagues to carefully analyze the stenographic notes from the previous call. I can write a book about what Mr. Milan Markovic said in similar situations about the same question. I am talking about the period when the Democratic Party took part in Parliament's work, and then offended by what they said, Kostunica is dirtying Serbia's power with his policy, leaving parliament, just don't forget to raise salaries over the next two years. It is not possible, therefore, that a political party that has so many MPs has at this time the responsibility for the exercise of power, among others in Serbia, is thus treated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the rights of the MPs who come out of the Rules of Procedure. I have nothing more to say about this. Ensure normal conditions that MPs can criticise or praise any act in any assembly procedure, that they give an argument that will help others to vote 'yes' or 'no'. Otherwise, if someone really thinks it is possible for Parliament to be reduced to just the place where all these agreements that the government has already signed somewhere and finally ratified, then it is in a terrible error. If that were the case, they wouldn't even come before Parliament. Then the government would do it. Why do we always have a backup on this? Because the government in Serbia is not responsible for all parties, but for several parties and legitimately. Give us space to express our political position, to make an argument that will help to make some of this unacceptable. I'm not saying it won't be an SPS, she's voted for such acts more than once, no matter whether she's in power or the opposition, we don't have that kind of relationship with that issue, but don't argue with us the right to discuss this issue the way the Rules of Procedure has arranged. It's my remark, and I hope we keep working on this, because it really doesn't make any sense to do this anymore. Once again I ask my colleagues who sit here for the first time, take all the stenographic notes from the previous year, you will find Mr Milan Markovic and Mr Dusan Petrovic several hundred times, I am very precise about this issue in the same way. What changed with the Democratic Party that today has the opposite opinion when it has the responsibility to exercise power? Is your policy the same? Do you have the same relationship with the Rules of Procedure or is the Rules of Procedure simply one legal tool that serves you only when you exercise power? I hope no one serious in your political party has that opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7525	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the mandated representative of the SPS is MP Milan Nikolic, according to the united agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7526	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think I will now convince all MPs in this room that further debate on these united points without a representative of the Government is pointless, non-road, anti-business, against the law, against, against, against, whatever. Of course, it's against the constitution because it's not in the interest of the state. Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija tried to explain here because we do not have a business opportunity to put amendments to the proposals of this kind of law, which are, in fact, the confirmation of agreements, conventions, etc. That we shouldn't even be discussing it. That would be possible, Mrs. Kolundjia. You could have suggested that the government just deliver us a list of 100 whatever agreements the ministers have already signed, and we don't care if these agreements are in the interest of the state of Serbia and of this people or not, that only you press green, we red, and that we finish the story, that no one in this country knows what the government is, or individual representatives of the government, what they signed, on behalf of this people, probably on behalf of the citizens of Serbia or at least for the sake of Serbia's citizens. I suppose these are the motives of functioning the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying we're right? Let's just say, I'll read you from the Bill of Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. Article 20(1) speaks of amendments to this Convention and writes well – 'The amendments to this Convention may be proposed by any Party Contracting Party. (Serbia is one of the parties. ) The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe shall inform the Member States of the Council of Europe, the non-Member States which participated in the drafting of this Convention, the European Community, as well as any State which has joined or has been invited to join this Convention, in accordance with the provisions of Article 16.' So clear as a tear. Does this enable us, does this create a commitment for us, to the MPs, to discuss all this, to conclude that this may not be good for the state of Serbia, so let us tell our government, the minister who signed this, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Government, to change this convention because the state of Serbia is not responding to what you signed. So that's why we have to discuss this -- so that we MPs would say that this is in the interest of the Serbian state or not, on the one hand. On the other hand, Serbian citizens know, this is the only way. What do you think Serbian citizens read the official messenger where government regulations are published, laws? Of course they don't read. The official messenger was public, true, but for a very narrow circle of people. The official messenger is used by lawyers who need it in the business. Have you ever seen an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen, buy an official messenger instead of a newspaper and read in a tram? You're not and you won't. That's why there is a National Assembly, which is why we have insisted and provided, hopefully, the public of the work of the National Assembly and we are getting to know the citizens of Serbia about what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. I repeat, this example of Article 20 of this Convention is the crown proof that we have been right all day and that we have no conditions to discuss anything except that proposal that Mr. Rasim Ljajic can present here. As far as the SRS is concerned, we will allow Mr Rasim Ljajic to present what is related to the proposal for his law and the rest when the competent ministers arrive.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7527	I apologize to Mr Milan Nikolic. I would like to inform you that it is not authorized by these points of the agenda, but from the 21st to the 25th points of the agenda. We're continuing our work. There's been an error in the authority of the SPS, I apologize. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, before the opening of a search for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted by DSS-NS Dr Vojislav Kostunica, G 17 Plus and SPS. The word has the People's MP Stojanka Petkovic, please. Then Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7528	Dear President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, I will talk today about a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on social security and thus trying to bring it closer and explain to the viewers. Following Montenegro's independence, the need to deal with it in the area of social security offices by mutual agreement. The two-state delegations' negotiations resulted in the signing of this agreement on 17 December 2006, between Minister Slobodan Lalovic and Miodrag Radunovic. The agreement is based on widely accepted principles and standards provided for by EU Regulation 1408/71 which regulates the social security of migrant workers. This implies the principle of equal treatment between the two sides of the insurance company, the equality of Serbia-Montenegro's territory in the use and creation of rights, the addition of insurance training, etc. This Agreement does not confirm the right to grant for a period prior to its entry into force, but applies to insurance and insurance cases resulting before its entry into force. In order to establish the right to grant under this Agreement, the pension internship, which according to the legal regulations of the Contracting States, Serbia-Montenegro, was reached before its entry into force, with a special internship taken into account only if it was reached before 1.1.1965. The agreement does not apply to military insurance. The deal is concluded indefinitely, but Serbia-Montenegro can also cancel it in the current calendar year, in writing, diplomatically on the last day of that year, with no shorter than six months. This Agreement refers to the following legal regulations: pension and disability insurance, health insurance, health care and maternity care, insurance for occupational injury and occupational illness, insurance for unemployment and child allowance. According to this Agreement, the insurance obligation is determined under the legal regulations of that Contracting State in which the person is working or carrying out the activity, as is the case with respect to the fact that the employer’s seat is located in another Contracting State, except in the following cases — if the employer established in one State a Contracting Party is directed to another State, the legal regulations of the first State of the Contracting Party shall apply to him by the end of the 24th calendar month as if he is employed in his territory; if the person carrying out his own activity in one Contracting State go to another Contracting State for the purpose of temporary execution of that activity, to him, the longest until the end of the 12th calendar month, the legal regulations of the first Contracting State shall be applied to him as if he is employed in his territory; if an undertaking established in the territory of a Contracting State of a Contracting Party or permanent representation in the territory of another Contracting State, the territory of another Contracting State are referred to him or to him or to him or to the first State as a contract in which is referred to the Contracting State. For the sake of more effective implementation of this agreement as liaison bodies, the two Contracting States are determined, in Serbia, by the social security organisation and in Montenegro, by the competent ministry. Therefore, the competent authorities of the two Contracting States need a special agreement to determine how this Agreement should be applied, which shall take effect at the same time. The liaison bodies of the two Contracting States shall lay down measures for the implementation of this Agreement. The competent authorities and liaison authorities of the two Contracting States will also inform each other of any measures taken to implement the Agreement and any changes to their legal regulations concerning the application of this Agreement. Then the countries will provide mutual free legal and administrative assistance. The requirements, statements or remedies submitted to the authority, the holder or any other organisation, or the institution of one Contracting State, shall be considered as requests, declarations or legal means to the submitted body, the holder or any other organisation, or the institution of another Contracting State. Also, requests, statements or remedies, which are to be submitted to the Authority, the institution of that State, the body, the organisation or the institution of the other Contracting State, may, within the same time limit, be submitted to the authority, the organisation or the institution of the other Contracting State. This also means that public documents, certificates or documents issued by the authorities of one Contracting State for the purpose of applying this Agreement shall also be considered valid for bodies or holders of another Contracting State. The holder responsible for providing the payment under this Agreement shall fulfil his obligation by paying cash in his national currency. Thus, executive solutions in the area of social security, i.e. documents and executive decisions of the courts of a Contracting State will be recognised in another State unless the recognition is contrary to the public order of the State in which the document or decision is to be recognised. Finally, what is important to stress is that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and this law is acceptable in this respect as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7529	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this principle debate on the proposal of five laws, I will waste my time if I just list them, how much is on the agenda here, since the sixth is withdrawn from the procedure. I said my position, that it had already started out badly for the simple reason that the MP's majority, by misusing the knowledge that 126 and more MPs had combined the incompatible points of the agenda. The Agreement on Social Insurance and the Convention on Corruption, on State Borders, and so on is now to be discussed. By defining myself in what sense to bring my judgment, I will abide by two laws. The only minister who attends here, who can explain the law, which is the Law confirming the Social Security Agreement with Montenegro, I am sorry that I have the least questions for him, to at least take advantage of it this time. I think it's good that the Social Security Agreement between the two states is signed. Also, I think it's a good thing that the Assembly recently passed the Law on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship. That's something that's good. Of course, there are questions, but later on, my colleagues will ask in the discussion. I'm only interested in whether all social security issues are covered by this agreement. I'd keep your attention to the other two laws. Unfortunately, I don't have a minister in front of me who could answer me right now or he could challenge what I'm about to say here. These are the draft laws confirming the Additional Protocol with the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. I'd like to start with the reasons that are stated in the light of this law. Namely, the reasons for the adoption of the law is – confirming that protocol is the same in the Convention, with the convention already confirmed in the criminal justice area, will contribute to a more effective fight against corruption in our society and improve our country's co-operation with other countries in the fight against this phenomenon. The adoption of this law is one of the conditions in the EU accession process. I have a question here, but I hope that it will reach those ministers who can give the answer, and the question is in the following: does the adoption of these conventions or the additional protocol of states take over the obligation to implement the same, not just adoption? I think it is clear to everyone that the successful fight, first of all, against corruption is one of the factors that seems to be in the EU accession process. So not just adoption. Why would I ask that? Serbia has many papers related to the fight against corruption. I'll just mention a few. One of the most important papers is the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. Of course, with great pomp, the document was adopted, the Assembly made a decision on the adoption of the document, obliged the government to do whatever it needed to do. Now the question arises – is any of it done? I am going back to the beginning again – confirming the Convention is not only about adopting but also about taking over the obligation to implement it in my own country. When I say this, I have the following in mind, that the same decision to adopt the National Anti-Corruption Strategy has established a hundred recommendations on what should be done by the competent state authorities. We don't have an answer for any of them today, but we do have a very present corruption. The same decision required an action plan. We have no answer – whether it has been brought and how it is carried out. The same decision should have required the government to pass a law establishing an independent independent institution to deal with the implementation of the strategy. We don't have that in our society today either. However, we have a Council on Combating Corruption, which the DOS government has formed, serves only as a public story, and no one respects these views and opinions. I'll give you a few examples. A few days ago we expressed our position here, in Serbia it is not possible, when everything is divided by a party key, to be anything independent and independent. There was almost a Council of State Auditory Institutions that had nothing to do with independence and how it became a party body. The second question, the government should submit a report on how to fight corruption, and we are able to listen daily, read abuses in the area of privatisation. How many years is the question of "Sartida" and there's no answer to that question, how does a giant like "Sartid" disappear and who took part in it all? There's almost a polemic going on around C Market. A lot of government charges. Is the government going to answer that question, what's it about? I don't want to waste my time not counting any further. It's a matter of public procurement control. Who's in control? A great source of corruption! If by chance the press didn't find out what was going on in the University Directorate, none of the state's authorities would have dealt with it. Then, public works, National Investment Plan, etc. The government is inciting corruption. In what way? By dividing everything in Serbia by a party key. She shared ministries, assistants, state secretaries, etc. She's shared public enterprises in the system. This to me, you do this to you. Of course, she also shared the profits of these public enterprises, and when it is done, there is no profession, there is nothing out of professionalism, simply put, it is only a mere party interest of those who form power. Of course, it also encourages corruption. The government's biggest source of corruption is not even the principle of all these years, and this is a matter of public finances. In Serbia, public spending is almost half a gross national social product. It's a huge asset. No one knows what's going on with that. Serbia is one of the few countries that has no control over spending money. For seven years now, there has been no report that the Assembly is discussing, of course, the Assembly does not normally perform its control function, there is no audit, but has been missing for many years, reports of budgetary inspection, which is legally required by the government twice a year to deliver to the National Assembly. No audit houses should be waiting for that. Simply put, the government is obliged to submit twice a year's budget inspection report as budget funds are spent. The assembly doesn't have any reports. So, I just listed a few areas where, in the public's view, the great source of corruption and where the government didn't go into battle with it, I listed only one example, and there are many, time is limited, where the government is encouraging corruption by its actions. These are the questions, among other things, that I wanted to ask here, believing that it was not a problem in accepting, adopting the convention, the problem is that this country has to assume the obligation to implement this convention, and yet this authority is not capable. So this, as well as a strategy and a whole series of these documents, is going to be left with just one piece of paper that's been brought in and, unfortunately, it has no effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7531	National MP Tatjana Paskas has a word, then Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7532	Dear Ministers, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, i.e. the legal successor of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the point of meeting the state borders between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, the Republic of Hungary and Romania, which is marked by a three-way border mark and its maintenance. The meeting place of state borders is defined by bilateral border documents, which have their own historical trail. The meeting place is located in Banata near Banatski Arangelovo, 17 km from Novi Knezovac. The three-point point is marked by a special concrete border code, a three-sided pyramid. The very term used in the law – the meeting point is actually the paradigm of the Danube-Krish-Morish-Tisa Euroregia. The borders in this area are the place of meeting co-operation and unity. The regional co-operation of Danube-Krish-Morish-Tisa, or the DKMT Euroregion, which was founded in Segedin on 21 November 1997, took on a significant task, to organise the three-nation border area co-operation so that this region could reach the best possible position on the scene of Europe, which is then expanding and uniting. Representatives of the three countries of the political, economic and scientific domain, as well as the civil sphere, have worked together to make so far's lack of border areas of play and to turn it into advantages and opportunities. The conditions for the development of border areas lie in the co-operation and passivity of the border. The Danube-Krish-Morish-Tisa region has already made great access to many European funds and implemented several significant joint projects: 1) strategic plan; 2) study on improving the quality of drinking water and exchange of experience; the project was aimed at making a study to improve the quality of drinking water in the AP Vojvodina, the method of transferring the experience of the South Alphafeld operational programme to the Serbian side; the project was implemented by 31 May 2006, and the project budget was 55,000 euros; 3) projects implemented from this and that of the European Union, through a series of border expert exhibitions and conferences from agriculture, tourism, security policy, IT and health; the funds for Vojvodina are 100. 1,000 euros. Projects whose realization is under way are: 1. Designing groups of thematic tourist destinations in the Euroregion. The project was competed under the neighbouring Hungarian-Serbia programme. The direct objectives of the project in the tourist priorities of neighbouring territories are – developing thematic routes in the DKMT Euroregion, which are decisive elements in the region's tourist offer. 2. The Euro-regional Information Centre. The project is competing under the neighbouring Hungarian-Serbia programme. The direct objectives of the project are: the establishment of a Euroregion DKMT Information Centre, which will support the functioning of Euro-regional co-operation through the work of the news agency, multilingual media news services. 3. Forming a joint action group in the event of a flood. The total budget of the joint project is around 580,000 euros, and the planned donation for Vojvodina is 285,420 euros. As a result of the project, a mobile monitoring system has been obtained – by transferring waterway data and weather conditions will allow continuous information on the Tisa River, which intersects the Euroregion DKMT. As a complement to the monitoring system, a website will be developed that, apart from informing the public, will be used to obtain information about floods. A formed complex group will be able to operate in the area of flood defence across the euro area, especially in the defence of its population. 4. Health insurance without borders. The projected donation for Vojvodina is 44,792 euros. The direct objective of this project is to create a basic study on the territory of the Danube-Krish-Morish-Tisa region, which will fully assess the characteristics of health institutions and the possibility of co-operation between health finances in the euro area, and based on these data, a model will be developed that will be suitable for the development of a Euro-regional social security map. Vojvodina is in a more favourable position than other parts of Serbia, as it borders directly with the European Union. The membership of Hungary and Romania in the European Union puts Vojvodina in a more favourable position, as it provides better access to the European Union and its funds for the financing of joint projects. It also helps the economic development of the AP Vojvodina and its path towards harmonising relations with the European Union, which will help the Republic of Serbia to overcome the necessary conditions more quickly for full membership in the European Union. Euro-regional co-operation will become increasingly relevant, parallel to Serbia's approach to the European Union, as it will provide an opportunity for effective competition with the European Union funds. It should be noted that the budget period of the European Union from 2007 to 2013 for the neighbouring Hungary-Serbia programme provides for 50,000 euros and for the neighbouring Romania-Serbia40 programme. 000,000 euros. The Regional Secretariat for Regional and International Co-operation of the Executive Council of Vojvodina also has plans to form an industrial park on the three-way and build a road from triplex to the tripplex point of border meeting. The Danube-Krish-Morish-Tisa region can serve as a good model of cross-border regional co-operation for other areas in Serbia. The G17 Plus party supports regional co-operation, as Vojvodina and Serbia are thus strengthening their capacities, as well as competencies to join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7533	The word is by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Business, then Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7534	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I advertise breach of provisions 226 and 242. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Indeed, I think that all this is happening here at the National Assembly session is a kind of insult to the citizens of Serbia, and of course to the MPs, but, if you will, for both intelligence and common sense. We have 30 and several points of the agenda, not to argue that all this is significant, but it is completely insignificant in relation to those structural, fundamental, basic, general or, let's call them together, priority laws that this Parliament would first have to deal with. So, first, starting with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, what's written in the Constitutional Law, when will a whole set of election laws be passed? Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you distract the citizens of Serbia with the story of elections, the story of various meaningless laws and written reports, and you come here and just read them. You can't pronounce the titles of some laws. We ratify the agreement on the state border of Serbia-Montenegro, a state that has been gone for over a year and is now the most important thing in the world. Some parliamentary groups have received reports and have been singing here for hours. Serbian citizens don't know what this is about. We insult them. What about the electoral laws, the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic, with a set of laws on local elections, rural elections, elections for the City of Belgrade, with laws on defence, the military, foreign policy, all of it, with a whole set of judicial laws? There is no way that this will come on the agenda within the time limit provided for by the Constitutional Law. We're talking and wasting time talking about anything. That's one side of the medal. And since 35 lousy laws are already proposed, that's how "babs and frogs" are joined, because what does the state's borders, social security, diplomatic passports and the fight against corruption have to do with anything? Then we, like, do something, we're serious and we're seriously considering it. We insult Serbian citizens. Then there's one point that's very important, which is the fight against corruption, but not the ratification of these protocols and agreements. The government is the center of corruption, the government is the epicenter of corruption. They've divided public enterprises now, and that's why we only have Minister Ljajic here...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7535	Mr. Batic, please don't make such a flat-rate statement and finish your exposure, because it's past time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7536	So it's about the government that's the center of corruption. Mr. Albianic, as inconclusive as this is, and as far as you are not able to chair this House, I have proved by saying that I have reported under the provisions of Article 242. A Rules of Procedure, which does not exist, because this Rules of Procedure has 241 members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7537	The word has a folk MP, Miletic Mihajlovic, and then a National MP, Darko Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7538	Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are really in a position to hold a debate on topics that are almost incompatible. I don't know if there's going to be a speaker who's going to look into all five laws that are now on the agenda and that they can competently issue their own judgment or what kind of preparation should be, that this discussion should have some significance, in a positive sense, for the final adoption of all this. Of course, we have the ignoring of the National Assembly by resolute ministers, including this occasion by Mr Ljajic, who is present here. I don't know what the point of this debate is. It is common for ministers to give an opening statement at the beginning. Now that we have Ljajic here, he probably gave up, too, so now he doesn't have just one fragment here. He's probably feeling some discomfort, too. So, respected citizens, you judge what the relationship of resolute ministers is with what they do and do. My discussion will refer to two laws, for which Mr Ljajic is not in charge. It's about the laws in the area of corruption. Corruption, as a social evil, is marked by the ugliest words, and in the broad sense, it is the worst thing. In what corruption is in some other meaning, which we are dealing with, it is a relationship based on abuse of public and private sector authority, in order to gain personal benefit. This social evil or feller appears not only now in this current time, but corruption is a phenomenon that was present in Serbia much earlier, since the very beginning of the country's creation, and in the 19th century, in the Milosevic era, and also early in the 20th century, after the Balkan wars, after World War I. The corruption was also written by Archibald Rice, who characterised corruption as an evil that is present especially in intellectual circles and in government circles, which is present today and how it is present. The characteristic of corruption is that it is in direct proportion to the size of social power, or power. These two laws confirming the protocol under the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption and Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption represent an upgrade of the rules and standards already present in the international community. As a reason for putting on the agenda by emergency procedure here are given reasons. One of these arguments is that instruments confirming this protocol could be handed over during the chairmanship of the Republic of Serbia to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which would help increase our country's reputation among the members of the Council of Europe. So this looks like a bad student cheating on his teacher, or teacher, who doesn't understand it at all. This comparison of our country with a poor student, when I say our country, I mean the government, comes from the fact that our government does nothing to counter corruption, it even seems to me to run away from solving this social evil, even in its own way, in its inaction and inciting it. Instead of passing appropriate laws, instead of creating a more favourable environment for institutional control of corruption, instead of allowing for the smooth work of the Council of the Government of Serbia to combat corruption, these laws, which are really necessary, are adopted, but they are, in addition to this presented fact, a naked form which essentially changes nothing, which makes us no step towards Europe, which you are rushing only by an empty story and a prescribed homework. So, how will we, as a country signatories to this Protocol, or convention to which we are concerned, contribute to the repression of corruption on an international basis if we do not do any of this on a national or internal basis? The Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the fight against corruption serves only as a decor and as an institution that is ignored by the government. We can talk about it and get a whole set of data and arguments. The Council has repeatedly addressed the government, but the government ignores it and does not take into account its proposals. Therefore, this council stated by letter 15 reasons why the Anti-Corruption Agency Act should suffer certain changes and the Council recommended that it attends the cabinet session when this law was discussed, but, of course, they were not invited. The council requested reception from the president and vice-president of the government over a dramaticly high level of corruption in Serbia. Since there was no reception, then they came forward with a letter, or a public statement, and this can also be seen from a statement of this advice, which you certainly know about. In fact, this statement discusses speeding up corruption to the National Investment Plan. There's one big topic and one big source of corruption. Then, on the drastically high level of corruption in privatisation and corruption in the allocation of radio-television frequencies, etc. So, so I don't take the time and the third speaker from the SPS... (President: There is no more time. Finish your sentence, please. I would ask the public a question, what is it called to engage many NGOs and political parties, some media and individuals who work for big money to disintegration our national policy to preserve our national identity, our territorial integrity and national sovereignty? It is, in fact, top corruption, which has been legalized and gained the legitimacy of excellence and high democracy in the fight for democracy and human rights. This is about betraying our national interests in behalf of others. This is about the most profitable corruption that is not sanctioned and that passes past us, and corruption is sanctioned and should be sanctioned, of course, by one who does not have such a form of high treason. The SPS is, in any case, pushing against all types of corruption. It certainly advocates the adoption of such laws and the validation of such conventions that are relevant to the international plan, but primarily advocates the adoption of a law that will regulate this matter on the internal agenda, as well as the activation of all instruments of the institutions in the fight against corruption, but primarily advocates power in Serbia that is willing to face this social evil, not just declared and without sincere intention to do so, as the current government does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7539	The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Mr. Glissic, we've got two phone calls from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7540	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I report for damage to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. Otherwise, the Rules of Procedure are often used to go out of time and theme for a pay phone and to talk about anything. I'll just stick to the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I will quote Articles 3 and 4 - "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. If, even after an explanation by the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. ''A little while, Mr Batic called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, called for a violation of Article 226 and a violation of Article 242. Not only did he not act in accordance with Article 100, he found it appropriate to explain, but he did not register that this Rules of Procedure does not have 242 members, or 242 members do not exist at all. For this reason, I insist that the chairman now act in accordance with article 100 and explain, and if I do not give an explanation, I insist that it be decided on the day of the vote, both on my proposal and on Mr Batic's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7541	Thank you. Mr Batic explained the situation himself. So, MP Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7542	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, I've come to you about article 226. I wanted to ask Mr. Minister Ljajic, wasn't today your place in front of the government to talk to the people who came to demonstrate, who came to seek some of their rights, whether they were right or not, the unfortunates who arrived from Kursumli, who protested for their journals? We saw it on Sarajevo Street, on Bircan's street about thirty police cars and over a thousand police officers to the teeth of the armed. Well, according to what happened the other day in Novi Sad, not getting any further into it, I just wanted to say that it might be good to talk to these people, and not to sit here today, they pushed you to come here instead of some people who were signed on behalf of the government that they had authorized faces. I'm going to stick to these laws that we're talking about, and above all, these laws that are about corruption, about this topic that I mentioned. So, what about the satellite affair? What about the panic affair? What about the flowering affair? It's the tip of the corruption that was in this country. Perhaps if it hadn't been for this corruption, perhaps everyone who participated in the wars, and Mr Vasiljevic from the SPS would have known very well, perhaps everyone could have charged their journals. We're going over some of the affairs that are scandalous. It would have been better if Minister Milosavljevic had been there today, so he talked to those people and tried to find a solution than he went to Delta's reception and to talk about no monopoly, as did Minister Bubalo. Are we all crazy in this country, so we don't know there's a monopoly and there's a man holding a monopoly in this country? Let's do some real things. There's corruption in this country. I've listed three affairs: "satellite", "pancir" and "flowers". Everyone knows what kind of affairs these are. Where's their departure and the end? Nowhere, it doesn't exist. Come on, that way we'll be able to help those people. The fight over corruption starts from the top, starts from the government itself and starts from the affairs that will be resolved. I can't say that anyone is responsible for this, because there are no legal decisions. Let's get to them sometime. Please, try to help these people if they're right, and if they're wrong, well, don't bring thousands of cops to the teeth of the armed who are squatting and waiting for them, revolved for non-conversation, to make a mistake and then apply force to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7543	The minister is in the assembly. Thank you for understanding. He can't physically be in two places. The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7544	Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, I've advertised a violation of Article 226 and asked for explanations...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7545	The explanation will come from the authorities, from whom you asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7546	Mr. Albianic, if I were you, I would refrain from any comment, anytime, because, you know, you don't always need a man to show ignorance. He can at least be wise enough to keep his ignorance quiet. You guys keep making a circus, and you're in that circus pretending not to tell me what. Do you know what the funniest part of the circus is? Don't let yourself do that. You're in charge, Mr. Albianic, as chairman of the National Assembly. No minister. I ask, when will they be, acting in accordance with the provisions of Article 5? The constitutional law, on the agenda of the National Assembly, find those draft laws provided for by the Constitutional Law, and for which are certain deadlines prescribed? You're joking. Another question needs an answer. It cannot be discussed doctrinally and theoretically on the ratification of the anti-corruption conventions when you have one power that completely ignores, marginalises, insults, nids the Anti-Corruption Council, which itself formed. Read also the columns, and the reports and texts of Mrs. Verice Barac. See how much budgets are set for the work of the Anti-Corruption Council. Poor, miserable, miserable, ten times less than Dejan Michael has for travel expenses. So what does the story of fighting corruption have to do with it? I'm looking for an answer from the authorities, what about the affairs that this and the previous government has made. Money laundering through the HVB bank account in Segedin, "Knjiz Milos", "Yugomedia", "Keramika Kanjiža", "Satellite", "Cvećara", "Kargo center", "Meridian home", non-returning of Cypriot couples, Russian gas, Syrian oil, Czech debt, locomotives over the buty, road mafia and payment ramps. Nothing's changed. The coalition agreement – now thieves are no longer thieves, because the government falls. Like, it doesn't matter what happened, you stole a little bit, it doesn't matter, we're coalition partners now. That's no way to fight corruption! The only thing that started was something about the suitcase affair, and what I did briefly list, I'm running out of time, tomorrow I'm going to list a hundred points where the government is directly involved with the names and names of the tycoon, some of which Mr. Marash mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7547	People's MP, Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7548	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting again on the violation of Article 226, or again on this subject, it is corruption. Today we heard, through the means of information, that the Council for Corruption, founded by the Government, found that there was a monopoly in trade. We heard from Minister Bubal yesterday that there was no monopoly, and the other day we heard from Minister Milosavljevic, when he was at the Delta reception, that he came for a reason at the Delta, that he expected such a great giant to help break up the monopoly. So someone here isn't telling the truth. Whether those who say they have no monopoly or a Council on Corruption, whose job it is to deal with the issue. We definitely all know that the monopoly in Serbia exists when it comes to trade, that Serbia is located, not only when it comes to trade, in the hands of one man, it is the tip of the corruption that exists in this country. Let's deal with this question. We're going to ratify something here, of course, that we agree with it, and we need to do it, but we can't do it by keeping a close eye on everything that's going on in our country. I call on the ministers, and the one who is present here, and the other ministers who have declared themselves in the previous days, to finally declare that their common position is to help the Corruption Commission, to determine whether Miroslav Miskovic has a monopoly in this country when it comes to trade, whether we are his hostages and to see what all that is said these days, what Mr Miskovic intends soon to privatise and find himself again in his hands, and that, indeed, one man is holding Serbia as a whole. I'd like the other MPs, too, to know that you know I'm telling the truth, to get a little involved about it. Let's try to stop corruption in this country in the right way, help the Council of Corruption, you chose it, it's what it is, maybe it could be a hundred times better, as some ministers could be a hundred times better, not talking about the Prime Minister, but it's what they are, there's a Council of Corruption, to help them, to support them, and to get things out of here clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7549	The word has a folk MP Darko Glisic, then Goran Davidovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate certainly burdens that there are no resolute ministers who should defend the laws that have been passed on to the National Assembly, but also here, Mr Ljajic, although he is here, did not explain the law that he submitted to this National Assembly, so that, Mr Ljajic, you didn't have to come either. The same is sitting there or not sitting, you didn't explain the laws proposed to this assembly, and you were obliged not to talk about those ministers that aren't here today. But as long as you are here, I am convinced that you will pass on to your colleagues what we MPs are discussing, so you will also give us some answers to some of the questions that we ask, regardless of which questions will not come from the domains of this legislative proposal that you have submitted, so the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on Social Security. I would refer to the two laws, which are the last in this set, the proposal for a bill to confirm an additional protocol with the Criminal Convention on Corruption and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, which was submitted by the Government, and in the material the government's authorised representative is Dusan Petrovic. Corruption is a society's disease, which has indeed taken the form of an epidemic in Serbia today almost nothing but corruption. If you start from the very top of the government, from the Republic government, and down, and into other spheres of society, you will come to a clear conclusion that corruption is a disease that eats Serbia and rips it all over its seams. There's one in government, there's one in public enterprises, there's one in sports, estrads, culture, everywhere. In public enterprises, we now expect it to intensify, given that the government has finally divided, coalition partners have settled down. Now the ones who weren't in those positions came. Imagine what their appetites are now, when they start, Mr. Minister, in the next year they'll just watch how to calm themselves and their pals. Since I live near Kolubara Mining Base, Reik Kolubara, you can imagine the abuses there were. It would take me this whole autumn session just to tax you out what kind of manipulations happened there and what corruption happened there. Each of those, starting with the Director General, earned not one, but several life sentences for what he was doing there. When some law comes that touches the REIK "Coluber" and the ministries, above all, for energy, I will talk more and more about it. Whether these two conventions are going to change something in terms of improving and preventing corruption, I doubt it, because when you take it only on the surface to analyze it, you're going to come to the conclusion that they're just a dead letter on paper. In Article 5, the responsibility of the State. It is said: ''Every Party Party should provide in its domestic right appropriate procedures, in order to enable persons who have suffered damage as a consequence of a corrupt action carried out by its officials in the performance of their duties to seek compensation from the State or in the event that the Party Party is not a State, from its competent authorities. '"So, done by the official faces. What if the officials know about some corrupt shop and don't stop it? I hope the colleagues who asked you to represent them in this assembly gave you bill proposals, so that you can follow with us MPs, that you know what we're talking about. What if they're stopping it? I'm going to illustrate this, given that I've received dozens of letters from two companies in the Ljig municipality. One is Victory, and the other is Livnica, and in order not to read all the letters, I've drawn a few sentences that go through each of these letters. As for "Winning" – Ljig, she was bought by lawyer Jolovic's brother, Želimir Jolovic, we all know what's going on with lawyer Jolovic, because he's named as one of the boss of the bankruptcy mafia. No contractual obligation under the Act, concluded by the Privatisation Agency with the buyer, is respected. None! Letters and numbers, not one law. It expires for two years. He'll come into a situation where the customer acquires absolute rights over the company, fire these workers, hundreds of people will end up on the street, and he'll be willing to sell it out, even change the purpose or already do something to make his pocket fuller. The workers informed me by this letter that they went to all possible addresses. They went to the Privatisation Agency, went to the Secretary of State, filed hundreds of reports that their rights were not protected, that they were counting the days until the end of that two-year contract, that they could lose their jobs, because they only expect when they end up on the street. No one reacted. Absolutely no one reacted. "Livnica" is a similar case. The letters show that a certain, now acting director, Radisavljevic Milutin, called Schmidt, even under the threat of firearms forces people to give him action, to buy this company for themselves and for certain Anton Stanaj. He even came up with a text in the list of "Politicals", about the way he tried, and it happened, when they put people in the van, that one died because of the stress, and this Radisavljevic asked that the man get out of the van, to move on, to go to the Privatisation Agency, or to the place where they were supposed to put those actions, because when someone's lying, he's lying, trampling over dead people. Of course, and in this case, even though it was filed, I don't know how many applications, no one alive has responded. I now expect you to transfer Minister Petrovic to this case, i.e. to inform him and to know why, is that what comes out of this Article 5, and I have pointed out as a problem. We have state authorities here that don't prevent, they don't participate directly, they don't execute, as it says in this convention, that criminal act of corruption, but they don't stop it. For what? If anyone in the D.A.'s office got the money and if anyone's gonna benefit from it, I'm convinced they will. Could there be a connection at the Privatisation Agency, say so, Mr. Minister. There's a problem here and you're expedient in other fields, say, in the company "Strela Ub", the company's CEO is being haunted by who the devil is just because he came to the promotion of the book of Vojislav Seselj. There a local official from G17 plus came along and said – terrible, going to the promotions of the books of Vojislav Seselj, even bought it, so it's a danger to the state, to democracy and by no means know what, and there are expeditions. Here, Mrs. Radeta was on one of these promotions, she can tell you, as well as in every city in Serbia, that there are a large number of people coming here to sell out absolutely all the books, because Vojislav Seselj is a writer who needs to read, if you want to educate yourself and that you know something about the society in which you live and about the world in which we live. But he is haunted no matter what he achieves good business results and what he manages in a good way. Even when he was 90, he raised to 160 employees, he did not fire, but he had a flaw in reading the books of Vojislav Seselj and then everything came to him. They haven't been able to find anything for a year, but it doesn't matter – we're pushing him and we're climbing his back until the moment he might go or start showing affection for maybe another political option. A member of the SRS isn't, I assure you, because I'm a born Ubbian. At the very end, something else I would like you to pass on to Mr Petrovic, since I come from Kolubar County, that DS, there is Ristic, may even have been involved, actively putting pressure on him and putting together a list of the judges who were shot in the courts of the Kolubar County, from the District to the lower, in principle, these were tried by the heroes of the 'five-octo-octobar revolution'; it doesn't matter that they were at the time causing material damage and beating up public or private property, they were heroes of 'five-octobar revolution', they were not allowed to judge, and because they were opening certain criminal investigations against NATO leaders, who bombing the Kolubar district caused several people to be killed in the Colubarian district themselves, they are now threatening with your world. I just want you to pass it on to Minister Petrovic, so that no case can happen again like we did in 2000, there is no Cedomir Jovanovic here, who put in his jeep and brought in the then investigative judge, who had only two years of work experience, although the law strictly requires that he be six or seven, he has appointed him president of the District Court. Because he's good with Chad Jovanovic and he has to be the President of the District Court. I guess now that guy's got it all together, six or seven years old, to meet the legal requirements, so now you're trying to get it back. I think it's very bad, because people did their job, they judged those who did crimes – and let it be a broken window, and let it be destroying SO Valjevo or, already, some other objects that were hit by those who were in the Friday revolution. This should not be a minus for these people, but plus, because they have acted bravely and because they have tried those who have committed crimes against endangerment, therefore, security and citizens and property and people living in this country. Also, do not persecute those who have opened investigations against NATO leaders. And they were doing their job. Someone, Mr. Ljajic, killed people in this country. I know, I don't mean you directly, there are those who wish they could lift our planes and bomb us -- not to tire these American pilots, that they don't bother so much, that they don't fly out of what bases from Europe to destroy Serbia. I rely on your understanding and you have shown one correct gesture at the beginning of this session. I'm sorry that you didn't explain your law so that we wouldn't respect it, as something that's deviating from some normal congregation procedure. I expect answers to the questions I have asked, whether it will be tomorrow or at some reasonable time, but I hope that you will be correct in this regard and that you will pass on to Minister Petrovic and that I will get answers soon. Because it is necessary, not only to perform my parliamentary function, but, above all, to protect those citizens I mentioned and who work in these companies from any Kabadiahs that they aim only to fill their pockets as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7551	The word has a National MP Biljana Knezevic, and Mr Davidovic gave up, then Nikola Savic, then Zarko Obradovic, and I thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7552	We have before us a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro on social security, the Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers, Honored Ladies and People's MPs. The law comes amidst the desire of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to co-organise relations in the area of social security. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides its international position and relations with other states and international organisations. In Article 99(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled for the subsequent assembly to confirm international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. Following Montenegro's declaration of independence, there was a need for the offices to deal with Montenegro in the area of social security and an international social insurance agreement. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro was signed on 17 December 2006 and constitutes a comprehensive international agreement in the area of social security. It contains provisions on the exercise of pension, disability and health insurance rights, health care and motherhood, labour injuries and occupational diseases, unemployment and child benefit rights. This Agreement shall apply to insurance undertakings of the Contracting States. The agreement is based on the widely accepted principles and experiences of our country in this area and the standards foreseen by EU Regulation No 1408/71, which regulates the social security of migrant workers. And what does this agreement mean? It represents equal treatment of the Contracting States, that when the legal provisions of one Contracting State are applied, the nationals of another Contracting State are equal to its citizens. What does that mean, equality of territory? In order to ensure that pensions, cash benefits, child benefit and other monetary benefits, other than unemployment and unemployment benefits, can not be reduced and placed under the law of one State of the Contracting Party, taken or seized because the user has residence in the territory of another Contracting State, unless otherwise specified by this Agreement. In order to exercise rights based on sickness and motherhood, periods of insurance, completed under the legal regulations of the two Contracting States, shall be collected for the acquisition of the right to give, as well as for the determination of the duration of that grant, provided that they do not match. In order for a particular person to be entitled to health care from a Contracting State, as provided for by it, he must have a residence or residence, pursuant to Articles 8, 2, 3 and 7 and Article 9 of this Agreement, and that his condition requires urgent provision of health care, unless that person has come to that State of the Contracting Party to be treated. The right to give in kind, I mean health care and other donations, have persons located on the territory of the other Party Contracting Party for schooling and studying, and, if it is hospital treatment or giving greater value, the consent of the competent institution is required, unless it comes to emergencies. The payment in the case of motherhood shall be granted by the competent institution, according to the legal provisions it applies. If, according to the legal regulations of one State, the amount of the payment depends on the number of family members, the competent institution shall also take into account family members resident in another Contracting State. Retirement beneficiaries shall be subject to the rules of that State of the Contracting Party whose user is resident. For the purposes of obtaining, preserving and re-recognising the right to grant in cases of age, disability and death, provided that the same condition is made for the completion of the pension period, the institution of the Contracting State will take into account and the internship completed on the territory of another Contracting State, provided that those two internships do not match. Where an insurance undertaking has an internship completed on the territory of a third country, the Contracting Party will also take into account that internship if both Contracting States have concluded social security agreements with that third country. The application of Article 19 also lays down the right to grant on its own by one of the Contracting States, and on the basis of the pension standing to be taken into account under those legal provisions. Article 21 allows the use of pensions under the legal regulations of one Contracting State to not affect the right of the user to use a pension at the same time as the legal regulations of another Contracting State. This agreement also provides for certain rights based on work injuries and occupational diseases, so that the money transfers will be approved according to its legal regulations by the institution of that Contracting State whose territory has suffered a work-related injury, i.e. where the insurance company last carried out the work that could have caused this professional disease. In the event of death, provided for by the legal provisions of the two Contracting States, the legal provisions of the State of the Contracting Party in which the person who died shall apply. This Agreement provides for the re-determining of pensions established from 1 January 2002 until the date of entry into force of this Agreement and, when they are laid down by the regulations of one Contracting State, by including a pension standing completed under the regulations of another Contracting State. Re-determining pensions will take place under official duty. The exemption will be family pensions if the user has achieved this right before 1 January 2002. If under the rules of one State Contracting Party the conditions for obtaining pension rights are not met on the day on which the holder of the right of the Contracting State has first established the right to pension, the competent institution of the other Contracting State will determine the pension from the day on which the conditions for obtaining the right are met under the legal provisions which it applies. Confirmation of this agreement will solve many problems arising from the declaration of Montenegro's independence for employers, insurance companies, pensioners, so that they will simply exercise their rights in the areas of pension and health insurance, motherhood, labour injuries, professional illnesses, unemployment rights and child allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7553	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7554	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, although I appear after a debate in principle, I cannot help but mention the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In this regard, Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure states that a joint principled search is carried out on those points which are conditional on each other or which are mutually interrelated. Of course, it is clear to all of you here, and to the viewers in Serbia, the people of Serbia, that this condition is not met, but what to do is your way and style of work. Today we have six, or five points of the agenda, if you have not pulled another one. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you, if you happen to notice that I'm talking about some part of the agenda that was withdrawn in the meantime, to remind me to stick to the agenda. Since time is too short to talk about all these points, I'm going to concentrate here today and say something about one item on the agenda, and that's the law on confirming an agreement with the Benelux countries on lifting visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. In light of this law, it is said that the adoption of this law is a relief for obtaining visas for Serbian citizens, which will create assumptions that Serbia is on the white Schengen list. I'd like to stay here for a while. Gentlemen from the government, we see there is only Minister, Mr Ljajic, although at first he said it was not his theme, but I would like to stress that the holders of diplomatic and official passports have not had any major difficulties in going to EU countries and abroad. Here I would like to cast an accent on an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen of our country, to see what his chances of getting a visa for an EU country are. I can tell you right now that his chances of traveling are minimal or almost nothing. I'll support that with some examples. In fact, you all know that October is a month that traditionally organizes excursions, prom tours in the country and abroad. The White Schengen List should apply to privileged categories of population, which certainly include students and students. However, practice suggests that our students and students face insurmountable obstacles in obtaining visas for travel to EU countries. Not only do they encounter obstacles, but they also encounter the rights of humiliation in obtaining visas. It happens, I'm talking about seniors now because I'm a man of education, that, say, one or two classes of one class get visas, and the other department or two departments don't get visas. What is it, a humiliation to this category of young people? Or worse, half the students of one class get visas, and half the students don't get visas. Even worse, they somehow manage to get visas and start abroad and there from the border some of the EU countries return a complete trip or again release one or two buses and return as much. So instead of this law on diplomatic and official passports, I think this government and this country should deal with an ordinary citizen, an ordinary man. We had a similar example in the Sixth Belgrade High School, when President Tadic himself had to intervene personally to get visas for travel to Italy. As a man who has been working in education for many years, he has experience with the organisation of excursions, I fear that the example of the Sixth Belgrade High School is not and will not be alone, and as far as I've heard of such problems today, certain schools are coming along, specifically the "Svetozar Markovic" High School from Nis. So from this pay phone, I ask the parliamentary question of the Minister of Education, Mr. Loncar, and the Foreign Minister, Mr. Vuk Jeremic, what are they personally and their ministries doing to protect the humiliation of this category of young people while travelling abroad?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7555	The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, then Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7556	Fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, I think it is a great shame that we are discussing these several points in the context of a united debate, as one common item of the agenda, given that these are issues which are of absolute importance to one person. When you look at what's on the agenda, you see that there's really nothing in common, but a time of five hours that MPs will use to try to say something about these laws. You have seen in the text of this law, the representatives of the government are different people, and I think that the majority of this kind of behavior has led Mr. Ljajic, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the man who is the only one present here tonight, to an unfortunate situation that, perhaps revolted by the behaviour of his colleagues, does not say anything about a law that absolutely deserves to be mentioned and served as affirmative. I don't speak professionally. I think the law establishing the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro on social security is something that absolutely needs to be welcomed, as an attempt to fix those things between Serbia and Montenegro when it ceases to exist in the common state. I think it is very good that we in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will adopt this law, i.e. to confirm the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro, because a large number of issues will be resolved, which and how the citizens of both countries are being tangled. In fact, it is seen in the law that many issues are related to diseases, motherhood, age, disability, death, labour injuries, occupational illness, unemployment, which means a whole corpus of questions. That's something the minister was supposed to affirm. Mr. Minister, you have to get out, you don't have to listen to me, but it's up to the citizens of Serbia to come out and say something about this law, if you're not ready to talk about the laws that your colleagues had. I am saying this because I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done a good thing, as it has done with the Law on Citizenship. It is a good thing and it should be affirmed because it is good for both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Montenegro. I say once again, he corrects things done the moment that one faulty policy, to say, caused a break, or ceases to exist in the common state. Not to mention why the referendum and why an independent state, in relation to the fact that Serbia-Montenegro in the 19th and 20th centuries always helped, were always together, always doing everything possible to help each other in the different issues in which they were. I think the question of corruption almost comes to mind, the question of corruption deserves to be specifically mentioned. Here we have two laws relating to corruption. I think there's a few things I need to say about that. First of all, we have since 2000, or since 2001, so we have passed certain laws, we form committees, committees, there are certain statements, resolutions are adopted, and so on, all about fighting the state against corruption, and there are no results. We have seen that the various NGOs that are investigating, investigating, establishing the degree of corruption in Serbia, so to speak, are depressed in terms of results, because it shows that corruption in Serbia has. Unfortunately, all this work doesn't produce certain results. It is, in our opinion, for one very simple reason, that all that is adopted in terms of the law or as an international document that becomes an integral part of internal law, unfortunately, is not implemented. When something is not carried out, there is no sanctions, then of course there is a fertile ground for provoking corruption. Not to mention, and in my opinion, a very important fact, it's a state and social issue, a system of values has been completely broken down. In fact, by affirming bad things in the system of values, people are encouraged to break through, in an indirect way, corrupt actions come to property and to a social status. I'm not saying this professionally, because I think the situation in society is bad and unfortunately does not provide enough ground for fighting corruption to be effective. I mentioned that councils, commissions and other bodies are forming that are fighting corruption, and there are no results. We all know, I hope, that the state, the government of the Republic of Serbia, has formed a Council to fight corruption as a professional advisory body and that this council has been working for several years. Interested people can get acquainted with the work of the Council. There have been several publications issued through boarding schools, through joint meetings held, with representatives of other countries that affirm the fight against corruption, whether with other NGOs, and they present much in the fight against corruption. Apparently, they don't have a real co-worker for whoever formed them in the government of the Republic of Serbia. To avoid surprises, I hold in my hand a report from the Council of the Republic of Serbia on the fight against corruption, a report on the work for 2006, so I will keep this thesis, that they do not have a real associate in who formed them, confirm in what members of the Council wrote, about relations with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On page 2 they speak, given that the government passed a bill on the Agency's fight against corruption in October 2006, that the Council did not possess information on whether the government was considering the draft laws, but, according to the Council, the government did not follow the Council's recommendations. Then, when it comes to the analysis of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Law on the State Auditing Institution, the Council pointed to the shortcomings of these two laws, of course, from the point of view of fighting corruption. However, they did not receive feedback on whether the government was even considering the Council's analysis. Furthermore, when she spoke about corruption issues, the government of the Republic of Serbia refused to invite the Council to its session when discussing some issues in the area of corruption. When members of the Council agreed and publicly called on the government of the Republic of Serbia to be invited to the meeting, no invitation was received from the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Again, I have to quote because it is interesting, on page 10 of the Council, eight or nine times, that they have no information that the government has considered issues that are important for corruption issues or have not received the information requested, or simply have not been allowed to come and in a direct conversation to determine what the problem is, why the government is ignoring the Anti-Corruption Council. Now that you have the fact that the government has formed a Council, and it ignores the work of this council, ignores the suggestions of this council, ignores other activities of this council, it is possible to draw two logical conclusions – or the Council does not do what needs to be done, and it needs to be disbanded, or the people in the Council are not up to the work that is entrusted to them, so it is necessary to choose others or the Council is that foreign body, the government is doing its job or Serbia has no corruption. And there is, even though that conclusion is possible. However, as they claim corruption in Serbia, something does not make sense. It seems to me that the existence of both the Council and the Government that ignores the work of the Council does not serve well in preventing corruption in the Republic of Serbia, and some measures must be taken objectively. What measures will be taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I don't know, but we MPs of the SPS think we must raise our voice against such a situation, speak publicly about corruption cases, in order to challenge the government and other state authorities that everyone, within their powers and competences, reacts. Since 2000, there have been many cases of corruption. Of course there were in the 1990s, and unfortunately, as my colleague Mihajlovic mentioned, unlike in the 1990s, given sanctions, isolation, civil war, millions of refugees, aggression on our country, unlike what exists in people themselves, sheltered, not all, but certain, to corruption, there are some objective conditions that have led to corruption. After 2000, formally, in words, the issue should not have been the subject of the agenda or MPs. However, since 2000, there have been countless cases of corruption in different areas in Serbia. I can't, for who knows which time to skip, do this for several years, not to mention the example of privatization of Sartida, as the biggest example of corruption in Serbia. Dear MPs, citizens of Serbia, until the Serbian state does something about the privatisation of Sartida will not be in this country and in this state of Serbia one man who will be able to publicly say that corruption does not exist or that corruption is contained. I must mention, quoting the provisions, or the text of the Anti-Corruption Council, for those who don't know it, that the "Sartid" with a direct contract is sold for 23,000,000 dollars, alone "Sartid" for 21.3, thank your colleague Todorovic, and these other five companies, 1.7, which means a total of 23,000,000 dollars. The Belgrade Economic Institute estimated the value of only the invested capital of the parent company "Sartid" at 57,645. A thousand dollars, that the buyer of Sartida is the American company U.S. "Steel", that it is forgiven to assume the obligations that existed at Sartida according to third parties, to mention the sum up to as much as 1,700,000. Some data say it's $583,00,000, but a sum of $1,700,000 is also mentioned. Now, gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have cases of corruption apportionment, people are being brought in by law enforcement due to various sums, I have to mention, different types of mafia are being mentioned, and we have an example of a buyer being forgiven from $583,00,000 to $1,700,000 and nothing. The sum was forgiven to the buyer and transferred to the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which will return it. Don't make anyone think this won't be returned to those who ask for that money. It will come back from the Republic of Serbia's budget and will return across the back of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they will have to pay sooner or later. There are a lot of questions about the sale of Sartida which have remained open throughout this period, from that sale to this day. How is it possible for this one case of sardid's being forced into bankruptcy to be excluded from the jurisdiction of one economic court and transferred to another economic court? How it is possible to make several decisions within a few days or during one day which were relevant for the resolution of the fate of Sartida. How is it possible that the leaders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have no intention of calling anyone names, but if anyone is interested, they can read in this report of the Anti-Corruption Council who is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am talking about the Government in 2003, so that there is no doubt about who it refers to, and what it does to be sold by a direct contract. It is interesting to note, since other documents related to the sale of "Sartida", there is one document that confirms that there were many suspicious things, so it is mentioned that our ambassador to America, Mr. Ivan Vujačić, told US officials "Sartid" bought American U.S. "Steel" for 33,000,000 dollars. It's not 23,000,000 dollars now, of which 23,000,000 in cash, six million in commissions, transaction fees, and four million in employee care. Some US media reported this statement by the ambassadors of the SCG state union. She's never publicly denied, she's not disproved and she's standing like that. But one logical question is asked – what is the job and what is the sum of this total job to get a commission of $600,000, because the author of this text, quoted by Mr. Ambassador, says: the bank fee for paying is over $10,000 dollars or $16,000. So this is about a sum of over $500,000 to get a commission of $600,000. This issue of "Sartida" is something that absolutely leaves one bad taste in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and says that corruption is there, and that the state is not yet able to resolve the issue of corruption. When Sartid was sold, it is necessary to say, other interested customers who have been publicly protesting also appeared. On the German side, their economy minister and then the German ambassador to Serbia, Mr. Leo Berger, reacted, but in silence, far out of the public eye, reached some agreement with the Germans, what will be gained as compensation, not to raise the public issue of privatisation of Sartida further. It is undeniable that the case of "Sartida" so far is the biggest privatisation scandal in our country, and that the case is not lonely, says the Council of the Republic of Serbia's 2006 anti-corruption report, when it says that from the presentations of citizens sent to the Council of the Privatisation, it is incontestably holding first place and that 115 plays are related to the privatisation. The question of "Sartida" is something that must be resolved sooner or later, or what can happen so far, that the Council is presenting this information, some of us MPs are saying this, the prosecution is silent, there is not enough evidence, like the Hague Tribunal when our country was bombed in 1999. Everything is transparent, everything can be seen, only those who need to respond to it have no knowledge, nor can they collect direct evidence. This book mentions a set of evidence or things that can serve as evidence and can serve as the basis for a certain procedure. In addition to Sartida, the issue of public procurement must be mentioned. The past years have been a very large number of procurements that have been done in such a way that they have absolutely left doubt that it was corruption. I have to mention, a few years ago, you know, there was a commission that was set up to deal with public procurement and that then there were about 800 complaints. It's a public procurement tender. There were about 800 complaints and none were considered during that period. Also, I have to mention, what the representatives of the Anti-Corruption Council mention, that there is no control of money spending at all levels, from state level to local level, no one knows how money is spent. Otherwise, it is not unknown that many local self-governments have penetrated from afar those fixed funds, committed themselves, etc., and what money is spent on, is only a particular issue. Many times, various MPs from different parliamentary groups have indicated to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for example, that one minister determines a municipality or event a huge amount of money, according to only one known criterion, and always has an appropriate explanation. To finish, corruption in Serbia is undeniable. It is good for us to bring, to accept these international conventions and recommendations, but the experience so far shows, at least as we MPs appreciate, that accepting these international documents, conventions and recommendations, unfortunately, remains just a dead letter on paper. Why? It's obvious that time is being bought here until the privatisation process is over, until all that property becomes part of the private, those who over the past few years have filled their pockets fatly, and then there will be no way to do anything about it, because look... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Radovic.) )... I'm done, laws are always passed, and the results are gone. At the very end, I am absolutely convinced, as much as we vote for such laws, all of us, the results will not be, because there are two parallel worlds in this Serbia. One world in which representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia live, a world of good wages and a comfortable life, and another world in which most ordinary citizens live, who are very difficult and who find the only cure for their souls in the fact that they can address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or MPs, to try to indicate the anomalies that should be prevented if Serbia wants to be better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7557	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing the motions of several laws. I will refer to the Bill on Confirmation of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, with the proposal to adopt, on the basis of Article 161, an emergency procedure. I ask the question to Mr Rasim Ljajic, because I am sure, regardless of what does not deal with this subject, that he is extremely competent, because he has been in the DOS government since 2000, ever since the DOS came to power, and the fact is that from that moment on, Serbia has almost sold out everything it has had and the fact is that huge money has gone into private pockets in sales. When I say that Rasim Ljajic is well aware of this, I say it in an affirmative sense, because for Mr Ljajic for the past seven years there is absolutely no single story of being involved in any job or shop that would question his involvement in any affair, so he is completely clean on this matter and can answer without any problems, because he directly had opportunities and insight into everything that was going on. Approximately 2,600,000 euros have been sold in Serbia so far, according to the Privatisation Agency. If you take that mandatory fee, which was adopted, of 5%, they probably divided it by half, I tell you immediately, that's common and you take some usual 10%, among other things, you know best among you how by nickname you recognize yourself – Mr 5%, Mr 10%, etc., that, among other things, and nicknames, it turns out that only in this privatisation process is at least 12 to 13% of this amount gone to individuals or groups who, when you sell the property of the Republic of Serbia, put it in their pocket. If you take that everything with banks and other financial institutions has not been completed yet, that value will be around 4.500,000 euros, then Serbian citizens come to know why you are struggling so hard to stay in power for some time, so this part of your coalition reads here about a variety of things, but you are not setting up or not giving explanations to Serbian citizens what is the case with the current affairs in privatisation in Serbia. You think it's over, it's done, it's done, we're moving on until we're done with this. I remind you he's a member of the 9th. The Convention provides for the State to ensure that any contract or its provision that allows corruption is declared void and invalid, as well as the possibility of addressing the court in the event that consent is questioned by the action of corruption. I'm not going to quote "Sartid" here, because my predecessor already said in detail about one of the biggest robberies ever committed in our country, that it was sold for 21,300,000 euros, that the commitments of the states that took over a billion euros are safe and we're just discovering what all states have taken on as a commitment to "Sartid". And you all know it well. You don't need to hide and stick your head in the sand. I am merely saying what is stated in the means of public information that perhaps, among other things, because of Sartid, the president of the government, Zoran Djindjic, lost his life.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7559	Mr. Todorovic, please, let's not do that sort of thing at the assembly pay phone. Thank you and continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7560	I'd like to remind you of some of the affairs that happened when DOS came to power. You know that former Transport Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic was arrested on November 23rd 2004 and released after one day, be careful, after one day, and the criminal report was filed for stealing state money from Belgrade Airport, which is estimated at more than 18,000,000 euros. At that time, ficuses were bought at a price of 43,000 dinars. Regular coffee spoons are paid for 850 dinars. Do you see the situation of the robbery, which began with DOS coming to power? Also, I'd like to remind you of the start of asphalting highways and roads in Serbia. You know that on that occasion, as Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic himself, I hope you remember that, Mr. Ljajic, in the Serbian Parliament, said that Mr. Kume won the bidding, that is, his company "Difens Road", although it is now mentioned in the newspaper that the owners of the company were, among other things, Goran Vesic, then senior official of DS and Beba Popovic, director of the Republic of Serbia's Communications Bureau. Look out, these are very close associates of Zoran Djindjic. When Vojislav Seselj asked the question, how could a man designated as one of the leaders of the Surcin criminal group get jobs worth more than 10,000 euros to pave the way for Serbia, then-Government President Zoran Djindjic came out and said he got it legally, completely, and won the bidding, the competition and that there were no problems. However, then it turned out that, among other things, the asphalting machines were imported without customs duty, that imports were allowed without customs duties. When Vojislav Seselj asked if it would be possible for Al Capone to get a job from the US State in a bid or tender, you then went over it and then practically opened a chain of crime and robbery of Serbia. Let me remind you, too, you know that well, you're trying to forget it with all your might, but our task is to remind you, because this convention obliges you to prevent these things. Among other things, if there were any conditions, you would never have, our country could never in this situation sign this convention, such as obligations for the state to meet certain standards for joining the European Union, and based on all this, you would not have been able to sign this Convention in 100 years. Let me remind you, the case of the lack of Kolesar and Zoran Janjusevic. I hope you haven't forgotten that, and you're happy to remember that on that occasion, it was discovered that Nemanja Kolesar owns over 50 apartments, that she owns an extremely large amount of money. You remember his explanation that he got it from dad and mom, because they work in Moscow, so when they calculated they had to have about 1260 years or 1261 years, and it doesn't matter at all, to make that kind of money. Let me remind you, Nemanja Kolesar was head of the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic. I know you're going to say that he wasn't a member of the DS, but it seems that qualifications for such places was something else, not just DS membership. Let me remind you of Zoran Janjusevic, who was involved, along with Nemanja Kolesar, because it was found, in fact, that the money had not arrived from Moscow, but that the money had arrived from Seattle and some other exotic islands. And to this day nothing has been done about it; that the dwellings that were bought in the name of "No Kolesar" are not his, that's true, but in his name, that they produced a big problem and that it had to come to some, I'm not going to say intra-party reckonings, but there was a problem, to get some things out in the open. Let me remind you of the energy mafia. You have had the opportunity to hear on several occasions from representatives of the SRS, who are persistently trying to place a report by the president of the Assembly of the Energy Mafia Committee. Just to remind you that it's the Committee of Auditors. If you're counting on it now, maybe I was wrong in the numbers, so now you want to synchronise my reports. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] I agree that maybe it wasn't the most accurate, but I'm talking about the data I could have gotten. Looks like someone's nervous or he's having a hard time. If he's nervous, he's got medication, if he's having a hard time, he can also resort to certain means that will make it easier for him to submit this exact data I'm taking from the pay phone. The poll found that Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic's companies provided an anti-law benefit of $13,000,000, allowing them to do so, damaged the country's total by 143.516.395 dinars. It's thought to be just the tip of the iceberg. How do you plan to sign this convention and go over all these things that have happened since 2000? You remember the Popovac affair. The head of the board of directors Zoran Djindjic, Nemanja Kolesar, Zoran Janjusevic, has been sold, and yet again, I have no definitive data, but one day it will come in line, because the will has not yet been read, although Zoran Djindjic's mother, through the means of public information, is asking to be informed of the will. I guess that's her right, that she had to and should have been introduced. I'm guessing from that will some things will be learned about all the previous cases. I also remind you of the suitcase affair, although you all know exactly who it's about. In January 2006, a deputy governor, Dejan Simic, was arrested when he received a 100,000-euro suitcase in his apartment. He went to prison and after a while, which is a perfectly common practice, he was released. After a while, he became a counselor. To tell you the truth, with 100,000 euros, he couldn't move forward. If it were millions, it would have already been understood, it would have been more of a place. No, the ministers are a lot harder on that. He only came to the counselor, but now he's working at a bank. I'm just surprised the banks are receiving people with a criminal past. Usually, banking officials, in normal states, in normal banks, are subject to strict rules, and all those who fail to comply with the law or the bank's regulations are fired. This is what you had the opportunity to hear when Mr. Jelasic was proposed governor, that he was fired from Deutsche Bank because of some malversions he did there, because it is a serious bank and it does not allow such a thing to be done. Let me remind you that so far it has not been explained that 88,200,000 euros have been taken from Serbian citizens, because a decision has been made to sell 19.5% of the Hemofarm stock for 225,000 dinars or 3,750,000 euros. Today, this package is worth around 92,000,000 euros. My people, what would they say, is that possible?- I'm sorry. "Twenty-five times the actual value. Someone had to take the money. It wasn't because someone didn't know, it was because he took a commission, just because he knew. That's why I'm paying attention, because you know it too well, and that unless you adopt conventions, you have to work on it, which means that the state authorities, who are in charge, are going to do their job. Here's an easy example of how you're going to show that you're fighting both corruption and crime. Bozidar Djelic, current Deputy Prime Minister, remembers him, comes with two plastic bags, goes to his aunt's apartment... (President: Mr. Todorovic...) )......................................................................................................... Well, maybe three, I didn't count, but no matter how many bags he came in, there wasn't any money in them. (President: Mr. Todorovic, 18.00 hours, that's what I wanted to tell you. You can finish your thought. ) Therefore, it is very simple here, this is what I suggested with Mr Jelasic, to determine at Bozidar Djelic how he came up with 10,850,000 euros in shares in the Meridian Bank. Gentlemen, you are well aware that in 2001 a law was passed in the Federal Assembly, although you put it off for six months, and we asked the opposition that after eight days, that each transaction greater than 20,000 then marks, or 10,000 euros, must be recorded. Unfortunately for you, economic experts know that, I'm just informed that after what happened on September 11th in New York, just for tracking money flows all over the world, whether you want it or not, all transactions greater than 10,000 euros are recorded and everything is known, except that they won't reveal you, not because they love you, what they're interested in, that they would protect our country. I'm done with this. Prove that Bozidar Djelic will go first to DS members and then to Parliament in a very simple way to say that he earned 10,850,000 euros. He says he was an excellent expert, educated on the side. Please, such an expert, such an economic gromat, so do you think those in the West would let him go? They take everything from this country and attract it to themselves, and Djelic is released?- I'm sorry. How is that possible?- I'm sorry. How is that possible?- I'm sorry. It's possible because it's under the circumstances... (President: Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. )......................................................................................................... He knew Serbian, so he was taken to Chubis, so, no, you're rolling... (President: Mr. Todorovic... )......................................................................................................... For one thing, you're champions of corruption, crime... (President:...) It's over, no more transmissions, no more discussions, please. Tomorrow... )......................................................................................................... which marked your authority, but slowly, you adopt this convention. Based on this convention, you will have to submit your accounts, and when you pass the accounts, it is known, the accounts are passed and then spend some time on the state spending, many, unfortunately, 40 years for all that they have done to Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-09-0.u7561	Please, Mr. Gabrielovich, no more Parliament, no more transmissions, please, just one moment. Mr. Todorovic, you have to answer my question, did you speak as deputy head of the parliamentary group or are you using the time of the SRS? Thank you. I've warned you several times, Mr. Todorovic, to keep an eye on how you discuss it. You disrespected me. I don't think that's correct. We're finishing today's work. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. If you want to do business, Mr. Gavrilovich, you'll get your word tomorrow at 10:00. Please, we can't work anymore. That's enough for today. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 members of Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Jelena Markovic, Marko Djurisic, Dusan Bajatovic, Vesna Pesic and Elvira Kovac. We move to a joint single search of 15, 16, 17, 19 and 20th points of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE CONCERNATION OF THE SERBIA AND RUMUNITY OF THE SECTORS AND RUMUNITY ON THE COUNTRY MEETING OF THE COUNTRY AND RUMUNION OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COUNTRY AND SCHOOLS BENELUKS
