ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7329	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 119 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Markovic, Marko Djurisic, Dusan Bajatovic and Riza Halimi. We are moving to a joint single search of the 10-14th agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of United Nations on Combating Disertification in the Lands of Heavy Drought and/or Disertification, especially in AFRICA, ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENT OF THE LIFE FLORE AND FUNE AND THE CROSS CONTECTION, PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION OF CARPATS, CONSERVATION OF THE EUROPEAN FUNE AND FUNE AND TERMINAL STATIES AND CONSERVATION OF THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE MIGRATORY SPECIES OF CURAL SPECIES BEFORE WE CONTINUE OF THE EUROPEAN FUNCESSION OF THE COURS, BY THE PURPORTAL MEETAL MEETAL MEMBERE-TALIANE-TALIANE. Here you go. It's not that order, but let's be collegiate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7330	In accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please, after the meeting of the Committee on Gender Equality, which was held on 3 October, at which the decision was made to refer the request to the Director-General of RTS, Aleksandr Tijanic, to resign and request from the Management Board of RTS to relieve him from the duties of the Director-General if he does not resign, to the immoral, dishonest and unfair public appearance of individual members of the DSS and New Serbia Committee, Zorica Kovacevic and Milice Vojić-Marković, who spoke on behalf of her party colleague Biljana Knezevic, was in the most harsh manner, in violation of the reputation and dignity of the Committee on Gender Equality, and thus the National Assembly. Also threatened is the moral integrity of members of the Committee on Gender Equality. The members of the Committee, mentioned at a session on 3 October, voted in favour of the removal of RTS director Aleksandr Tijanic. The next day, addressing the media, in the most harsh way, they insulted the other members of the Committee by claiming to have deceived the public. Without any shame, they said the absolute untruth that the request for Tijanic's replacement was not voted at all at the session, although the sessions were attended by numerous media, although the entire session was followed by several cameras, although the media reported precisely and correctly on what was happening at the Committee's session the next day. Therefore, I ask the President of the National Assembly to declare this scandalous procedure by Zorica Kovacevic, Milice Vojić-Markovic and Biljana Knezevic, as well as to protect the reputation and dignity of the Committee on Gender Equality and the National Assembly. The material from the session of October 3rd will be delivered to the president of the Assembly and the newspaper articles that I mentioned, and will receive material for the session, which will be held at 10:30 p.m., at which this will be discussed. Also, another aspect of the whole story that has questioned the reputation of the Committee on Gender Equality is the trendy and skillful placement in the public of the wrong context that has initiated and led to the request for the removal of the Director of Public Service, Aleksandar Tijanic, so once again, for the sake of the truth. Not some women there have made the decision to replace Aleksandar Tijanic because he is playing a show about some weddings, in which the groom beats his wife, but the request and initiative came due to Mr Tijanic's reaction to the conviction and criticism addressed to promote violence against women. Mr. Tijanic did not take the criticism addressed seriously. The first thing he did was, he replaced the thesis, identified his political opponents, qualified the criticism as a political attack, accurately identified political opponents with whom he was going into action, which is: LDP, part of the radicals and part of the Socialists. So, Mr Tijanic then insulted MPs who, according to him, "made the wrong conclusions because of poor dioptria". He only eventually began to deal with criticism in a diabolical way, in order to qualify himself as a teacher, who "48 hours of marriage" – "retired a bully". Another important thing, and this is that some media are very tendingly pursuing the topic that the goal of this whole story was to keep a very important problem in our society – violence against women and children. That's not true. This was an indication of how this very complex and delicate problem should be treated, not in the show of fun character, but should be processed in serious emissions, certainly with documentary material, with analysis of healthcare professionals, psychologists, sociologists, etc., and not that Mr. Tijanic is named as an educator, sociologist, who retrains violencers in public service shows. Thank you. That's how much I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7331	Thank you. The word of the Rules of Procedure has been given by the People's MP, Slobodan Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7332	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported in connection with members 225 and 226. I wanted to ask the Rules of Procedure some questions, first of all, Minister Sutanovac and Minister Jocic. I am a Novosadian and I know here some MPs from the minority of all political parties who are also Novosadians. Some were at yesterday's anti-fascist protest in Novi Sad, some were not. I'd like to ask a question to Mr. Sutanovac, where did the National Machine, a fascist organization in the House of the Army come from? Is it subsequently because a few years ago, the Face was founded in the House of the Army, and the National Machine was waiting for a peaceful protest of the citizens of the House of the Army? In today's "Dnevnik" you have a statement from a man who leads the National Machine, who questions journalists before the arrest, whether they are afraid, answers – I am not afraid, I am under the protection of the Sutanovac. I am deeply convinced that I am Minister Sutanovac does not give that protection to Mr Davidovic, but I would like him to respond – where Davidovic can say such a thing. I'd like the Shooter to make a statement about it. The second question is for Mr. Jocic. Yesterday, Novi Sad was under siege by thousands of police officers who were trying to avoid a conflict. However, in a peaceful procession that went to Kai's raid victims, to place the wreaths where people were killed in 1942 by the Fascists, their followers led by the National Machine of the House of the Army set off with shouts and stones to attack the participants of peaceful protests. The police weren't on the side they were supposed to be on, they were standing outside the facility and they let the National Machine run the fence and cause a conflict, probably for that reason to introduce us as extremists, regardless of what our protest was absolutely peaceful. 20 years ago, Milosevic brought foreshadowed thugs to Novi Sad to destroy power, under Kosovo's defences. Today under the defence of Kosovo, or yesterday, the National Machine attacked citizens of Novi Sad. Fortunately, the citizens came out, thousands of Novosadians were to defend, not only Novi Sad, but the whole country from this phenomenon of fascism. If this is happening under the auspices of the state, I would like to hear the answers, because in the port of the Assembly Church, Iriney, who is bothered by the "Cobasicada" in Turkey, who is disturbed by the "Dragon's Children's Games" in Novi Sad and does not allow themselves to be held in front of the Government's court, let the "Face" organization from that same port on the speeches by Anna Frankel from the Jewish community exclaims messages and sings – "Preparate the Chetniks" and other songs to scare the citizens. I'm really asking if the institutions of this state are behind this fascist protest and the attacks on anti-fascist demonstrations, because, I repeat, the Face was in the port of the Orthodox Church, the National Machine was in the House of the Army, the police looked at it peacefully until the stones flew and the blood was spilled.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7333	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, then Mr Milos Aligrudic, then Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7334	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure for what the Chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Christmas-Talian, has brought here, and also for the accompanying material for the agenda of the Committee of Gender Equality which has arrived to the members of that Committee, since it reminds me very much of the eighth session, and I would not like to end up like those of the Eighth Sessions, so I will not go to that Committee. I would like to say this: I have been said to be one of those who have compromised the moral integrity of the Committee. It is very interesting that in the material that has arrived here, the agenda and the record do not correspond to the fact that the Committee then took place. I also have to say what I said then, I see it not in the record, the Committee is not competent to even appoint directors, no one, and especially RTS, and especially the Committee is not in charge of defending the moral character and the work of anyone, and here Mrs. Christmas-Talian said that we are in charge of defending the coalition, as she said here, the radicals, the socialist and the LDP. The Committee's reputation has been compromised and presented as a set of women who have no idea what they're talking about, and I call for an interview of two members of that committee that was on the Dnevnik in two, three October of this year, when members were presented as having no idea what they were talking about, I'm not saying whether they said it or not, it seemed that way. So that puts the Committee's reputation at risk. That committee did extremely well, extremely correct things. If we represent him as a congregation committee tasked with defending anyone's character and work, he is a problem for the Committee's work. I wish I could keep going, and those who have a desire to get out can say later. The reputation has also been marred by the fact that the Committee has been used for a political heist that has nothing to do with what is a problem, which is violence. We want to deal with violence as a topic, we want to show what violence is, we want to work on this subject, we want to publicly mark it, but it has nothing to do with what it wants to be presented, because as it does to no one, especially the members of the Committee who are so committed to this problem, the Big Brother-type shows, that there we don't replace editors and directors, that we don't replace editors and directors of the "I Change Woman" show, etc. We don't have jurisdiction. I have the right to say, as I've experienced the Committee, that's what I said. On the other hand, it's not my personal experience. Five members of the Committee have experienced exactly what we talked about here. I claim that this, as the record has been made, is not the real state of affairs as the session was conducted, nor was it procedurally correct, and especially not in our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7335	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS-NS parliamentary group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7336	I wouldn't have reported it if it hadn't been for Mr. Maraš's exposure and Mr. Maraš's exposure was the reason for the reaction, instead of the press or the DSS press conference, where it is, we have here, and in order to defend the dignity of the MPs of this house, all in accordance with the provisions of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So, Mrs. Radeta, please, if you don't throw yourself out of place, you'll get a chance to come out for this pay phone and say what you want. What we cannot accept is that democracy is called "the strategy of the stick". So it's not just something bad that in an organization's programme, registered or not registered, it calls for illegal things that are not in accordance with the Constitution, but also on the methods that apply to the implementation of the political programme. Imagine an association of citizens, a political organization that has exclusively in its flower planting program. But if their method of work is such that, as they plant pink flowers, in order to do so, they break down a couple of our fellow citizens' heads, then it is certainly necessary to ban and condemn the work of such a political group or such a social group. It's something that's forbidden. I'll remind you what we're facing here today. We are faced with the same mechanism of action that the people and the world could see in the twenties of the last century, when it comes to Italy, later and Germany, when a group, one goal, one target, was identified in social portraits, one target, which was responsible for people having the right, by their vision, to go out on the street, take the poles and, in the name of the protection of society from that monster, negative phenomena and bogeys, break their heads. So it doesn't matter what's in LSD and LDP. It is important how these political parties are treated in the streets of our cities and what they are calling for. Everyone knows that LSD invited people to take the poles and stones into their hands and deal with those they targeted as social evil and danger. That at this point we understand each other well, anyone who propagates the ideas of Nazism or fascism in this society must be animated. So not only is it publicly called by anyone who wants to protect democracy in society, but also the state authorities have an obligation to prevent such phenomena in the root in every way. The way the police reacted yesterday was in place and the level of the task, the conflict of larger scales was prevented and the small, minor members were arrested, but the root could be dangerous, social groups, given their rhetoric and what they represent. That's how he deals with such people everywhere in the modern democratic world. But there's something else here. You could hear these days from LSD leader Nenada Chanka, as he goes with an extremely dangerous thesis, he says – a National Machine that wants to march through one of our big cities, which is Novi Sad, has appeared, thus jeopardising the democratic assets of this society, which I would agree with. However, he says something else, that a wider social organisation stands behind the National Machine, a wider social group, and he identified it as the DSS and prime minister of the country's party, Vojislav Kostunica. He says they organised the National Machine and similar social groups, so that, fighting them allegedly, that they organised them, could be easier to eliminate their political opponents. Gentlemen, this argument is a clear argument in principle – keep you a thief. Those who organise these political groups are the same ones who went to protest against these groups, ready to use poles and stones, because it is, in fact, the way that a targeted phenomenon, regardless of its degree of danger in society, is transmitted to other social groups, so that after that, no one is certain anymore. Simply, after that, no one in this home can be sure that they will no longer be identified as Nazis or fascists. This is exactly the methodology that Adolf Hitler served in the 20s and 30s of the last century, when it targeted one group, communists, and later Jews, who, according to it, represented social danger and bogeyman, was first and foremost considering and propagating that there was not enough state action against these inadmissible groups, the first himself used poles, rocks and other types of cold, and later firearms to deal with what was a fundamental social danger. Then, there was no end to targeting, there was no end in identifying those who could be related or can be brought in the most direct way in connection with those groups that form the basis for fear of such a kind of social danger. So what was done here in its essence, in the methodology of fieldwork, is no different from the way groups tend to react to Nazi or fascist ideology. What I can tell you with certainty, after everything we experienced yesterday, especially after the LSD leader, Nenada Canka, said in a show last night that was on the national frequency, which is that there is no difference between that minor group, dangerous by the idea, but minor by the number of members, and this group, unfortunately, sitting today in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, which is registered as a political party. Because, regardless of what they are propagating, these conditions for the ban on labour, which I sincerely hope will come when the Constitutional Court is formed, do not have to be cumulatively met, is enough to meet only one – pink flowers and beatings. The beatings are enough. Therefore, Nenad Canak and LSD and those who help him in this earnestly are, in fact, extremists and they are the National Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7337	Mr. Aligrudić, I do not know whether you have deliberately or accidentally sinned in the name of LSD, LSV – The League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was indirectly called by one of the predecessors when he objected to the song: "Ready to prepare Chetniki", which is an anthem of the SRS, and nothing would be wrong with the anthem of Serbia. So the elections are nearing, and the resolution of Kosovo and Metohija's status is near, and this game played now by individual political parties in Serbia is very transparent and clear, it has been going on for many years. At the time of Slobodan Milosevic, it was easy to play that game. It's a little harder today. At that time, it was enough for someone to draw three or four hooky crosses on a wall in Belgrade and have the world media shaved about it for 15 days, to raise you, gentlemen, from DOS to accuse Serbia of fascism, and now you are in power. Now that doesn't seem enough anymore, a group should have been found somewhere to charge Serbia with fascism. I'm 55 years old, a few of you are in an O.R. that you're years old than me, and I grew up in Serbia where I could never become a fascist, nor glorify fascism, nor approve of any move that fascists have made anywhere in the world or ever made. I consider myself an ordinary citizen of Serbia. There is no fascist in Serbia. There are those of you who, through a group, accuse Serbia of fascism and wait for who of the great catch so that you can directly include him in that so-called fight against fascism and now there are fascist parties who are in power, with whom you are somewhere in power, so clear it with your fascists, whether that is enough ground to be together in power or not. But what you're doing, it's really, really puzzling and I don't think the government can handle this at all. You know the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Soon the crime of slander will be lifted, and you will never be able to forbid anyone from walking down the street and making his views known. There's a group, I don't know any members of that group in Novi Sad, I don't know what their ideology is, accuse them of fascism. Yesterday I saw a fascist sign among those 20 boys, and I see it in Germany almost every day on the streets. Such people walk the streets, left and right of them are cordon police, they have a marked path to move, they have time they can spend on the streets and have representatives in parliament, in a country that has been fascist and done evil to the whole world. It's Western democracy. Everyone can take a verbal stand and it's not for judgment, and there's no reason for citizens to interfere, nor to interfere. There's no group that can ban another group or individual from banning another individual from making his point of view, saying what he's thinking, propagating what he's thinking. I also told Mr Jovanovic on a show, you have the full right to say that Kosovo and Metohija are not part of Serbia, you see it that way, but you must not do anything to keep Kosovo and Metohija from being part of Serbia, because then you fall under the Constitution, the laws that come from the Constitution. So, you find 20 fools, you build on them a story of fascism in Serbia -- you bring 50 foreign cameras to record peaceful citizens attacking fascists. And what did you want on the streets that day? To fight those 20? Against which Serbia fought yesterday, to fight Fascism in Serbia, who, you name, accuse individuals, parties, bring evidence to the Serbian Parliament. Come on, once, finally, let's discuss your story of fascism in Serbia. Let's see what Fascism is. Is it fascism when your president says our party should be banned because it is fascist? What's that? Is fascism when the Democratic Party chokes the Assembly all night because a representative of the Serbian Radical Party for Parliament's President, a tragedy, will be done to the Assembly? Is that political fascism? Can any kind of exclusion, which goes to the point of discriminating man, be classified as fascism? What did we do on yesterday? To fight the citizens of Vojvodina, Serbia, Novi Sad, I don't know where all the people came from? Why didn't they pass by one, then the other, to provide for one, to provide for the other, and to provide for the citizens from both sides, and to put an end to all this peacefully? Why did the police ban one meeting and let the other one? What was the difference between 20 and 5,000? What difference does it make, they piss you off? Well, you're making 'em nervous, too. Now you're in a position to ban those who annoy you. In this country, everyone should live next to everyone. They're 20-year-old kids, 18, 30. Are they fascists? Did they make an act that you could say were fascists? No, they're not. It's the easiest thing to do. The media has been preparing Serbia for growing fascism for five or six days. You accuse the parties in power of being fascist. I don't care what you're accusing them of, I could look forward to it, but I can't, because you're accusing most of Serbia of being fascist. It's your story for Europe. So we can't let the Serbian Radical Party win, but we can't let those in power rule and they're fascists. Well, who's going to rule, people? LDP and LSV?- I'm sorry. Had enough of you? If there are any of you, rule. If Serbia wants you with 50% plus one, rule. If they want you in local self-government, rule, but do not accuse one another. I find it unacceptable for you to be in a coalition with fascists, and you're so many anti-fascism fighters. I don't understand it at all. (Chairman: Mr. Nikolic.) I'm finishing and I'm sorry. I had to say this on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, which doesn't feel at all involved in anything currently happening in Serbia, but as we are greatest and as much depends on us, we have to give you our position. You will never see any radicals, or tomorrow there will be no radicals, to prevent any gathering in Belgrade. No assembly can ever be banned, ever. You can't stop us anywhere, there's so much we can run over Serbia. But please do not involve Serbia in your party conflicts and do not accuse your own country of fascism for money. No other motive, except for the money you get from the West, I don't see you giving away so many faceless lies right now. Serbia is not fascist, Serbia has suffered under fascism. And if the fascist sign was with those kids where the militia broke their heads, and in your column I've seen a lot of NATO signs, these are the worst fascist signs that currently represent something in Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7339	At the moment, we have more than 40 MPs registered for the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7340	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to start from one finding, or from my belief that in this assembly, without any dilemma, 250 MPs sit, in turn all anti-fascists, or people who have a clear negative opinion on fascism. Talking about fascism in Serbia is just a joke. There is no man in this country whose family did not suffer from fascism. With this in mind, it is hard to believe that fascism in any serious form in this Serbia can exist, but there are politicians who seem to be profitable and there are politicians and political parties who seem to be able to earn some political points on this subject. In doing so, these politicians and these political parties use rhetoric, and the rich and resources that are closer to extreme political organisations that we have clearly identified in the past as fascists than those that belong to the civil and democratic option. Now the question is why do they do it? Except for those voices, which are probably necessary, because, I guess, the rating should keep growing. What is a more dangerous thesis and what is a much more dangerous attempt is for this country, or state in this country, to be presented in the most negative way possible right at the moment when the state is in a delicate situation, i.e. in a position, in the final phase of resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues. This parliament, almost unanimously, has told both the world and its citizens, but has also said on the basis of the support of these citizens, that Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of our country. Maybe someone's turning their eyes in this room right now, so he says as far as this Kosovo is concerned, but I'm telling you, yes, that's the topic and it's going to be a topic every day and every hour and every minute until we solve this issue in the best possible way for our country and our people. That is why, in order to draw public attention to other topics here, the question of some fascism in Serbia is raised. He de facto, that's my position, doesn't exist in Serbia. There are some marginal social groups, there are some young guys gathering I don't know about ideas, but there are also those who are in the interest of the group being bigger, there are those who want to see the most serious opponent in Serbia to give it to themselves. Mr. Canak is the most irresponsible and inconclusive politician in this country. He's not grown up in a political moment. It's been in the past, and it's proving it now. That is why its extreme policy and party represented, including the Liberal Democratic Party, is very dangerous because the MPs of these parties are sitting in Parliament, are not representatives of the National Machine, nor is it possible in Serbia in theory that they will ever sit in Parliament, but are sitting representatives of extreme organisations, whose representative and ideal leader Mr Nenad Canak is. This must be put in the way, and it must be said in the eyes once before – fascism does not exist in Serbia! An extreme policy that wants to weaken our country exists, led by the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina and the LDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7341	Dear People's MPs, this is the situation right now. Reported for the word are the following: all MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia, then Nada Kolundžija, Milena Milosevic, Milena Stankovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Cedomir Jovanovic, Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanovic and Milos Aligrudic. The word is by MP Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7342	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. It is looked at in several things and was said in several previous days in different stages of individual representatives of different political parties. There's a classic replacement here, which someone just said. It is trying to bring into our country something that, according to its tradition, does not exist and something that has caused Serbia to suffer greatly in the past ten years. I come from Vojvodina, I come from Sremska Mitrovica. I do not allow anyone the autonomous right to say that he is the only defender of Vojvodina and that he is the only defender of all the citizens of Vojvodina against fascism. In Vojvodina, a number of crimes occurred in the previous period, over the past hundred years. There were different sufferings from fascists. Here someone wants to show Serbia that it is and that fascism currently exists in Serbia. It is not a situation, and it is not a fact and no one of the marginal groups can try to show that it is a unique phenomenon in Serbia, that Serbia is so. Clearly, there are certain things that make someone want to do it. Serbia wants to weaken at the moment Serbia is fighting for what is its, when it is fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. In previous days, the state and its institutions have taken a great deal to contain these things and to avoid escalating violence in Novi Sad, at a time when these protests were scheduled, in the past few days. Clearly, representatives of a political party headed by Mr. Canko want to point out in the first plan themselves as defenders of those we can call fascist elements and marginal groups in Serbian society. They want, for the sake of getting cheap political points, to represent themselves as the only protectors. There may be much greater reasons, and much deeper reasons for that. Perhaps because Serbia is defending itself at this time with all its resources, thanks to all the ethnic MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and wants to defend Serbia, wants to defend Kosovo and Metohija and finally say Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. In this cheap way, using politics - hold these thieves, Serbia is wanted to be shown to be fascistally oriented and that there are many such individuals and a large number of groups in Serbia. The state gets in the way of that and stopped yesterday. I thank all the police, all the representatives of public order and peace, who prevented yesterday from violence on the streets of Novi Sad. I want to say one more thing in the end. Individuals are trying to protect themselves using the Self Help Institute, however, the state is strong enough and I can tell those, above all, to Mr Cank that he cannot be the only protector of Serbia against fascism because he does not exist in Serbia, and he is an extremist who tries the same methods to deal with those persons, those marginal groups that appear from time to time. Let me just say one more thing. Mr. Canak is an extremist and Mr. Canak is actually a National Machine, because he uses the same methods that some marginal groups in Serbia are trying to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7343	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7344	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What is a fact, we in the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group -- New Serbia expected this session to go on right now. By replacing thesis, the most terrible abuse of the media, twisting the truth and the imaginary story, we knew exactly how today's session would begin, who would first appear, and what topic would be imposed. Unfortunately, the minister has left so that we cannot discuss at least in the foreseeable period on the agenda. But, never mind, I think this is very important, and DSS and New Serbia MPs will take advantage of today's opportunity to tell Serbian citizens what they really think about what happened yesterday in Novi Sad. We've experienced this payphone being read to the newspaper, to convince certain television shows, to wave at posters, to do things. What is a fact, Mr. Canak said in his statement: "Flying in the hands and once and for all to solve the neo-Nazi question in Vojvodina." Nothing is disputed, and we stand behind the need to resolve that question, but not with flyers in our hands. We're not hordes, we're not hooligans, we're not some groups that need to be reckoned with rocks and flies on the streets of a town like Novi Sad. Neither Novi Sad nor Serbia deserved it, anyway. One citizen at a national frequency is trying to level the National Machine with one national party. In one statement stands – The National Machine looks like a youth DSS. That's embarrassing. Shame on you, whoever said that, it doesn't have to go any further! I was a member of the DSS youth, many people sitting here in the Serbian Parliament as MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia were members. Do we look like Nazis to you, fascists, are we serious people or do we want to deal with some completely irrelevant and ephemeral issues? It's clear our message. Mr. Canak is an extremist who uses this situation to make Serbia what it has never been, nor will it be. Therefore, only bravely, there is no retreat and we will defend indeed what the Serbian people fought for through their history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7345	Dear People's MPs, this situation arises as a situation that I, as chairman, cannot overcome on my own. So, 50 people registered under the Rules of Procedure, that means we've blocked the normal work of the Assembly. I'm setting a break, by Article 98. Rules of Procedure, from 30 minutes to 30 minutes, and I call on the heads of the parliamentary groups, deputy heads of parliament and vice-presidents of the National Assembly for consultations, on the first floor, to agree on a way forward. [[After break – 12,00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. At the consultations of the heads of Parliament's groups, we agreed to withdraw the announcements to the Rules of Procedure. We cannot impose such an agreement on the MPs, because there was opposition, because the MPs are free to appear in the Rules of Procedure as they wish. This is simply a recommendation from the heads of parliament to do so and to give our word to the heads of Parliament. I thank you, indeed, for this constructiveity. The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7347	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this discussion, I would like to tell you what I said and at consultations with my colleagues, the heads of Parliament. I think it would be very important for every MP to participate in this debate. I am personally sorry for the decision that has been made, but we will respect that decision, because I believe it has been made to preserve at least part of the integrity of this institution, which is threatened by the relationship between the MP and the MPs to it, but also by the relationship of other authorities. The debate we started today's work day had to be launched earlier. I think those who participated in this discussion will have a lot of reasons to be ashamed when they read what they said from this pay phone in six months or a year. It is not necessary to prove that Serbia is not a fascist country. Not anymore today, but it was not done by MPs and MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly. It was made by citizens of Novi Sad, Vojvodina, Serbia, who participated in an anti-fascist rally held yesterday in Novi Sad. We heard at the beginning of this discussion what Serbia didn't, but we didn't hear what Serbia was. We heard what Serbia is not responsible for, but we did not get an answer to the question of what Serbia is obliged to do to fulfill as a state the obligation it has to its society. Yesterday, Novi Sad was a city under siege, thousands of police officers, hundreds of police cars, cordons that ripped the city apart. It's not a decent life, and the only thing we have to provide for the people of this country is, in fact, that decent life. There have been incidents, and they are much smaller than what would have happened if the police hadn't been there and the state hadn't fulfilled part of its obligation to society. But the state did it late, too late. This is why the state is responsible for all the dilemmas that burden our everyday life, much more than the parties that were in the other plan, not because they are not ready to take responsibility in the fight against anti-fascism and neonasm, but because we did not want to bring down the party's context – such large ideas that neither the League of Social Democrats, LDP, SRS, DSS, or DSS, nor G17, nor the NS, nor the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, nor any party in Serbia. The right to free, happy and peaceful life is the right for which we exist and each of us should contribute to the exercise of that right, but obviously we are not prepared to do such a thing. Serbia in 2007 has been lurking about the foreigners it was found on account of our institutions' unpreparedness to change the wrong system of values, to name certain phenomena in society in time, rather than late, guilty. Too many words have been spent to describe something that is so simple and simple, so naked, vulgar, primitive, about which Serbia has kept quiet for more than a month, about which its institutions have kept quiet and what we are talking about today – about the Führer who decided to celebrate Himler's birthday. As much as there are great differences between us, I am sure that there are no people in this House who would be willing to identify in a political sense with the symbolism that follows this event, but we are not all equally responsible for the defeating truth, that our institutions have been silent for too long, that they have not respected the Constitution and the laws of this country, and that they are then powerless to act as they should have tried to find the defendants on duty. So we became once again the forces of chaos and madness. Right? Eleven years after 1996 or 15 years after the Vidovdan Assembly, or 16 years after 9 March, "the power of chaos and madness", because we sent the citizens a message that they live in a vision of an organized country, that the country is concrete when it sends them a call for an army, when they charge taxes, when they charge them a TV subscription, but that state is not effective when they need to protect their civil rights and freedoms. We LDP MPs are proud to live in this country, but not make us proud of its institutions, made us wonderful people, who, as so many times so far, have actually, in fact, been the only source of positive energy, hope and optimism in this country. Serbia's parliament is the paradigm of Serbia itself. We can tell ourselves everything, we just can't say that we're an effective institution, we can't say that we're a decent institution, we can't say for ourselves, in the end, that given the circumstances in which we work, we can be any kind of example of society in which we make decisions. What are the consequences of the debate that has been launched? If this is how it is discussed here in Parliament, how do you think it will be discussed in some other places in Serbia, how will it be discussed in the Vojvodina Parliament, in the Parliament of the City of Novi Sad, in some local parliament of the municipality in Serbia, how will it be discussed within the family? We do not agree that in a political sense differences are made in relation to this devastating idea of Nazism, or fascism. We believe that it is the obligation of each parliamentary party to fight against it within the limits of its possibilities. We cannot discuss the revision of history for 65 or 70 years after the start of World War II, and it is particularly unacceptable that those of us who went to Novi Sad yesterday to defend, among other things, the reputation and this institution, are accusing that we are the ones acting on the orders of another country and working against the interests of our country. They're only pale replicas, empty repetitions of accusations we've already heard before. We have said so many times so far that we think our state policy chose the wrong course when it set out to seek a solution to the Kosovo crisis. We have said what we are thinking and we have offered our help and have shown our willingness that at any time this state policy wishes to change, we have made a full contribution to these changes, but we have never accused the president and the prime minister of being traitors of this country, working against the interests of this country, of working in accordance with the needs of another country. We think it would be embarrassing, because, finally, we don't believe it. Here we heard from a person who was President of Parliament, regretting some different form of state order, but even then we didn't think that this was the result of a sincere intention for Serbia to become anyone's province. We considered this a political lapus LDP will insist on two forms of political action: one is, overcoming the devastating differences that the country's incompetent policy through its inefficient and inefficient institutions has re-produced in Serbia; another, uncompromising insistence on the way that Serbia must move if it wants good citizens and citizens living in it. Yesterday the police responded in Novi Sad. Members of the pro-fascist, neo-Nazi organizations have been arrested. There was an incident because the police didn't do it when she had to do it. This period of hesitation and tactics, foreigning and politics cannot go without asking a question of responsibility. Did the minister of police ask us for help? Did he ask for support for his actions? It's not. Instead, he was arrested when members of organisations who should not exist were committed to violence if the minister took care of his obligations to the country on whose behalf he performed his duty. Why should I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7349	Because of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7350	We understood that we had 20 minutes as head of the parliamentary groups to talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7351	Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7352	I'll be done in a minute. What our society needs at this point as a message from Parliament, I will repeat, for this I need less than one minute, no compromise with the essence, and there is no idea, no matter how much it was intimately large and valuable to us, which is more important than democracy, than respect for the right to a normal and free life, and a constant fight against that policy that has made our country so unhappy society, Nazi policies, fascism, extreme nationalism, a policy that has no power to clear our children's cheeks, if not ourselves, who live in a country that is in charge of the genocide and non-sanitisation of genocide. As an LDP, we will continue to implement our programme, and those who, before they thought we should be banned as a party to Serbia, have told them that they do not need elections when the Constitutional Law and other laws require it, but when they do, we want to send a simple message, the one we sent to their role models on October 5, 2000. At that time, we were very clear to defend the ideas that we are defending today. That's when we're stuck with the labels that you're putting us back together today, those labels are a privilege for us, not a burden we can't bear. We continue to fight for democratic, modern, European Serbia, against the ideas of those who tried yesterday to organise a neo-Nazi rally in Novi Sad, Vojvodina and Serbia, thus compromising all that is decent between us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7353	The word is from the People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7354	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have no inspiration to make a fiery speech on this subject, because I think that serious topics should be discussed seriously to the extent that they are serious and dangerous to society. So we as the Democratic Party have always built and supported the sensitivity of society to all negative phenomena. We believe that the sensitivity of society in a phenomenon that is negatively important is that society with this phenomenon will be able to cope at the very beginning, so that they do not get conditions that can later affect the citizens of this country. Of course, every phenomenon of Nazism and fascism for the Democratic Party is something that it is willing to react to and believes that this reaction must be adequate, must be proportionate to the dangers and resources that a society has at its disposal. Every time a theme is given more importance than it has, the question arises whether it is growing or suppressing it. So, without prejudice to the need for society to respond to phenomena that are Nazism and fascism, we believe that the reaction that is excessive is something that harms the idea itself is a reaction. For us here, one fundamental question is whether the reaction it has for definitions is growing fascism, prevailing, coming forward, etc., whether such reactions harm the state or benefit it. So we're being read on the outside by what we're saying here as identified dangers in our society. If they're reading us based on some of the formulas that we've heard here, then we've defined this as a society where there's a serious danger of fascism and Nazism. I don't think that's true. So it's, first of all, about the truth, it's not true, even though I think as a Democratic Party we react at the very beginning of all negative phenomena. I don't think it brings any political benefit if the way it pre-remands the phenomenon shows that this society has an identification with something the whole world recognizes as evil. I think it's the wrong subject and I think it's wrong for all those who are trying to take this topic as their weapons of inter-party reckoning. There is no excuse and there is nothing moral about the greatest evil that the 20th century civilization has recognized as Nazism and fascism being associated with political opponents and used as a means of reckoning with political opponents. The Democratic Party, also today, was in one context, very elaborately, called someone who did not resist such a single phenomenon. It's just that, not only isn't political fair, not only isn't it moral, it's a damage suffered by Serbian citizens whose name is supposed to be doing all this. I just want to say that the locale mentioned here is a public facility, a catering facility, and he's very tendingly connected to the military, so, trying to show that there is support in the army for those who were in the catering facility. I consider this an example of incorrect political struggle and dangerous abuse of one topic, which I think we'll all agree on, that if there are such phenomena I don't think there's anyone here who's going to defend this society from such phenomena. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7355	The word has been made by MP Nenad Canak, president of the Vojvodjani MPs LSV-SVM, and then Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, yesterday in Novi Sad, we had an opportunity to see in the work of a group of neo-Nazis, fascists and clerofashists gathered in the streets of Novi Sad. Yesterday we had a chance in Novi Sad to see thousands of police officers who came to maintain order in Novi Sad and thousands of citizens who came to protest the emergence of neonasm and fascism in our city. But there was an incident. The neo-Nazis attacked a group that was passing through, an endless procession of anti-fascists, and the stones began to hurt them. Mr. Pavel Domonia, president of the Helsinki Committee of Vojvodina, was injured at the time by which blood drops fell on the New Sad sidewalk. The blood, therefore, fell on the streets of Novi Sad. Drop it today! Are we going to wait for these to be streams so that we can start reacting? Are we going to be in a position to think at all about our safety on the streets of Serbia by those who are followers of the ideology defeated in World War II and the anti-fascist struggle? I'll draw your attention to what the question is. The point of the question is, why don't the police do their job? In 2005, after the incursion of the National Machine Group on Antifascism at the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad, the Vojvodina Assembly sought and received a police report on the functioning of extremist groups on Serbia's territory. In this report, the "National Machine" and the clerofastic organization "Face" and "Blood and Honor" are taxingly listed with all their elements and with all the categorizations that I now mention. Now I ask the question, if again in 2005 it was known there were Nazi and fascist groups in Serbia and the police knew it, from which the Vojvodina Assembly received the report, then why did the police not take the necessary steps? Why didn't the judiciary take the necessary steps? Why is it that yesterday comes to confrontation on the streets of Novi Sad? It's quite clear that some here are trying to undermine the meaning of what I'm saying. Of course some people don't mind fascists on the streets of Novi Sad, when their MPs are racists! Of course, they don't mind that the Novosadians are bothered by the uplifting of fascism, because they are trying to rehabilitate Milan Nedic and Dimitri Ljotic! Of course they don't mind that the representatives of the fascist organisation "National Machine" spread the flag of Nedic's Serbia because they think it's right! I'm going to invite anyone who thinks of it to go to an important place in this country, and then I'm going to say what. The point of the question we had yesterday in Novi Sad is: could a Serb be fascist, could a Serb be a Nazi, could a Serb be a criminal?- I'm sorry. If it is not clear to anyone to go to that important place I'm talking about, and it is in Serbia, in the town of Kragujevac, and it is the place of Šumarica. And let it be remembered who Marisav Petrovic was in that place. And let her remember how many students Marisav Petrovic took to the shooting. And let it be remembered what the traitors of this people did to this people in World War II dressed in Serbian uniforms with Serbian flags. That's what we saw yesterday. We watched fascists gathering from all over Europe. A dozen Slovak citizens have been arrested. From the border, a neo-Nazi from Poland, Slovenia, Bulgaria and God asks you where. Did they all come to defend Serbia from Serbs, from Serbian citizens? Have they come to protect Serbia's integrity and integrity or have they come to bring chaos into this country and that we all need to bow our heads and apologize to those who develop fascist flags, and the flag of Nedic's Serbia is a fascist flag. If someone thinks that yesterday in Novi Sad was a gathering that happened by confrontation of a handful of extremists on the one hand and on the other, they're wrong. By identifying fascists and anti-fascists, it's done in favor of fascists. There are things that can't be legalized, and that's why let the Nazis on the streets of the city on behalf of democracy is like letting rats into a children's room in the name of environmentalism. It just doesn't have anything to do with each other. All those who are trying to justify it, and I am being attacked by the fact that, behold, I have dared to mention that they should be stopped by flights, after two years of police reporting names, names and addresses of neo-Nazis in Novi Sad, nothing has been done but fall blood on the streets because the police are doing nothing. What were we supposed to wait for? They say: They are small; they should not be given meaning. Does that mean we should have waited for them to grow? They're quiet, they'll just walk, like they walked the streets of Belgrade and there was no reaction. Is that what we were supposed to wait for? Wait for them to grow up and be loud? Stop beating each other, but start beating them massively? Should we have waited? I've called for flights so I won't call in guns tomorrow. Understand what I'm saying, because the Nazis don't choose the means. You could see that yesterday. Fifty of them dragged a whole city of hundreds of thousands. We had a siege of the New Now. Thousands of anti-fascists passed and were stoned. That was 50, what about 500, what about 5,000? That's exactly what's being trashed here, because it's playing into the agenda with the darkest and most monstrous ideas modern civilization has ever seen, which Europe has seen in the HH century.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7357	Mr. Canak, one small intervention. No flights, no weapons, no government authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7358	Can I finish? And that's why, look what's happening to you in Sandzak. A struggle for supremacy in the Islamic community between those who will control it and those who want to be an expression of the will of citizens, peoples. The same thing you had in the New Sad, the need to equalize those who attack and defend themselves. That in Novi Sad, Vojvodina and Serbia, as far as I know, will not pass. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7359	The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since there was an agreement here that a few of the heads of Parliament clubs would say something about all these topics that have since this morning, and I suppose these days, been rounding up the local political public, I just want to bring out what you all know well, and we've talked about it, warned about it all over the years and before, and that Serbia is dangerously playing with forgetting and eradicating its history, that you've made a serious political mistake by perhaps knowingly, perhaps unconsciously, perhaps because of voters, perhaps because of its ancestors, equalised those who fought for the freedom of their people and those who collaborated with the occupier, at least one part during World War II. That's what you all voted for here in the National Assembly, which you were then, except for the Socialist Party of Serbia. Also, what Mr. Canak was talking about. You also voted for the possibility of rehabilitating Milan Nedic, even someone here in the National Assembly mentioned Dimitri Ljotic. So, we talked about it in time, just against one whole people being pushed into fascillation and Nazis and against it, as the actor Predrag Adus once said, that Serbia should pass the process of dedication. Serbia as a state was never fascist or Nazi, regardless of whether Slobodan Milosevic, Vojislav Kostunica, Zoran Djindjic or Boris Tadic were in power. So I ask you not to harm Serbia as a state by fighting each other. And it is normal for Serbia to have the weakest celebration of 50 years of freedom from fascism. That's normal, because they didn't have a way to mark that celebration. Because they should have shown those who freed the country from fascism. Then how do they show only them without showing these others that they evened out with those who participated in World War II? You remember those celebrations. Remember, the celebration was at the Sava Center, people who were present were wondering if there was even a Second World War. And until a picture of the man I had never seen or met, and some saw him three times, and they wrote songs about it, so they saw him several times, so they buried him and everything else, so until they saw the picture of Joseph Broz Tito, there was no applause at the "Sava" center that year when you marked 50 years or 60 years of victory over fascism. So this whole story we're talking about today isn't since yesterday. I am opposed to taking political benefits from this for certain political parties, but I would remind you that we now need to pass a law on combat and disability protection, which will include the provision on equalising the rights of Partisans and Chetniks and not just Chetniks. We didn't just equalize the Chetniks, we evened out some others, all who had three witnesses that they were fighting the occupiers. There are certainly non-decrets among them. You remember that at the time of your government, it was an initiative for a square to be named Dimitri Ljotic, in a city in Serbia, in Smederevo. Don't be surprised now where you get these ideas of Naziry or Fascism and everything else. I am absolutely against a political organisation or association because it represents national political views being declared fascist or Nazi. There's a difference between fascism and Nazism and what someone thinks they are. Of course, the state authorities should be involved in all this. We have other examples. There are other problems in Serbia. I expected to talk about it here today, although some of them came out of this room, or one of the Mufti said in Novi Pazar that they would never give up Sarajevo. I didn't hear anyone here react to the occasion. I want to tell you that those who demand that Serbia give up Kosovo, those who ask for Serbia to give up Republika Srpska or that the Serb from Banja Luka give up Belgrade now ask us to accept it and listen peacefully. We do not interfere with religious conflicts, nor do I care, but remember that one of the ambassadors said that soon you will have fun not with Kosovo, but with Vojvodina and Sandzak, or Raska. So if there can be a message from all of this, there is no political party in Serbia that supports fascism, Nazism, etc., publicly. I advocate, of course, the SPS advocates banning every form of fascism and Nazism in Serbia. The SPS advocates the preservation of anti-fascist traditions, not the destruction of anti-fascist monuments and markings throughout the country. There were some here who marveled at the destruction of a monument or a cemetery. And Stevan Filipovic was shot down, and then some of you were at DOS, etc., and now I don't know who they're with. They were, not to tell where they were, because I no longer know where they are or what they are, but what Serbia should be proud of is an anti-fascist tradition. Serbia has made huge sacrifices in the fight against fascism and Nazism. Today, if a Serb were to be a Nazi, it would be the same as if a Jew were a Nazi. How many Serbs died in Jasenovac, how many Serbs died inside Serbia because of our intra-Serb conflicts over fascism and Nazism? Therefore, all in all, the SPS supports Serbia's efforts to go one way in which there will be no trace of fascism or Nazism, but we are, of course, against one organisation or association, just so that they are easily attributed to fascist signs. I'll tell you here that many times, you know that, in your history, for our party, for the party I belong to, you said it was like this or that, fascist, Nazi, nationalist. You should take care of it when you talk about it. Today when you talk about all this, you should also make sure that someone listens and listens to it from the side and this is what they're going to talk about. But it will not be said that Serbia is anti-fascist, but it will be discussed that 20, 30, 50 fascists in Serbia have made a Darmar in Serbia. So when we talk about everything, we have to take care of national and state interests. I absolutely advocate that the state is doing its job, if the state is doing its job, then we won't have that kind of problem. Of course, since there have been various objections to the topic here, Serbia has never been fascist or Nazi, especially in the post-World War II era, regardless of whether it was ruled by Slobodan Milosevic, Kostunica, Djindjic or Tadic, we are far from the fact that Serbian society is fascist and Nazi. Of course we are far from it, because we live in a country where certainly one third of the population is not Serbs and where there is national equality, among other things, and all these years as far as the SPS was in power – Serbia has been defined as the state of all citizens, not just as the state of the Serbian people. So, the SPS will support every fight against fascism, against Nazism, and we're asking the state to pay attention to that. But attention is not given only when some demonstrations are organized. Attention is paid and it is a shame for a country when it has no representatives when the whole world celebrates the fall of fascism and the anniversary of the fall of fascism. Obviously, we today have those who are ashamed of Serbia’s defeat of fascism in 1944 and 1945. Perhaps in 1944 and 1945 some political ancestors of some sitting here in Serbia were defeated, but that is our internal Serbian thing. For the outside matter, for what is needed as a political representative of Serbia, at the moment it is important for Serbia to be a state in which the state authorities and all political parties in Serbia will have a similar position. So, "death of fascism," right, Mr. Chanak? Death to fascism, and I especially like what you had on your parolees – NATO is an equally cowardly cross. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7361	The word comes from MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, and then Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I made it seem clear to me at the beginning of today's session. Whoever really wants to know what the Parliament's definition is, suggest some sort of resolution to be held here. We will establish which text is best, we will plead as the Assembly on whether there is fascism in Serbia or not and whether Serbia is a country that will or will not grow it and we can very easily end it. I remain in the view that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic and Mr Nenad Canak have a difficult task of accusing Serbia of growing fascism, to bring Serbia into a situation that, at a time when difficult solutions are imposed, it is not in a position for the world community to show itself as a state to which rights should be granted, since it is for the country to give its citizens, particularly at risk, to the same rights. This is where I heard the Kragujevac story. Who's telling me that story? I could call Mr. Chank the Duke Marisav Petrovic. That's what you're accusing Marisav Petrovic of, that's what you're doing now, Mr. Canak. What else did you do after that? On the basis of Marisav Petrovic, you are building a position on Serbia and Serbs. Then say it clearly here – the Germans don't work as a people, they had Hitler, the Italians don't work as a people, they had Mussolini, the French had Petten, they had Horti, so you don't think any people should do it, because he had 10, 20, 50 years ago someone who did evil. And now that Mr Jovanovic's thesis -- Serbia has committed evil, Serbia should be fenced by some evil that it has committed. What evil has Serbia committed, and how can Serbia commit evil and where can Serbia make concessions? Is there a citizen who committed evil, a crime? Let him answer. Not Serbia, not a whole day's debate just because you two see growing fascism. Your rod is justified, Mr. Canak, because you judge. When you say - someone can fight with a stick, it's over, said Nenad Canak. That one should be beaten with a stick. If someone throws a stone at the Nenad Chanka, he's a fascist, because Nenad Canak didn't approve of throwing a stone at his highness. Why don't you have the same arches? What's fascism? I can charge you all here. Since you came to power in Serbia in 1996, a form of investing in fascism has become clear. Let my Kragujevci say how many more streets with the name of children killed by Germans exist in Kragujevac, who died in 1941, 1942, 1943, from the Germans, how much debate I had with the Coalition together then, with DEPOS, and with DOS. He was at war, fighting the Germans! Cut off his street. And he fought Fascism, Mr. Canak. Let's see if that's the case in the cities where you're in power. Are there any streets that bear the names of the illegals, the SCOYs, the anti-fascism fighters, or do you think they were the commies who pulled a mustache in 1941? So we put everything under the glass, both yours and our behavior. I don't care if you're forced by the treasonous media, which is forced by the entire Western press and Western television, which has as many cameras as you want here, they don't even come from abroad, they don't even have correspondence here, to hear what Nenad Canak and Cedomir Jovanovic are going to say about fascism in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They don't care what 230 MPs think differently. Who asks most of them in the National Assembly? Most in the National Assembly don't exist, for one idea form it with the DSS, the other with DS, for the third with this, for the fourth with that. There's no formed majority here, there's no ideologies here. This country is not run by one unique ideology, so let's make it 50 parties in the coalition. This ideology is what you've been using, you've gotten into it. When would Mr. Jovanovic enter Parliament if Kostunica hadn't forced him into the campaign and had not had so much money? If you'd come in, Mr. Chanak, if you had, say, condemned Honved or that movement in County? If you had ever said it was fascism, would you have entered the Serbian Parliament? You did, I see, you did demonstrate against it, but you heard that there are about 30 under-adults, probably under-educated, who don't know anything about life, who allow someone to call them fascists and praise it. And in that you tell me a story about how we are all Serbian descendants of Marisav Petrovic, so we will all be fascists. He's just gonna get us out of it. It can't be done, Mr. Canak, I don't allow it for the SRS. Whenever you tell a lie about a stranger here, count on it to score points with those of your voters, and that's all you're going to do, but count, Mr. Canak, that's why Serbia doesn't like you anymore. I'm not saying you need a stick. I never recommended it to anyone. I've never heard of you jumping into the defense of people who are your political rivals, who have experienced terror and abuse of power, and my smallness, and when I'm beaten here and locked up in prison in Gjilan, I didn't get much support from you. What do you do, let them beat them? Whatever authority comes, let it beat the radicals. What do I expect when you come to power, if you say we're fascists now? Your problem is, Mr. Chanak, that someone else in your childhood hit you with a fucking stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7363	Mr. Nikolic, please take care of your appointments. National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group, and then Nenad Canak, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7364	I am very pleased that we have had the opportunity to hear in the end and Nenada Chanka, who in his presentation confirmed two thesiss that he represents and which will help maximum defense of what I said at the outset, caused by a really inappropriate performance by Mr. Maraš, who, in fact, caused this whole chain of discussions, and these two thesis are next. The first is that we have the danger of growing fascism in Serbia, that we have neo-Nazi groups that are going through Serbia, killing, harassing and harassing Serbian citizens, that's the basic thesis. The measure in which it is true will remain for discussion, I suppose, and how serious it is. The second thesis is very dangerous, and that is what I want to talk about, and that is, that some political party, some other social groups, here is the leader of such forces, fortunately still very small in Serbia, Nenad Canak, have the right to say the following – the institutions of this country, the institutions of the system do not work, do not prevent the savagery of Nazi hordes in Serbia in whose sign apparently, according to Nenad Canka, Serbia lives, so since there is no possibility that the state will respond adequately, then it is allowed for people to help. That's your thesis. I will tell you this, such a thesis was given at the party meetings of the then National Socialist Workers' Party of Germany, which came from a Bavarian party before that, after Hitler joined the new party, with a changed name, such a thesis advocated in his society associate Adolf Hitler, Erst Rem. Not only did he say it, he did it. Here's a very simple parallel. He marked such a dangerous social group whose hordes destroy German tissue, the Communist party then in Germany and, of course, everyone knows, another group of people in Germany who were not so small, whose fault was only that they were members of one nation – Jews. Then, of course, by accusing the German authorities that after World War I they were unable to bring order to the state, decided that by rifles, poles, stones and other means, they had chased those bastards off the streets and thus opened a wide path for something that had no connection to democracy, they had opened up the possibility that anyone could bring in any member of that society later on in connection with those groups that were branded dangerous, whether there was an excuse or not, whether there was any evidence of such a thing and that, of course, its quest, such as Mussolini's journey to Rome, could be realized in that direction, which all today, who had read a little bit of history, had looked at at at at at at at at at at at at at at at at at at at at least two three shows on television, which it was clear how things were further. It was developed by people being persecuted for the spoken word, ending with books being burned, people being beaten, arrested, and destroyed, not only by people who think differently, but also by those who are members of another people, just because they were born as such. Mr. Canak, what you said a few weeks ago about the media, what you said on the show last night, is nothing more than such a methodology of working in defense of our political ideas. I said this morning that in your party program, it's your only pledge and the only idea of planting pink flowers. If you think you're realising it by beating up everyone you think is in your way, in that realization of that idea, that's quite enough and that's my opinion. I'm not calling it, it's my opinion that your work is banned, just as I would never allow any political activity to be done by those you're supposed to be grudges to and for whom you allegedly demonstrated after the New Sad yesterday. Because you didn't do it because of a handful of 30-somethings, for me, completely, silly kids, who don't know where the hollows are, but regardless of what the name of their organization is, one of those organizations is even internationally known, which is what law enforcement authorities, police and all of us would have agreed on anyway, but your idea was something completely different, to re-affirm one much more dangerous idea, which is to allow you to label whoever you want in this society and whenever it comes to you, where it's an element to be fired, and probably after this event yesterday and after you perform on B92 and after what you said about this pay phone, which you openly admitted. So your methodology is the methodology of the pole. That's what you said today, openly, there's a stenogram, so everyone can read it. Does that mean that it's an open invitation to me or anyone else you bring in, because you want to, in connection with something negative, like Nazism or fascism, every time I walk across the street that I can get hit with a rock, hit me with a stick and thus stop me in my so-called. Bad intentions. Mr. Canak, if what you said today isn't dangerous for society, then I don't know what it is. If that's not the reason why in one normal state, which I hope we're building on, the public prosecutor calls the next day, and when we succeed, I hope that we will quickly do so and form a Constitutional Court in this country, that this body will also address such statements, not just statements, but also works and what happens on the street. So, it wasn't a normal set yesterday that you organised, to draw the public's attention to the danger of fascism, and if we're really going to look at it, there are no dangers, but there are various extreme groups dealing with the institutions of the system and police, but you did it to draw attention to yourself, so that you can do more than that from your complicated position in Serbia, which you will never succeed. So three lives to live, you won't be able to do your job. The only thing you can produce is this kind of reaction that suits you in part, because you're talking about you and, unfortunately, you've succeeded, because it's simply impossible to say such a bunch of things, such a bunch of dangerous things that can undermine the very foundation of this society, and that it's left without any response and no reaction. It is simply impossible, with your speech like this, you would be marked by a vast majority of society in every normal developed European democratic state as an extremist. You would really be the main theme of journalists and their main target on the front pages of the lists, but I suppose those citizens who have been used to democracy through decades of experience would never then give them the right to ever turn around in Parliament again, because that right here in democratic society gives us citizens. And what the citizens of this will learn, I sincerely hope, is that such a slip and such an unfortunate mistake that they made from some delusion, which they had at some point, will never again, at least not the critical part of those who would allow you to cross the censorship and that's what I sincerely hope for. That's what I think this thing is going to end up like, because everything you said about this pay phone, in fact, it hasn't disproved anything we talked about, you're simply transposing. You know that there's going to be a gathering of an extreme group of young people, which otherwise works internationally, and it's nothing controversial, which will try to draw attention to their ideas with their public gathering, which are obviously unacceptable for 99.999 percent of the people living in this country, regardless of their ethnicity. And then you use this set that you need, it's known who, to finish the whole job, to promote your ideas, and obviously, of all the ideas that we're going to remember from this pay phone, which you said backwards, I don't know how much, and what we've seen in the media, is not the idea of a democratic society, nor normal life, nor left-wing, nor right-wing, but it's the idea of "modka". That's what you're talking about. If this assembly thinks it can just go through with it and that the idea of "modka" can be the basis for the development of a democratic society, then you're wrong. Last week, a party delegation was in Strasbourg and we witnessed a relaunch of the Kosovo independent resolution, which will likely catch up with us in January. During the time, while we are making efforts to convince our colleagues from other parliaments in Europe, which is why the idea is in progress, when the status of the future province of Serbia is not really agreed, the form of this status is not agreed, that this will do great damage and when we managed to convince most of the last time, last January, work has to be done again, you are trying to sell to the media in Serbia, which is the worst and foreign media, the story of how Serbia's Fascision is coming. That's a great message. You can talk as much as you want. You say whatever you want. I, as a Democrats, don't want to prevent you, so let people then assess whether one or another is right, but what you don't have the right to do and what I believe the police in this country have to prevent, and I resent that there is no ban on your assembly, which I will resent for my minister, we can disagree with, is that it can't be held and supported by a public meeting, at which those who organise this meeting are calling for membership to come and be ready to stop someone else who demonstrates the poles. We just don't get to do that. Someone mentioned that there were people at the rally who were wearing NATO transparency is equal to a cowardly cross, equal Nazism, so you told me, when I asked you, that they were some anarchists. You know why they're here? You promised them a fight, if you hadn't promised them a fight, those people wouldn't have come. What would be fun for them to demonstrate with such a transparency at your rally? Your meeting brought together various people, even those who were most well-intentioned, whom I personally knew and with whom I spoke and who I had no intention of attacking because of the presence of this gathering, because people probably thought that by participating in the meeting they would really express one personal position, one personal belief strictly against Nazism or fascism or its roots or possible occurrences in Serbia. I respect that, Mr. Canak, but I can't respect those of you who were ready to be headbroken at that rally, so that you can make your petty political points come true. Mr. Canak, you're an extremist. If there is anyone here in Serbia extremist, at this point, and has a certain weight because you are in Parliament, you are an extremist and you are a machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7365	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, the replica. I only ask you, indeed, that we do not spread the replica any further, according to agreement, discussion, if possible. Everyone's made their point.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's obviously been a serious misunderstanding here. Mr. Nikolic, when I spoke of Marisav Petrovic, I was talking about that nationality does not mean by definition and political membership, I was talking about that being a Serb does not mean that it cannot be a fascist. I wasn't talking about the Serbian people, who I belong to myself, but I was talking about what you would call "prodigals or traitors," and I would agree with you only in that case. But I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about the very political, first of all, occurrences of real damage to this country and its majority people. I remind you that what Mr. Aligrudic said, about extreme groups dealing with system institutions, so we, citizens, don't need to deal with them, in the meantime, when police gave their report, where they characterized them as international secret neo-Nazi groups that exist in more than 18 countries, which function in the way they operate, they came in a position not to deal with them anymore, so that they can make thousands of provocations, to harass people, to beat people, to abuse them, without doing anything. And you, if you tell me, that anti-fascists and fascists are the same, that they have the right to both appear on the streets and that anti-fascists and Nazis are there to show their democratic opinion, then you are a man who propagates Nazism and gives a chance to the worst ideology that has appeared in the 20th century, that free goes the streets of Serbia to march, that the regime says, well, that's the right to another opinion and that they call for the extermination of entire nations, to call for the extinction of the lower race, to do all this just because it is, well, your vision of democracy. Now, you see, since such a view of democracy, millions of people in these areas have paid their heads off and it's not blah -- blah, it's a historical fact. And the fact that you, in your own self-serving politics, can go from left to right, from right to left, to choose this indisposed president of the Serbian Parliament and replace him after a few days and trample on the elemental human dignity, to act in the most shameful way possible towards the people who trust you, that's on your cheek. One more thing I'd say, it was an international rally by neo-Nazis. They've gathered from all over Europe. A scum from all over Europe came to Novi Sad to run the streets of Novi Sad, "Zighiluje" and yell "legally - legal". That's what happened in Novi Sad. And as for the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Nikolic, the guest of Vojislav Seselj was a certain Lepen, right? The Lepen had volunteers in wars in the former Yugoslavia, who fought on the side of Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7367	MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7368	I totally understood Mr. Chank, maybe he didn't understand how I answered him. So, the only fascism in the world right now is globalism. If these globalists came to Serbia, Nenad Canak would play the role of Marisav Petrovic, that's all I said. He would point out who should be a stick, who should be shot, who goes to a concentration camp, who needs to be released. I didn't say anything else about that. It wasn't an international rally because these abroad people had already been arrested. If they were there, it was an international event. But, Mr. Canak, to be absolutely clear, fascism in Serbia is gone and will never be there. Don't build on that any political platform. You could do that if you owned an NGO, then some project, which they finance you with, from these NGOs, so for example, the project by growing fascism in Serbia, and then giving you 500,000, million euros, you create a project and justify it. Don't say that in the Serbian Parliament. What kind of a Serb are you, Mr. Canak? How can you call yourself a Serb and accuse your country and your people of fascism? If we were fascists, I'd appreciate what you're saying from the pay phone, even if your head is gone, but it doesn't take the courage to accuse the whole nation and the whole country, this is Serbia. No one defends this Serbia. This Serbia is just being attacked. These cameras outside, they didn't come to hear the voice of reason brought out by other MPs, but to hear you, Mr. Canak, from abroad. That this Serbia gets Kosovo and Metohija with a high degree of autonomy, such fascist or growing fascism, or already affected by fascism, so who will give it to us? Tomorrow, Albanians should rightly say, people, you are pushing us into the hands of fascists, that they are managing Kosovo and Metohija. From Milosevic so nothing has changed, the fascists were, the fascists were others, that's your thesis, Mr. Canak. That's not good, that's an unwarranted thesis. You have the right to take it out behind this pay phone. There's nothing you can do about it. There's no prosecutor here for what Mr. Canak says. He has the right to say so, but this is not Serbia. Here, convince Serbia that it is. Let's go to the election and see how many percent you win. It's important to you that you don't fall below 5% to hear your voice. Remember, what you showed when you were in power or where you are and now in power doesn't talk too much about you as moral people, about you as people who are Democrats, or about you, Mr. Canak, or about you, Mr. Jovanovic. God forbid you publish the book of your stenographic notes while you were head of the parliamentary group, then the arrogant DOS, you'd be ashamed of everything you've done to the other MPs. Now's the second time. I think we've finally caught up with some democratic flows, and you two are jumping something out of me. You two can't possibly get involved in that democracy. Now you'd like the radicals to tear this congregation apart, but there's no reason, no one's making us do it, we've got our own pay phone, we've got a television feed, we don't need anything anymore. Our ideas reach the citizens of Serbia. Our ideas are very modern, and to you, I don't know whose ideas you represent and why European values, which have entered the Constitution of Serbia, are not always applied literally, but only where it suits you. The European value, for example, is that in Germany, neo-Nazis march the streets, that police provide them with complete security, only they have no right to bear World War II markings. It is very true, if you know nothing about fascism, read at least the master's work of Dr. Vojislav Seselj. You'll be able to find out a lot in it. So, in Germany, fascism grows and the whole world is quiet because people are passing by, not fascists, just the police tell them you have a certain time, a certain space, the police will be around you. They fight the police, because they're just as silly people as the ones who attacked you yesterday, as these organized fans like to fight with the police, there's something between them, some connection, but they beat up with the police and no one in Germany said -- well, because you're letting Hitler do it. No, Germany is a very modern European country, it doesn't occur to her to be fascist again. What's she doing with America taking that position?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7369	Mr. Canak, are you re-applying to the Rules of Procedure, replica and so forth? If so, the reaction before you is that the entire DSS - NS Parliament Club has appeared again, according to the Rules of Procedure. We're not doing that. We made a deal. Mr. Aligrudic, let's finish the discussion. I'd like to ask everyone to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7370	I'm going to say earlier that I would really like to, if I can respect your request, to stop this, but if there is no agreement that we wanted to make, then of course it can't be done that way. Mr. Canak, you just said that I don't distinguish fascists and anti-fascists. Of course I do, but the quality of those who are anti-fascists isn't enough just to be anti-fascists. In order to respect them, they must be Democrats, which you obviously are not. So that's the basic difference. And not only are you not a Democrats but you are also someone who works hard against the interests of this country, as I see it, and how fortunately the vast majority of the population of this country sees it. I remember the events of three years ago when we were together at a convention of local and regional authorities in Strasbourg, when there was some point on the agenda, I can't remember anymore, but I remember your words well. On that occasion, in public with the MPs of the local regional government congress, you said that Serbia, according to you, is a clerofastic state. That's what you said, yes, because I have a stenogram in French, which was given to translate in the meantime, and I've been saving it for this situation when it happens that it can be controversial for you, and then, of course, we'll publish it in the paper and prove what you said then, and fortunately these people are recording a tape of what happened back three years ago. So I hope there's even a recording of what you said. So, it was so horrible, so terrible that it wasn't that the MPs from Serbia who were simply found were reacting, they didn't know what to do, but was reacting by the chairman, Dubravka Shuica, a member of the HDZ and mayor of Dubrovnik, who took away your word and said that the dictionary you use is not suitable for that home and therefore cannot allow you any further participation in the discussion. That's the truth. It's good for people to hear this and hear who's calling me from this pay phone not to tell the difference between anti-fascists and fascists. I very well distinguish what democratic methods are political struggles and what they are not. You are certainly the person who openly advocates, and today's stenogram from this session and those who followed the transmission can confirm this, for physical consideration as a method of political struggle. I therefore call on all citizens of Serbia from this place to oppose a non-violent method against those who advocate violence. First, we, as their elected representatives from this home, will do it in a word, because it is only possible, and I hope that the state authorities, regardless of who is in power in Serbia, whether my political party or another party, will certainly do what it takes to try to translate the political language into the language of street accounting in this country, regardless of the name of ideology it is, and no matter what, because you are an extremist from the Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-10-08-0.u7371	Dear People's MPs, or we stop and continue on the agenda... No stopping? All right. In accordance with Article 98. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. Since we all see that the atmosphere has come to an end, and for the sake of preserving the reputation of this institution, I think we need to respect our mutual agreement at the meeting of the heads of Parliament. That's what we'll be consulting about in the day. That's why he's setting up a session tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 127 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Markovic, Marko Djurisic, Dusan Bajatovic, Vensa Pesic and Elvira Kovac. We move on to a joint single search of the 10-14th agenda: –PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON CONVENTION OF THE UNITED NATIONS ON THE FIELD OF DESERTIFICATION IN THE LANDS WITH HARD DESERTIFICATION AND/OR DESERTIFICATION, SPECIAL IN AFRICA, ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENT OF THE LIFE FLORE AND FAUNE AND THE TERMINAL COUNTRIES AND CONSERVATION OF THE MIGURAL SPECIES OF THE CARPATS, THE CONTINUTION OF THE EUROPEAN DIFFERENCE OF FLORE AND OF THE FUNDS AND OF THE FUTURES AND THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE MIGRORAL SPECIES OF THE CURITIVES OF CURES ( CONTINUE) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorović, according to the Rules of Procedure, Miroslavić.
