ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 105 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and ENDS OF THE LAW ON THE COUNTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (sumption) Let the National MP Petar Jojic be prepared, and before continuing, the word was sought, according to the Rules of Procedure, by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. It is good that Minister Jocic is here, not only as interior minister, but also vice-president of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I address you first because of the obvious problem and the person who is a member of the DSS. If it isn't, you guys go public and tell them you had nothing to do with that man. It is that I have been addressed, as a national MP, by the citizens of Kosovo Pomorev, not only from the village of Šilovo where, at this moment, on the fifth day, the colonel retired Mr. Živojin Jaklic in front of the House of Culture strikes hunger. He is strikein' hunger for your doctor Milorad Todorovic, who began to perform since the beginning of the occupation, that is, since the arrival of DOS to power, not only in the area of Kosovo Pomorav, but in all the occupation and Shiparian institutions of power. Milorad Todorovic is known for various machinations he had with Nebojsa Covic, while this one was headed by the Co-ordination Committee on Kosovo and Metohija; all of what was defined for projects or for certain objects he was misusing, and that is what he is doing today. Mr. Colonel, who's looking, just like all the citizens of the village of Shilovo, where seven days ago, you could have tracked on one of the media, discovered a memorial plate in support of these people to stay there... The fact is, the SRS will always take care of them. But it's obvious that Milorad Todorovic doesn't want it, he cares about himself and his pocket, so he started building a private hospital in Turkey. That's probably what doctors from your ranks know about, from your party. But it wouldn't be the biggest problem, it would be the biggest problem, Mr. Jocic, which he, through these party, scrawny and material interests, is the fight of the locals of the region, or so on. Serbian enclaves, whose life there is at risk every day. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, you who do not know, but know colleagues from the DSS and from other parties, as well as the SRS particularly, that over the past seven years we have apostrophe of the name Milorad Todorovic, doctor, pediatrician, that he was once a minister in the Shiptar government and that in 2001 he pressured the entire medical staff to be included in the occupation institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. He's been working for the occupier since the beginning, and you've probably rewarded him for all of his marifetteluke, because he's doing it and he's kidnapping everything that comes to his mind... So, the man has been forced to strike on behalf of the locals for five days hungrier. (President: Time. Mr. President, it's really serious. I am absolutely confident, if there are currents in this place, Shilovo near Gjilan, that the entire village is now being monitored, and all of Kosovo Pomoravalje, and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is a man who has completely restricted to institutional crime. This government, the party to which it belongs, first the first Dosovo government, Djindjic, and later Zivkovic, and then even Kostunica rewarded it, you appointed it head of the Kosovo-Pomorava County, then when you might want to distance from it for a little while... He was even an MP in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. He's still in a situation where he's unhindered, kidnapped and doing whatever he wants. That's why I invite you, Mr. President, to give me today, and that Mr. Minister, both from party office and from the post of Minister of Interior, exams...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5169	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5170	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday I spoke to you and asked you for an explanation why you do not act in accordance with the law and why you do not fulfil the obligations prescribed by the law. It's about introducing forced administrations and your obligation to call elections in local self-government units. Since you kept my question quiet yesterday and didn't want to answer any questions, I have to ask you today, and maybe for the next few days, each and every day for one municipality. Today I ask you - why, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you did not call elections for the local self-government unit, in this case it is Smederevo municipality. Namely, the emergency administration was introduced in November 2006 and then a temporary body of five members, consisting of DSS members, the SPS and one member of New Serbia, was formed. Otherwise, the DSS and the SPS were local authorities. In July 2007, the government of the Republic of Serbia changed the composition of this provisional body and the provisional body is now members of the DS and member of the G17 Plus. The government has introduced the G17 Plus party into the interim body, which has not even achieved censorship in the local elections. Mr. President Dulic, the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 113 paragraph 3, is very clear: "The President of the National Assembly shall hold elections for the council members within three months of the day of the disband of the local self-government unit." This unit of local self-government was disbanded in November 2006. Even if we say that the National Assembly in the new assembly was established in May 2007, there are already more than three months that you have been elected to this duty, you are the first among us and you should respect the law. It would be logical for you to respect the law and call elections for local self-government units. It is not logical that the Government of the Republic of Serbia forms an authority against the Constitution, because in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 102 paragraph 3, it is said that by disbanding the assembly of the municipality, the Government appoints a temporary body that performs the tasks and responsibilities of the assembly, taking care of the political and national composition of the disbanded assembly. (President: Time. ) So, Mr. Dulic, not only has the government included representatives of the party who did not pass the censorship in the local elections, but you, by your silence, let that illegality last. I ask you to call today's elections for the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit of Smederevo, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5171	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic, the problem is a little more complex and the problem isn't just the Smederevo municipality. There are a large number of municipalities that have a similar situation. You will get a written clear explanation of why this problem exists. It's about a lot of other municipalities. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5172	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of the provisions of Members 220 and 221. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as the provisions of Article 27 relating to your responsibilities, obligations and responsibilities, Mr. President. Please answer what I'm going to ask, and then I'll probably ask parliament to make a statement. I've mentioned several times from this pay phone that a country that claims to be legal and no Constitutional Court does not meet even the basic requirements of being a serious state. Mr. President, you have recently publicly, through the media, advocated that the Constitutional Law be respected when it comes to presidential elections. The Constitutional Law cannot be observed in a partial or selective manner. He's either respected or disrespected. You don't respect part of that constitutional law, that's Article 5 concerning the election of the governor of the National Bank. Why doesn't it seem? Because there is some political agreement to be Radovan Jelasic. It is unlikely that this parliament would choose this man as governor of the National Bank, because it characterizes everything that should not be property, the virtues of the governor of the National Bank – from tax evasion, which is unimaginable in the real world, through tampering with the country's foreign reserves, the issue of cash registers, etc. He is the man charged with a serious crime, Dejan Simic, who returned to the post of his advisor at the National Bank, and then, with his recommendation, the man tried for a serious crime became the director of the OTP Bank. It's nowhere in the world. You hold such a man silently as governor of the National Bank, and you violate the provision of Article 5. Constitutional law. With regard to Article 9, as mentioned several times, which speaks of the election of the Constitutional Court judges, the first session came, the second session began, and there is no announcement when this country will be given the Constitutional Court. (President: Time. Mr. President, yesterday you allowed individual MPs to speak 11 minutes on behalf of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. I quote you the provisions of the Constitution and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and don't interrupt me. (President: Please. This may be awkward for you, but listen to me. So when will the Constitutional Court judges be elected? We don't have a Constitutional Court. Any law to be passed here is a matter of how to provide constitutional protection for those who wish to seek it from the Constitutional Court, who is not present. One more thing I suggest to you, I demand and insist, also for the Constitutional Court – to put an initiative of about 20,000 citizens a year and a half ago on the agenda. It's not about changing the government, it's a people's initiative, and it's supposed to be on the agenda, about changing the Law on Broadcasting, about abolishing the television subscription.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5173	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Žutic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5174	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. I ask the government what it means to take against anti-Serb acts of open Separatism of the duchy leagues? Open breaking of Serbia, through the emphasis of the statehood of Vojvodina, the Serbian government seems to be not very excited. The historians know that the present-day Vojvodina Brozova, an anti-Serbian plant, was created as an anti-Serbian autonomous project, which was meant to provide the ideological and cultural integrity of the Hamburg countries and be a springboard for the spread of Croatia's great. It is not any Serbian Vojvodina, which was created in 1848, on the bright traditions of the Serb people's struggle for territorial autonomy in Austria. It is absurd that today, in a small Serbian state, there is such a freak state territorial-political structure, which is the basic function of dividing Serbs to atoms. Each Serbian government should work to reduce the current large powers that Vojvodina has. It should be advocated for Serbia's regionalisation, to popularise the old Serbian historical regions: Banat, Baka, Baranja, Srem, Machva, Šumadija etc. Each serious state would take measures to protect the state, through arrest, processing and banning the work of anti-state separatist elements. Envious are the successes of the duchy separatists. They quietly broke Serbia's unique information space by bringing Serbia's Radio-Television into line with Serbia, creating Vojvodina television. It was done in a semi-lligal way, the unpunished Chank treading board with an RTS sign completely succeeded. Further, cultural and institutional separatism has been achieved through the smooth functioning of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. Furthermore, the duchy flags hang undisturbed, joyfully fluttered and await the declaration of the Republic of Vojvodina. Next, the Dukean anthem is playing in local sports competitions, and gods are spreading. The last youth, the League and Youth Initiative, are playing with passports. It's just a joke, as their leader stands out. However, the present, to God's naive, passport rattling can turn into a clinking weapon. The junior leagueman, like any unbridled youth, loves naughty games, but on a liberal-democratic warrant. For the leader of the leaguers, they are only innocent symbols, to which the province is entitled under the Constitution. It's just amazing. As the final phase of Serbia's dissociation, modelled by the creation of the Comintern nations, Macedonians and Montenegrins, I expect the establishment of a sectarian duchy church, with ideological-religious elements of Satanism. It is a sinister fact that duchy separatism is being conducted according to the Croatian model. Paroles are heard about the economic exploitation of Vojvodina -- a duke's wallet in the Duke's pocket, as it used to be -- of the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. At the outcry that it is about creating an independent state of Vojvodina, Canak, like the old days, Stjepan Radic, innocent, as a Danish maid, says it is only about benign, harmless autonomy and regionalisation of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5175	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic reported, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5176	I'm reporting under article 100. Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, you have violated my dignity and dignity of the National Assembly because you are in a moment... I did go too far, I apologize to the MPs, but you should have seen that with attention and very argumentative talk about one of the criminals in the ranks of the government, about Dr. Milorad Todorovic, who for the sixth day has already been in the village of Šilovo in front of the House of Culture, Colonel Zivojin Dzaklic retired in the hunger strike. He called on all the citizens of Kosovo Pomorev and all the people who know – just as Mrs Sanda Raskovic-Ivić knew during her visit, before she was removed from the post – that it was such a man and knew about his machinations of the money of Serbian citizens and what he received from the Cypriot occupation authorities. I forgot to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the people, and to you as coalition partners of the party that promotes Dr. Todorovic, that he recently became an adviser to Slobodan Samardzic. If such a man will make us preserve Kosovo and Metohija and if he should defend us, he better not defend us. Mr. Jocicu, you as vice president of the Democratic Party of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica, who knows very well the way of this man, and also your MPs and all people, the people of Kosovo Pomoravlje and Kosovo and Metohija, must do something immediately, because it is a matter of the life of a man who, behold, has been insisting on his demands for the sixth day, but also of all the people down there who cannot tolerate such terror. If someone started since 2001, it was the first crumb of power he had received, to put such pressure on people, to force people to engage in occupation institutions, and otherwise they have no business, from porters through nurses, through all doctors working in the House of Health whose director... He is now in charge of all the health care in Kosovo and Metohija and I do not need to remind you, Mr Jocic, that we have found and had this evidence by criticising the abuses, machinations and theft of items from the Co-ordination Committee budget. Mr. Vukic and counterpart Kragovic repeatedly spoke for the assembly speaker that there was no home of health made, that instead they paid 350 or 400 thousand marks for septic caves, at the time, from the budget. This is still unsustainable. The terror of a man in a situation where we call for general unity, the consensus of all political parties, is something that you must prevent, because this is possible to drive out these demands not only Mr. Colonel Živojin Jaklic, but also all the citizens of Šilov and everyone living in Kosovo Pomoravlje, and believe me that they have the same opinion, because the bad voice is heard far away, and those people who have never seen him live and live in some other places in Kosovo and Metohija. I'm asking you, Mr. President, to do something about it. It's an alarming situation down there; I guarantee you now, that we can go to the village of Shilovo, that the whole village has risen to its feet, that the people have gathered around Colonel Zivojin to support him and ask that the Government of the Republic of Serbia react urgently, and you as president of the National Assembly, because that is something that no one there can stand and tolerate anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5177	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic called, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. The most prestigious cultural and educational event in Serbia -- "Wolves of Days" in Trsic, is being held these days. The Serbian Ministry of Culture helped with 450,000 dinars, while the Ministry of Regional Development and Economy with 4.5 million dinars. I am now asking – how is it possible that in a country where culture stands out below one percent, therefore we also place our country in non-cultural countries in the world, there are unbalanced funds in one ministry for different needs more than they are able to spend? On Monday, Mr. Gavrilovic scheduled a session of the Committee on Culture which, among other things, has a theme -- the Cultural Balance for next year. I thank you for that and this will be the topic at that session. "Wolves of Days" in Serbia have special significance. Not by the fact that this event is being opened only by the Secretary of State. If someone doesn't know who Vuk Karadzic is eventually, it's the uncle whose picture is in the first-class Bucharest on the last-end page. So many publishers of Bucharest and education in Serbia value Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic. And if someone doesn't know what a bum is, it's that booklet that explains the notion of state symbols in the following way: there's a picture of the Vatican on the first side, and on the right is the state symbols of Serbia. This composition is completely incompatible in historical, cultural and any other sense. It was issued by the private firm "Eduka" in Serbia. I demand an explanation from the Ministry of Education as possible, whose intention it is and what someone wanted to accomplish by explaining to the Serbian champions the concept of state symbols and the treatment of Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic. Either to open an academic debate on whether Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic is big, whether he was a reformer, or, as some say, he did great evil to the Serbian language and to the Serbian letter. So, let's open the discussion, report on it, so that Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic can either be kicked out of the barrel or put him first, so that it's normal and logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5179	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic and then MP Aleksandar Vukic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5180	Thank you, Mr. President. You are ignoring the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 225, and the right of the MP to be informed of all matters relating to the performance of his parliamentary function. I asked you why you didn't schedule elections for the SO Smedereva committee until today. The government introduced a temporary administration in November 2006, it has already been 10 months. Since the moment you were elected president of the National Assembly, it's been seven months. What are you waiting for? I asked you a very simple question, and you're giving me an answer – it's a complex question. Well, Mr. President, in Article 113. The Law on Local Self-Government states: "The President of the National Assembly shall hold elections for the committees within three months of the day of the disbanding of local self-government units", there is no question of complexity. Call the election, why do you hesitate? You provide us with information through the media that elections for the president of Serbia are very important, the Constitutional Law must be respected, etc. Why don't you just let people in local self-government decide who's going to represent them? Is this a state problem that in one unit of local self-government elections will be called, what will be the elections? You will see in the coming days, it will appear, I will do it here on behalf of the SPS, that there are such units in Serbia, and what is their number, where the government, without respecting the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the Constitution is explicit, must respect political and national representation... I told you, in July, the government introduced a party that did not pass the censorship in the local elections. Tell me what the point is. So, the government illegally, unconstitutionally makes a decision, and you keep your mouth shut. This is not about state affairs, it is not about Kosovo and Metohija, to explain the higher reasons. Mr. President of the Oliver Dulic National Assembly, I ask of you, the explanations were until yesterday, and since you didn't give an explanation yesterday, I ask you to call an election for the SO Smedereva committee. There was an emergency administration in November 2006. It's been 10 months since forced administration was introduced. The law allows for the possibility of a temporary organ for three months. After that, elections are being debated. There is an exception, elections will not be called if the unit of local self-government remains less than six months until the end of the term. So local self-government got a temporary organ in November, 10 months ago. That doesn't work either. Mr. Dulic, don't explain "complex reasons" to me, but get a pen and sign that paper that allows the citizens of Smederevo municipality to choose their own committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5181	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that everyone's been angry since this morning, so I can move on to what I've asked as a question, and you haven't answered, Mr. President of the National Assembly. I see some have reiterated my insistence yesterday, so I'd like you to answer those questions immediately after I'm finished. How is it possible that we have the first session of the National Assembly without having a debate on the governor of the NBS? That's question number one. How is it possible that in this agenda we don't have a choice of judges of the Constitutional Court? That's question number two. Both are foreseen by the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since I see that you are a prominent legalist, as well as other representatives of your party, so whenever you need in internal coalition conflicts you use the Constitutional Law, I ask you to explain to me how it is possible to violate this legal act, which, however, in the hierarchy of legal acts is not the highest, the Constitution is higher, but it serves to enforce the Constitution. I'm interested in telling us that it's possible that these two things aren't on the agenda today, and are you planning on putting all the points on the agenda for the next session of the military law, on defence, on the President of the Republic, on cassation courts, on local self-government, on the territorial organisation, or will it be at some third, fourth or tenth session, and then the Constitutional Law will not be respected again? For the sake of Serbian citizens, I want to say, I know that Mr. Dulic is not all-powerful and that this depends much more on the government than on him. As you can see, Serbian citizens have come to the conclusion very quickly that the Constitutional Law is not a sacred letter, although by this morning and yesterday you swore that it was and that such acts should not be broken. You released a sea of analysts, critics, on-call smart guys from your ranks, who, by the way, didn't even read the Constitutional Law. Usually when they go to those TV shows of yours, ask them to read the Constitutional Law, ask them to know something about what they're talking about. I'm afraid this is how they become very unconvinced and that people are beginning to realize that it's a common con. I wouldn't tell them their names, I wouldn't give them any meaning, but it's not good for you who keep referring to that constitutional law. So now we've seen that constitutional law is neither important nor existing. I would ask you to explain that to me, Mr. Dulic, since I am quite certain that there is no rational explanation for these questions. My last question, Mr. Dulic, was asking him several times to Mr. Markovic, I asked you yesterday: I have a report on the financial operations of the energy mafia and financial and banking affairs related to their business, so I have this report adopted by DSS MPs G17 plus and the SPS, who clearly said there is no mafia business, that everything is fine, that there are no problems there, that it is difficult to determine. (President: Time. I also have my own opinion, as a member of the Survey Committee, and I claim that the mafia has taken a lot of money from Serbian citizens, that Serbian citizens have been damaged by tens of millions of euros. For those tens of millions of euros, we could have had every child in schools in Serbia to supply computers, we could've known how many hospitals to build, we could've known how many kindergartens for our children to build. (President: Time. ) I would ask you, if this is not too much of a problem, that we behave in accordance with both good customs and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am counting on this National Assembly meeting to have continuity in relation to the previous meeting, so let's put this report on the agenda, to discuss whether there are energy mafias in Serbia or not, who are participants in this business, who are their political assistants; to see who and how will divide the money from Buk White, to see who and today share the money with Milorad Dodik and many others from the Serbian authorities, who joined the DS, and who in the DSS could do their big and wide jobs, so that our people are glegonically saying that they are ending. Let's see, Mr. Dulic, I'm sure that's what you're interested in, too, from where Milorad Dodik gave the villa to Dedinj and why the Serbian government signed the grant to Milorad Dodik as its first solution, as soon as it was formed. (President: Mr. Wolfie, I have to interrupt you because you've taken too much time to ask this question. We understood him well, and I'll give you the answers. I thank you, Mr. Dulic. I would ask you, first question: the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, why it is not on the agenda; second question: Constitutional Court judges; third question: the energy mafia. To end with this, I will, like Katon, the second time in ancient Rome, who said: "At the same time, I think that Cartagena should be destroyed"; I believe what Tomislav Nikolic said - that Russia flourished when she replaced Boris, so it is time for Serbia to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5183	There'll be a very quick opportunity for that. What I must tell you, the law governing the Constitutional Court, the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of its decisions, the National Assembly will take a sitting where judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. Since these laws are not yet in the process, I expect they will be at the next session, and then there will be a choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. As for the election of the governor of the NBS, he will also be at the next session. I hope that the next session will begin with two very important things from the Constitutional Law, which is the election of the governor of the NBS and the election of the Constitutional Court judges, and before that we must pass laws that define their work. We are obliged to complete our obligation under the Constitutional Law until the end of the first session. We're in an emergency situation because we haven't had a regular spring session, but we've worked so far by putting something out of the Constitutional Law every session. As regards strict compliance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law, you are just witnessing that I interrupted the First Session because there was nothing in the Constitutional Law on it and that I strictly adhere to the provisions of the Constitutional Law, as far as possible at this point, since we do not have the kind of legislative activity by the Government that is necessary to do much more effectively. That's my answer and I hope you're satisfied. As for your initiative, I've received a list of all the laws that are currently in the assembly procedure. In addition to the laws proposed by the government, there is, among other things, a report by the Committee of Auditors. At one of the next sessions, when we meet all the obligations of the Constitutional Law, when we pass all these important laws, I'm sure you agree that the laws that allow us to go to elections are important, we will certainly have a report from the Commission that you led. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: We have the agenda, and there is neither the Constitutional Court nor the Governor.) ) On the agenda of this session you have the choice of audit institution from the Constitutional Law. You have to understand one thing, we have to have something in the Constitutional Law at every session. I respect that as much as possible. I've got to go in a row. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Verica Radeta, and then the People's Messenger Vladan Batic, and then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5184	Mr. Dulic, this answer you gave Mr. Vukic, since he said he would no longer speak according to the Rules of Procedure, on this subject, is something that is truly scandalous. This is both insolence and insolence on your part. I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, to warn you of Article 27, point 3 and 4) and, of course, Article 100, paragraph 3, which was spoken of by Mr Alexander Vukic. Yesterday, Mr. Dulic, you ignored the MPs all day and I see you're doing it today. Yesterday there were multiple violations of the Rules of Procedure, the MPs warned you of these injuries, you had no idea that you would answer in accordance with Rule 100(3) of this Rules of Procedure. You, about, don't care what we say here, you make your own, you're ordered to do as you do. Yesterday I asked you who ordered you, Mr. Dulic, to permanently violate the Constitution, or constitutional law. You didn't answer. What you've just tried to answer to Mr. Wolf, I repeat, is scandalous. Where it says so, Mr. Dulic, that you are fulfilling your obligation by putting on each session some of what you were obliged to do at the first session. Indeed, such an explanation, from whoever you got it from, is below each level. You insult the intelligence and the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Dulic. You already started applying the working version of the Rules of Procedure that Milos Todorovic wrote to you from Cesid yesterday, and it is obvious that you are doing so today. I noticed that yesterday, but I thought you might have made a lapus, so I didn't warn you. Since you've been doing it today since we started working, it's obviously not an accident. As once Gašo Knezevic, when applying a law that was not passed, did not come into force but applied, so he said, so do you apply the working version of this Rules of Procedure. Yesterday you said you received some information from the Secretary General of the National Assembly. The assembly doesn't have a secretary general, it has a secretary. Today, you took away Natasa Jovanovic's word, also in line with the working version of the Rules of Procedure that was never in front of the MPs. Today I received a call, the envelope says - urgently, as a MP, it says, in accordance with Article 78(2), when the draft laws and amendments to the laws are discussed at the committee's session, the applicants of these proposals and amendments, or their authorised representatives, are also invited to the session. For what reason did we receive and who received the invitation to the meeting of the National Assembly Security Committee? You are also under obligation, pursuant to Article 27(1) point 4), to take care of it. It's just that since you're the president of this House, Mr. Dulic, you don't know who's drinking or paying. You ignore the MPs, you ignore the Rules of Procedure. At first, I thought you didn't understand him, that you didn't teach him, and now I understand that you're abusing him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5185	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you remember, on several occasions, before the end of the first National Assembly session, I insisted that the election of judges of the Constitutional Court be made, at least on the list of the President of the Republic, and especially on the list of the National Assembly. Mr. Dulic, you've made some kind of promise, at least as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned. I asked that question yesterday. You didn't give an explanation. I've asked him today, you haven't given an explanation, you've again given an easy explanation for Mr. Vukic's repeated question and insistence. That explanation is inadequate. In accordance with the provisions of Article 100, we could ask that the Assembly be declared, but now, Mr. Dulic, you've made a promise again. You promised that the next session of the National Assembly on the agenda would be the election of judges of the Constitutional Court and the election of governors of the National Bank. That is why I will not ask parliament to plead, but I am asking you to ask yourself a question of your own responsibility if you again deceive the MPs and citizens of Serbia. Mr. Dulic, tell me - if there is no choice at the next session of the National Assembly on the agenda for judges of the Constitutional Court and the election of governors of the National Bank, I will resign. It's a responsibility, because, Mr. Dulic, as president of the Assembly, you are by definition the chief founder. You, as president of the National Assembly, must at every opportunity, in every situation defend the Constitution. If you can't do that, if you can't do it because of party, party, political, coalition and other interests, then you didn't deserve to be the president of the National Assembly. I ask you to respect what you have promised and honor the two main gestures of democracy, responsibility and exchangeability. I'm going to ask you what I just asked you -- when there will be a national initiative on the agenda from a year and a half ago to amend the Law on Broadcasting, to lift the television subscription, so that RTS does not every day threaten Serbian citizens to pay what they don't have to pay, because it's unconstitutional, but we're going round again, we don't have a Constitutional Court to say it. Finally, something that hasn't run out of time yet, but I warn you that this is a very complex matter – when there will be a set of laws on courts and prosecutors on the agenda, because now we have an entirely subjugation judiciary, which blindly (honoring exceptions, I am talking about the top of the judicial institutions), absolutely enforces the powers of the authorities. Various selective procedures are being conducted in various so-called so-called ‘supervisory procedures’. affairs. That's also what we're going to talk about. It's a topic that has to be quickly found on the agenda, because our judiciary is in one sad state, our employees in the judiciary are in a very difficult situation, because we don't know who's drinking or who's paying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5187	Thank you. Mr Batic, as I said, today's last public debate is about the Constitutional Court Act and the Constitutional Court Procedure Act. That law, according to information I have, should be found at the next cabinet session and entered into the assembly procedure. The next session will begin with the Constitutional Court Act and the Constitutional Court Procedure Act. I hope that by then we will have a round list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges that the Assembly will propose to the president, since we have received from the president a list of candidates from which we should elect five judges of the Constitutional Court, and the whole procedure should be conducted at the same session. As for the election of governors, during this or next week the Law on the National Bank of Serbia will be in the government, and after the adoption of the law at the next session will be the choice of governors. I am talking to you about strict compliance with the provisions of the Constitutional Law, or the fact that at this point in the assembly procedure, we do not have laws on the basis of which we could carry out these appointments. I'll make sure there's one myself. You are witnessing that so far no session has started without anything from appointments or laws defined by the Constitutional Law, and so it will be in the future. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5188	Mr. President, when I reported to the Rules of Procedure and reminded you of the affairs of your jurisdiction, I did not use any ugly, incorrect, incorrect word or claim concerning the situation in the local self-government and state of the Smederevo municipality. Nevertheless, you do not respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, do not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and make a distinction between the MPs. You didn't find it appropriate to say one word about my questions, so shut up. Tell us something. Tell me you're not familiar with this problem as president of the National Assembly. Tell me, as president of the National Assembly, you haven't had time for that since you've done state affairs. Tell us the minister has not informed you that there is such a case in local self-government units. Tell them the service has not prepared anything for your condition in the Smedereva Municipality or anything else. Say you don't care how the local self-government units operate. Say it simply means nothing to you that one decision has been made that is not in accordance with the Constitution. Say it's none of your business what the law prescribes and what you have to do, and you won't do it. Say something. Say something, the citizens of Smederev are working. Say something to the congregation because each one in his own way is trying to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly. Our words can be spoken by some greater or less tonality, but if they're correct, there's no reason to avoid answers, neither you nor anyone else. I asked you why you didn't call the election yesterday in local self-government units where conditions were obtained by law. And that's some answer, but there's something we need to hear today. Tell me, I'll get you the information tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Tell me why you don't respect the Law on Local Self-Government and don't explain these big state issues and things. One unit of local self-government, the Smederevo Municipality Assembly, is the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in November 2006, ten months ago, introduced a forced administration and formed a larger one, that several months ago it changed that decision and, contrary to the Constitution, put representatives of the party who did not cross the censorship in the local elections. Do you think this illegality should last? Do you think this anti-constitutional solution should last? Tell us something. You have the authority to, as far as today, call elections for council members of the Smederevo Municipality. You have authority, you don't need a big consult or anything. No one in this assembly, not in this state, and no one in the Department of Local Self-Government is allowed to tell you anything because you respect the law. Tell us if you respect the law or don't respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5189	Thank you very much. I can only tell you that I will give you information during today and you will get it tomorrow, if you don't mind. That's my answer. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5190	Dear MPs, I received an answer to my question when I found out from this pay phone that Serbs in Subotica are at risk and that in Subotica, as members of Serbian nationality, we are not asking for protection from Belgrade, but only that Belgrade treats us equally or respects us as members of minorities. I got the answer where it was found that the court in Subotica took away 200 acres of land by private company Rasadnik and assigned it to the municipality. The Rasadnik was complaining to the municipality. The first municipality court in Subotica respected this appeal, and, since the control of the Privatisation Agency found that the 'Rasadnik' increased its so far from 10 hectares to 45 hectares, 2 hectares from now on, one and a half hectares of pears and other cultures, it was found that the 'Sadnik' should remain in the possession of the country. Following the annulment of the First Municipal Court decision in Belgrade, the Ministry of Agriculture has again filed a request to withdraw the country and a verdict is made overnight at the Municipal Court in Subotica, where the country was taken away on 11 January 2006. What's going on? The Ministry has informed me that they know that the taken country has been returned. How come the Ministry and the Government don't know about this second verdict, where the country's repossessing the 'Storm'?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5191	Thank you very much. People's MP Petar Jojic came to the floor, and let the MP of the people prepare Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to discuss amendments to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. In the first part of my presentation, I'd just like to draw your attention and point out how it's regulated in parallel law. Nationality is a legal expression of the belonging of individuals to a particular country. Nationality requires a state and individual who enjoys the status of a citizen of certain rights and responsibilities, although these rights are not identical in certain systems. They usually include political, civil and socio-economic rights, which the state is obliged to guarantee, and which correspond to certain responsibilities of citizens, e.g. A military obligation and another. How do you gain citizenship in parallel law? Citizenship is achieved by law, naturalization and option. With regard to the acquisition of citizenship under the law of a particular state, there are three groups of legal systems: countries where it is acquired at birth, and whether a child acquires the citizenship of his parents, the acquisition by origin and blood, or the country in which he was born - the principle of territoriality; countries where citizenship is acquired by place of residence after a certain time; countries in which two previous ways are combined. Achieving by birth, origin, blood, is mainly applied in European countries. Let's see how it's regulated in Anglo-Saxon law, that is, in the United States, Great Britain and Wales, and in the Scandinavian countries. In the United States and Great Britain, as well as in the Scandinavian countries, the principle of origin is combined with the principle of territoriality, with one or the other. The acquisition of citizenship under the law includes cases of acquisition on the basis of international contracts, due to changes in state borders, legislation, adoption and marriage. Naturalisation creates citizenship on the basis of a request from a foreigner and a legal act by a state body in a single authorisation. The option creates a declaration of the will of an interested person who is in a situation to define between two or more citizenships. It's a special case, so-called. the re-integration of citizenship or reintegration, for which additional conditions are required in relation to naturalisation. Nationality ceases under the law in the following cases: marriage to a foreigner, the law of a foreigner, the completion of civic duties during the absence from the country and the change of state borders; layoff, contrary to naturalisation; denial, which is usually subject to legal conditions; withdrawal by a unilateral act of state authority. Due to certain cases that some legal systems allow, there is a possibility that one person has more citizenship, so-called. Bipathrides, while under certain circumstances a person may find himself in a stateless situation, so-called apatrides. For the citizens of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia there was Yugoslav citizenship, as well as republican citizenship. Under the 1963 Constitution, a Yugoslav citizen could not be deprived of citizenship, away from the country or extradited. Under the 1964 SFRJ Citizenship Act, Yugoslav citizenship was derived from origin, birth on the territory of Yugoslavia and on the basis of international contracts, and ended with layoff, denial, confiscation and consent to international contracts. The loss of Yugoslav citizenship also leaves republican citizenship at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the bill of amendments and additions to the law, I would like to point out the following. We run out of 250-300,000 people in Montenegro, and without much of our people who wanted the SCG state union, including the single state of the Serb people and so on. unique citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the limited time that Serbian Radical Party MPs have, I will talk about this in the upcoming amendments, and explain some other views in international law, and also in relation to the SRS' views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5193	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5194	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a Law on Citizenship which, unfortunately, does not entirely bring all those solutions that we expected regarding this very important matter. Essential issues plagued by citizens, primarily Serbian nationalities, who have escaped from the former SFRJ republics under persecution from Croatia and BiH, and what is very current about the citizens of Montenegro, could be resolved by accepting amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. As for the Krajisniks themselves, which I would like to say more about, many of these people have been housed in collective accommodations for years, some for more than a decade, in unconditional rooms, left at the mercy of the state's queen who didn't want to think too much of them. You have listened to all the problems that are plagued by Krajisniks who cannot return to Croatia and in an easy and easy way come to the documents they need to achieve this right in the Republic of Serbia, so that they can exercise the right to gain our citizenship. More than half of the Krajisniks to check out in the military sections of Croatia must not do so because they risk harassment, persecution, arrest and who knows what else, what has already happened, and that is not an assumption. The high taxes Croatia has imposed on obtaining these documents are also a major obstacle for citizens who rightly want to realise it. Our country must find a way to simplify these procedures and help its citizens to get into the citizenship of their country of origin, which they really want. Also, this should refer not only to citizens living in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, the SFRY, but also to all citizens around the world who say they want to recognise the Republic of Serbia as their own country and, of course, are Serbian nationalities. We have a situation that the state has introduced the price list before, as the SCG state union, that, in fact, our citizens living in EU countries should pay 500 euros for the introduction to citizenship. In Australia it's $817 in Australia, in America it's $600, in Switzerland 845 francs. This has particularly affected citizens living in our region, where the standard is much lower than in EU countries. For these reasons, in a very small number, they compete for our citizenship. There are others abroad who have never come to the queen, and they want to see Serbia, but the state seems to try not to allow them to do so. We have paid a lot of attention to the citizens of Montenegro who want to have citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, but this must be achieved in the way that the Serbian Radical Party predicted, because if we make it possible for everyone, then we will reward those who advocate separatism, those who clearly said they do not want to live together with Serbia. We must try to protect people, our people, which is the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Serbia, because Article 13. The constitution obliges the Republic of Serbia to protect the rights and interests of its citizens abroad and to develop and improve the relations of Serbs with the country of origin. How is this going to do better than exactly how the SRS proposes? It is precisely the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, each MP in this House, to fight for his people, to fight that as many citizens of Serbian nationality as possible have the right to our citizenship, to gather our people as all countries in the world do, not to reject it. Speaking of what the work of the Republic of Serbia, although not directly related to citizenship, yesterday we had news that the 2009 University Company had concluded a contract with Vartex from Varazdin to make this company an exclusive supplier of clothing and footwear for our athletes and all representatives of the University, without any tender for representatives of the Republic of Serbia, for our country. So this is a shame. Is there no textile industry to develop in Serbia? This is what the state must worry about, and as far as citizenship is concerned, I think the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party were quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5195	Thank you. The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and let the MP of the people prepare Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after three years of the adoption of the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, we are forced to change individual members of this law. The reason is that there is no longer a SCG state union, but at the same time this is an opportunity for the Republic of Serbia to resolve once and for all the relationship between the Serbian state and Serbs who remained outside Serbia's borders after the break-up of the SFRY, or the state union, as well as Serbs in the diaspora. Many nations have their own countries of origin, but they also have their own countrymen in other countries. These countries have made it possible for their citizenship laws to allow them some kind of citizenship, double, so that they can overcome their problems more easily. The state thus became the protector of every nation, wherever it was. Many national minority communities in the countries of Europe and the world are now surviving thanks to the support of their queen. It's just that these people don't feel alone and they're not rejected. In this case, Serbs outside Serbia will be paved the way for easier employment in Serbia, easier social care, schooling children, protection of human rights in the queen, etc. Simply put, a Serb from Benkovac or Banja Luka must not be treated in Serbia as a foreigner. Let us not forget that today the Serbian people outside Serbia are going through a new goal again. Serbs are at risk of human rights in almost all emerging countries in the Balkans, starting with employment, representation in state authorities, building infrastructure in Serbian environments, as well as allowed space in state media for Serbian-language emissions, up to educational programmes for Serbian students. The picture is devastating. In addition, if we add frequent terrorism and abuse of Serbs, burning property, threats even to children, destroying cultural heritage in front of Europe, the situation is even worse. On paper are citizens of a country that is all but a country that respects and respects them. The Serbian state should now enter the scene and accept the submission of the Serbian Radical Party's amendment. Thus, members of the Serb people outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia would find themselves under the protection of the country of origin and would certainly change their attitude towards them in that country. The number is not small, although someone who will see a great Serbian plot in it will find itself again, tips of the past. When other countries do so, it is okay, and some EU or Pentagon secret directive is likely to be applied to Serbia, to lead to the end of the policy of national death and apathy. In article 16, something is trying with the term "Montenegrin citizens with registered residence in Serbia... "and so on. It's not enough and it's, in a way, maybe even funny. Where is the protection of citizens of Montenegro who have pleaded as Serbs seen here? You can't see it anywhere. Anyone could have a place in Serbia, even those who swear to Montenegro and the ideology of Sekula Drljevic. It is precisely the most Serbs in Montenegro who have always lived and who live and today on their hearths and who never had the need to have any other residences, and because of them should accept what the Serbian Radical Party has proposed. Not only because of them, but also because of Serbs in Skopje, Kumanovo, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Knina, Karlovac, Podgorica, Sydney, Toronto and wherever they are. Why would a Serb student from Kordun, Bileca or Skopje Montenegro have fewer rights than some student from Ćupre, Paracino, Valjev, Užica, who, for example, is studying in Belgrade? To avoid confusion, the rights of national minorities are in no way violated by this law. They must be respected, in accordance with the standards of international conventions, but every country, including Serbia, must think about the survival of its own people. Take, for example, the final case of the bishop of the Milosevic Filaret: at the border between the two Serbian states, the bishop of the Serbian Orthodox Church was stopped, only because some monster from the Hague prosecutor's office wanted to tailor the Serbian bishop's global obligations. Those Turks couldn't stop that either. The most serious insult experienced by the SPC, and the Episcope Filaret himself, is precisely the one done by Montenegro's Interior Minister Jusuf Kaloperovic, who allegedly tried to solve the problem. Just imagine, in order to gain Montenegrin citizenship, that is, to enter Montenegro, the bishop is, no less or less, proposed to marry! That's how they treat Serbs, whether it's an ordinary man or a bishop. Also, when it comes to bishops, let's remember what only Macedonian authorities have done with Prime Minister Jovana. Such humiliations are experienced wherever they are. Finally, as it enters Montenegro today with only a ID card, it is not the goodwill of Montenegrin separatists and authorities, but concerned that the introduction of passports would bring their earnings to zero during the tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5197	The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Ognjen Mihajlovic. Here you are, Ognjen, and let the MP of the people be prepared Slavisa Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5198	I'm sorry Mr. Jocic isn't here right now, because we have one question that's addressed to him. He's out, he's got some cell phone call, who knows what it's about, he might finally be ready for that amendment that promises us already, here's another day. He mentioned it would be introduced into the bill and something similar to what Serbian radicals have proposed. He announced it, and I would like him to explain to us, there is no procedure, and that is correct, but I would like him to explain to me what this is about, whether Serbian citizenship will get Serbs and whether they have anything to hope for, or, as usual, Tadic and Kostunica have traveled to Banja Luka again for propaganda reasons alone. When it comes to something concrete, of course, it will not be done. I fear this will happen with this law and that it will be only one official paper structure, of which the Serbian people will absolutely have no use. Serbian citizens and Serbs will remain absolutely unprotected, not only in Serbia, as is the case today, but, worse still, they will be exposed to terror as they are being exposed today in Kosovo and Metohija. We treat them truly as apathrides, although they still live in a single Serbia. Or, Serbs in Croatia, who are the people of the second row that was thrown out of the constitution, where there was a constitutional people; or, you can only see what is happening to the Republic of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. We Serbian radicals think that the introduction of our amendment to this law is the last chance to do something good to protect the Serbian people. So this isn't just a question of citizenship, it's a question of survival. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5199	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavisa Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry there is no Mr. Jocic. Today we continue, by emergency procedure, the debate on the Law on Citizenship. We see from this material that it is the law on the citizenship of Montenegrins living in Belgrade. Why? Here, for two reasons. The first reason is that Montenegrin citizens would not become non-citizens, and the second is to allow the smooth work of state authorities as it stands in the material. I'd like to spread this other reason a little bit. You're saying, for this second reason, that much or a good part of the functions in Serbia's state bodies are citizens of Montenegro. Mr. Jocic, you're here in the O.R., is that correct? Here, it is widely known that in Serbia, directors and executives are primarily citizens of Montenegro. If you think that I am wrong and since you say it is not true, ask Mr. Tadic, Bulatovic, Hamovic, Lazarevic, BK, Zorica Radovic... So are you, Mr. Jocic, where are you from? (Dragan Jocic: Belgrade.) Half of Serbia's state summit is either Montenegrin or originally from Montenegro. That's not the essence of this bill. The point is that Montenegrin citizens have the right to become Serbian citizens only with a written statement. I ask the question, Mr. Minister, what about the 250,000 people who came from space west of Drina, from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska? What are we going to do, Mr. Jocic, with our people from that space? How can they exercise their right to citizenship, and why can't they write a statement and solve their problem for months and years? Mr. Jocicu, do you approve of those who take 400-500 euros per citizenship to speed it up and finish it? Why are these citizens in second order? Why are all your and Tadic's countrymen worth more than they do? Here's an example: Paravignja Danica lives in Nova Pazova, Proleterska No. 4, and was born on 9 November 1933 in Croatia, Obrovac municipality. The old lady is 74 now. Mr. Jocic, I apologize if you're upset, but I'm bringing information from the field what the people say, and you check it out, so let us know. After the death of Mrs. Danica Paravinja's wife, she asked for citizenship because she has been living in Nova Paz for 50 years and needs citizenship for a new ID card; her old ID card is expired, and her ID card needs to be received so she can receive a pension, as well as to take out a new health card so that she can be treated. The MUP refused to issue a resolution on citizenship and asked for a reconstruction of birth certificate copies. This is impossible to do in Croatia, as the reconstruction is done for born after 1945, and the lady was born 1933. To solve this, there must be a later entry into the birth book, which is a complicated process. She cannot go to Croatia because she is old and sick and has no document. She can't give anyone the authority to do it for her, because her ID's expired. So, insolvent is the problem. I repeat that she has lived in Serbia for an uninterrupted 50 years, and her family has been represented 300 years backwards as both Serbian and Orthodox. Mr. Jocicu, I ask the question how many citizens of Serbian nationality who have the same or similar problem as Mrs. Danica Paravinja? What did you do about it? Are you perhaps making a selection of who belongs and what kind of political option? Is political belonging to you in the adoption of such an important law for citizens who want Serbian citizenship in the first place? If that comes first, then put it in the law and let's read it and let's know what it's about. How is it that an Albanian who wants Serbian citizenship only has to write his name and last name and data on paper, surrender to the MUP and get citizenship through the link? There's talk in your department about this case, and I'd like you to check and inform this assembly. Why do only Serbs have problems getting citizenship in Serbia? You, Minister, are running away from Serbia and the Serbian people with such a proposal and forcing Serbs to take foreign citizenship. Whether you're behind this or someone who ordered you to do it, I don't know, but you're depriving the elemental rights of the citizens. The amendments of the Serbian Radical Party will solve the big problems of the citizens in connection with this law, and you will also solve your problems by getting involved from that doghouse that you are involved in with the bill of this kind, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5201	Thank you, Mr. Topalovic. Excuse me, Mr. Minister Jocic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5202	Mr. MP, I would like to ask you to provide what is related to your knowledge, if correct, of the persons who take the money and work citizenship to the Ministry of the Interior, and also to provide specific information regarding this latest case you have listed. Believe me, I'll do what you say. I'm expecting them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5203	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Jovan, if you'll excuse me, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Dragan Todorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I believe that for this time as long as you were at the head of the Ministry, you could at least be certain that corruption is one of the most serious forms of crime precisely because it is hard to prove, because to the most extent it takes place between two people without witnesses. It's familiar stuff. It's not just the problem of this current time and it's not just about getting citizenship, it's about a lot of things that citizens need. Asking the MP, who certainly has information from people who complain not only about citizenship, but also about many other papers in any other state administration that it's impossible to get them unless they give money for it... The MP has the opportunity to present this problem, and only if we want to lie here and say that there is no such problem, so let's say - that we can't show it means that it doesn't exist. Asking a MP is still a little too much. You're the head of the ministry to whom it's an obligation, a task to slowly eradicate it. If you are well-intentioned from this pay phone, we are not accusing you of contributing to it, but we ask you to pay sufficient attention to this information that you have received, to try to solve the problem, not to ask MPs to provide you with the information. (Dear Jocic, from the scene: if he knows.) ) He told you everything he knew from this pay phone. If you want to get to know each other further, you can take newspaper articles and look at, say, how the Albanians get our passports, and all the information you could read in the paper, Mr. Minister, about individual police stations, where it's already a stalking job. As I recall, some of the members of the Home Office were arrested for it. You're now wondering how the MP comes out and says that even when you get citizenship, you're also taking money. Do your best. There's no man to say, a person could've held back, better if she could've. So, Mr. Minister, you're doing your job according to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5205	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know that after the secession in our country, there was a huge shift in our population. That population shift someone experienced less, someone more, but it was terribly tragic. I know that the Serbian people also experienced this secession very difficult, that it was a tragedy and that it was terrible, but as a member of the Roma community, I want to tell you that we Roma today in Serbia are in the most difficult position, as regards economic, social, health, housing and all other areas. I know that the state has nothing against national minorities, and especially for the Roma, it has positive measures and positive attitudes, but individuals create a lot of problems and difficulties for us, and therefore the Roma people today are on the lowest scale of social misery, to say vividly. As far as citizenship is concerned, the Roma lived on entire SFRY territory. There were over 1.500,000 Roma in ex-Yugoslavia. Today we have about 800,000 Roma in our democratic Serbia. The Roma are scattered and there is no place, no city where there is no Roma. At the time of Milos Obrenovic, they said - where there are no gypsies, where there are no Roma, don't go there. Thank God, there are Roma everywhere in our democratic Serbia. Some live well, and some live very hard. Those who live well, they manage, are situationed. Those who live hard have contributed to the secession, has also contributed to the war on the territories where they were. After the signing of the Military and Technical Agreement, when the police, the Serb army and the Serb people withdrew and a vacuum formed, the Roma people did not Albanianise themselves. I spoke with all Roma representatives in Kosovo, in Peća, so all the presidents of Roma organisations and associations in Kosovo gave me the anger that they would not defile our history with the Serbian people. They really didn't defile her, and they're in Serbia now. When we look at how these Roma live... I have to say that those in Kosovo had big houses, they were businessmen and they lived very well. Today, the Roma live under Gazela, in Karaburma; we have about 168 unhygienic settlements. It's a terrible thing when a patriotic people, who because of the fate of our country and the Serbian people, were historically connected, and now, with the Serbian people... We don't have another country, this is our country, this is our country. The Serbian people are the brotherly people of the Roma people and of all national minorities in this Serbia. As a representative of Roma Serbia and vice president of the World Organisation of Roma, I know how Roma live in the whole world and in the countries around. Much scarier, with us there's a great democracy to how they live. I would ask the government, we live next to each other, we know how whoever lives, finally this government and this country must raise a question of Roma life, Roma problems, their further status in this country. The city government has done nothing to improve the position of the Roma people, even abused some major donations. I just want to say, a people without citizenship has no right in many areas and segments of our country, not in social terms, not in housing, not in education, and there is no right, if they have no citizenship, or as far as political integration is concerned in our country; apatrides, so on. A nation without a country... We have a state, we have a confession in our country and we have gained the status of a national minority. However, our country and how it respects the Roma people and all other national minorities, but from individuals we have great problems. I'll take that out. What do I want to say? I ask the State, please the National Assembly, to ask all competent institutions in our country to allow for a brief procedure, as regards the Roma and the Roma communities... Who will go now, please, to Kosovo to look for data where, what, how? We know he can't, they can't go Roma. We all know how Albanian people and Albanian separatists treat the Roma people, criminally. Therefore, the Roma people will not be able to use all their rights in our country from all those areas unless they have citizenship. Once again, I underline that certain ministries that issue citizenship should, in short procedure or, to say, make it possible, to a positive, affirmative extent, for the citizens of Roma nationality, because they have always been citizens and the state of Yugoslavia and the state of Serbia. I'll take a moment to speak to Mr. Jocic. Mr. Jocic, I don't know, we Roma don't make crime, we do petty things, and those who make big crime push Roma into crime. I spoke to the Minister of State and Local Self-Government Markovic, and I asked him to see me. You've got people on the National Council today who weren't criminals, but they're criminals. They got the money on purpose, didn't spend it on purpose. We've got Mr. Ljuan Koku who's been doing a trade, I've got these documents, he's still at the Ministry of National Minorities, he's getting big money, big projects, and there's no telling where they're going. We have other information on why he's being held there. Please, the people who have worked against the interests of the Roma people and the affirmation of our state must take a stand. In the National Council, you have criminals who are protected by the state. I've got all this information, and you, Mr. Jocic, have been informed that you've received that application, too. They have passed the mandate at the National Council, they continue to stick to it and seek again through some projects to get big money to be abused. I ask that it be seen and that it be removed and that the Assembly be appointed precisely because of the National Council of Roma, where people who deserve to lead the Roma people and affirm our country will be appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5207	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Avramovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. I want to take advantage of the minister's presence, Mr. Jocic, and ask a parliamentary question that I would like to get an answer right now, during today, because it is a situation that is not insignificant at all. I come from the Sava Venac municipality, where crime and corruption are something that is the basic craftsman of the government there. Mr. Minister, your party is there in the coalition with the Democratic Party; your members, more specifically officials who exercise power, are very well aware of what I'm about to say. What is incomprehensible and inexplicable to me is that the state, more specifically, is not responding in accordance with the law as it should, and therefore I'm going to ask a question about the SO Sava Wreath. So the president of the Sava Venac municipality, Tomislav Djordjevic, originally from Croatia, came to Serbia in the 1990s, took the position of President SO Savac. Meanwhile, a large number of criminal charges have been filed for abuse of official office, as well as for members of the municipal council. I wonder what he can do, if under investigation by the Second Municipal Court, to get out of the country, to fly, to get money out of the state of Serbia, although it is well known that you need a court confirmation that you are not under criminal procedure, more specifically that you are not being prosecuted. I would like to know one more thing: is it true that Deputy Attorney General Vlad Mihajlovic received an apartment from Djorđe Antel on the corner of Sanja Zivanovic and the Banjski victims, whether the merger of the judiciary... I apologize, Vlad Manojlovic, that's right. Is the merger of the judiciary of the Second Municipal Court and the Municipality of Savski Venac, through the President of the Second Municipal Court Ivona Lalovic, achieved through Djorđa Antel and through this property that he received, which I mentioned? Is there any evidence that he is a Croatian citizen, because he has an indication that he made a large amount of money, made by murky business in the Sava Venac municipality, and that he bought a huge property in Dubrovnik itself, in the immediate neighborhood of Willy Montgomery? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5209	Thank you to MP Milan Avramovic. By the way, that's my pet from the Savawere. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go. Before Momir takes his word, I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on the Security of the Republic Assembly will be held in the session break, in the blue lounge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizenship law is one of the fundamental laws a country must have. The Serbian state and the Serb people in particular, as the fall of the former Yugoslavia left much of the Serb people in separate, secluded republics without any rights. A part of the Serb people from Republika Srpska managed to keep their heads alive, to escape in front of the Ustasha knife in the queen of Serbia. Of course, by calculating that at least elementary rights, such as the right to citizenship, will be able to solve in their queen. Unfortunately, to this day a huge part of these refugees and displaced persons from Republika Srpska and other parts of Croatia have failed to resolve the issue of their citizenship. Not to mention how members of the Serb people in other republics go. Just to remind you that Bishop Jovan in Macedonia has twice been unjustly accused and unjustly convicted of time sentences, only because the bishop is a SPC. Let me remind you that one of the charges was that the money from the church donations was spent on building a church. We have come to the situation that this disintegration of more and more Serbian nationalities remains outside the borders, especially the last separatist action in which we have received another state, "stater", where 250 thousand Serbs remain outside that border. Of course, the state of Serbia, that the government had to urgently propose amendments and amendments to the old law and to emulate the Law on Citizenship. We don't mind. On the contrary, to Article 16, we believe this is all a technical order of the Law and that's all right. In Article 16. We allow the bill to be made available to those who have pushed the wheels into the Serbian state to have the right in a magical way to become citizens of Serbia. If it stays this way, one day Stipe Mesic, disappointed with Croatia's politics, will be able to come, and since he has ties to the Serbian nation, he will also be able to claim citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. With this law, if it remains this way, we allow Milo Djukanovic, after completing the tobacco business in Montenegro, to come and that, without apologising for secession of a part of the Serbian state, do not speak Serbian state, speak Serbian state, submit a request and become a Serbian citizen. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I will read this article 16. By the way, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted three amendments, but two are crucial and greatly improving the bill. However, when the minister said yesterday that the government also has an amendment that is identical with Mrs Verica Radete's amendment, we expected the amendment to come, so we would also vote for the amendment of the government, if it is identical. Article 16 says: "After Article 1 is added the position 2 which reads: The citizen of the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of this law, is also considered a Montenegrin citizen who on 3 June 2006 had a registered residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if he submits a written statement that he is considered a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a request for registration of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the "Monegrini" who have done this "state" (can't even have an aviation, because as soon as the plane leaves the runway, it's already crossing into the territory of another country), which has caused so much evil to the Serbian national being, they will be able to get citizenship, which means they will be able to use all the privileges. For example, their students will be able to use all the privileges used by students from Belgrade, Batajnica, Nis etc. They will be able to continue, just as Mr Topalovic said, here to use everything, using connections, because they are extremely connected to each other, will be able literally to act as if nothing had been done to the Serbian state and the Serb people. We are not meant to identify "montegrine" and "Serbs", and this is exactly what this member of the law says. For me, for the SRS, for the citizens of Serbia, anyone who has pleaded as a Montenegrin is the same and will have the same rights and the same status as Eskimo, as any citizen of any country in the world. We aim to preserve those who have pleaded as Serbs in Montenegro, those who think, breathe and write Serbian. Dear poet Momir Vojvodic, interpreting that all Montenegrins are actually Serbs, once said, "He who was born in Montenegro, and not a Serb, must be someone's bastard." We won't be interested in that. The SRS amendment reads: "The citizen of the Republic of Serbia, within the meaning of this law, is also considered a citizen of another country, a member of the Serb people, if he submits a written statement that he is considered a member of the Serb people and that the Republic of Serbia considers himself a state." Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if you are willing to adopt amendments to the SRS, which greatly improve this law and address the fundamental issues of the Serb people in all areas, the SRS will vote for this law. I know you're afraid of something that will eventually come in the next election. You're afraid of who these Serbian citizens will vote for. Maybe they'll vote for you. If you do the right thing, in the interest, they'll probably vote for you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when we are ready to send members of the electoral committees to Canada, America, Germany, you may have to be prepared to send members of the electoral committees to Cetinje, Niksic, Podgorica, but then. Serbia must not forget 250,000 Serbs in Montenegro. Serbia must not equalise those 250,000 Serbs with those who wore the crusaders, barjaks, celebrating the great victory and formation of the state of Montenegro. Serbia must not forget all Serbs in BiH, and I do not mean citizens of Republika Srpska, especially those from Republika Srpska. Serbia must not forget any Serb, wherever he was. So I urge you, Mr. Minister, to adopt the SRS amendment to Article 16 and finally bring this agony to an end around this law, which has been going on for two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5211	Since there are no more word statements on the lists of MPs, I ask before concluding a principled search whether anyone else has not used their right under Article 93. Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for the cold both for you and the citizens of Serbia. Seeing as the minister is willing to solve specific cases after Mr Topalovic's discussion, I think this matter should be simplified and therefore I would like you to hear one story. It may have taken a little while earlier, but I think this is a good time. More families of refugees and displaced persons from Kosovo live in hotel "Serbia" in Nisko Banja, located 15km from Nis. They should have moved out of the hotel by 30 June 2007 because the hotel was sold. They applied for apartments in Pasa Poljana, which are made from the SIRP programme. The apartments were supposed to be inhabitable by 9 May 2007. Four entrances were completed, the fifth one had some kind of dispute about the power lines being moved. As for the refugees and displaced persons living in the hotel "Serbia", there was only a family of Smiljanic, a four-member family with two underage children. They are from Bosnia, their son suffers from asthma and has been treated in Tirshovo, Belgrade since 1996. This family is the only family who, because of someone's whim, irresponsibility or ignorance, will be placed in a refugee camp in Sitcheva, in a bungalow that is only 9m2, without conditions for normal life, without wet knots, without bathrooms, and children will be forced to walk five kilometers to school. With this family, Mr. Minister, the only problem is the citizenship of these children's fathers. Although they have documentation to apply for renting an apartment, where refugees and social cases will be placed, only citizenship is a problem, as we have heard. It's the story of this family and who knows how many more. I would take this opportunity to ask if the information I have is correct. If so, answer me why, and if not, to answer me again. Is it true that only the Nishils for obtaining a visa must provide a form of M4, besides all the certificates they receive from the employer or director of the company to get out of the country. If it's not just Nishli, if it's any other city or municipality, and if the arches aren't the same for all of Serbia, I want to know why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5213	Thank you. Since no one wants a word anymore, I ask the minister if he wants a word. No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amending and Access Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe - CEFTA 2006. You've received a bill from the government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 149a point 3, and corresponding to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Serbian Radical Party – one hour, 37 minutes and 12 seconds, Democratic Party – one hour and 16 minutes, Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica – 56 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus – 22 minutes and 48 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 19 minutes and 12 seconds, Liberal Democratic Party MP Group – 13 minutes and 12 seconds, Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians - The Union of Sandzak - Roma Serbia's Union - Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes and 12 seconds, Vojvodina MPs - LSV, SVM–6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 149a(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. I would like to inform the MPs that the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party is a National MP, Jorgvanka Tabakovic. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5214	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on validation, namely ratification of the Free Trade Agreement in Southeast Europe, with CEFTA 2006 cut short, as the agreement was signed in 2006. It is a multilateral agreement on the free trade of Southeast European countries. The current 32 bilateral free trade agreements are replaced by this unique agreement. What I'm saying is that CEFTA was signed on December 19th, 2006. It was signed by eight customs territories: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Serbia, Montenegro and Umnik, as customs territory, I stress, for Kosovo's territory. Bulgaria and Romania also signed the agreement, but as they joined the EU in the meantime, they also stepped out of it. The agreement has so far been ratified by all signatories. We are the last parliament, the last government to ratify this agreement. But anyway, I think we'll do it in time, given that the First Ministerial Conference in Ohrid is held on September 28th. I hope that by that deadline Parliament will consider and ratify this very important document. What are the advantages of the CEFTA agreement? With all these countries, Serbia generates 30% of its exports and 8% of its total imports. In other words, we are the net exporter of this area. Serbia responds to the liberalisation of foreign trade and in general trade regimes with all these countries, given that we are a stronger economy and we can export more if we have fewer barriers. In other words, the benefits we give to others must be given to us, but we, as a stronger economy, are able to benefit you far better. This also suggests that the participation of CEFTA countries in Serbia's total exports at the moment is 30% and imports are 8%. In the first six months of this year, exports to CEFTA countries are growing far faster than imports, and this is a clear indicator that our economy will benefit unequivocally from this agreement. I would also like to say that this agreement replaces as much as 32 bilateral agreements, with the following regulation being applied: the level agreed on in bilateral agreements remains. In other words, no additional liberalisation measures are introduced on the date of the entry into this Agreement, but existing external trade agreements with CEFTA signatories are only being replaced. However, there are some newspapers here. The papers suggest that the establishment of a free trade zone in the region by 31.12.2010, meaning that the current amount of concessions from bilateral free trade agreements will be increased by that period. In other words, customs on one side and on the other, as agreed, and I have to say that the current level of protection is different from the different countries, and I'm going to talk about that later. Of course, the most sensitive issue is the protection of agricultural products. With the liberalisation of agricultural products, between CEFTA countries will start by 1 May 2009, so for some two years. Also, this agreement provides for technical barriers to trade to be removed by 31.12.2010, and the process of harmonisation will go and will be completed by that day. There are also appropriate competition rules to be applied to all companies, including public enterprises, in all CEFTA signatories of the agreement from 1 May 2010. Also, by 1 May 2010, all members should provide non-discrimination in the public procurement system. That means national treatment. In other words, all those on CEFTA territory from 1 May 2010 will be treated by a domestic bidder, e.g. Serbs in Croatia and Croats in Serbia. Until then, we have to train our businesses to be more competitive. On the other hand, this agreement allows so-called. diagonal cumulation, in other words, the possibility of exports to third countries under the preferential product regime made from components from different CEFTA countries, if the participation of these components is over 51%. The situation is now this: only the product containing over 51% of Serbia's territory includes domestic products. After ratification of the CEFTA agreement, all components from the territory of all eight areas enter into the treatment of domestic products, on the basis of which an appropriate preferential treatment for exports to a third country is obtained. What is the degree of liberalisation with individual CEFTA countries so far? First, with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, existing bilateral agreements have abolished customs duties on all products and we have a duty-free regime both with Macedonia and with BiH, with BiH not respecting the free trade agreement we had in the past. I'll talk about the problem later. Montenegro is subject to an existing situation in exchange, therefore, full liberalisation. We also have a duty-free regime with Montenegro. With Moldova almost all customs duties were lifted for 97% of the product, except for eight tariff items for which tariff quotas are scheduled at lower customs rates. With Croatia and Albania, customs should be abolished on all industrial products from 1 January 2007, while a much higher level of protection in agricultural products is, therefore, only 10% of agricultural products are on the liberal regime and 24% with Albania. This is the amount of product imported and exported without customs duties. Of course, negotiations will start under this approval agreement, possibly, of new concessions by 1 May 2009. So, I repeat once again, Serbia is at this time the second economy in force within the CEFTA countries; currently only Croatia has better performances. Of course, our task should be to strengthen our economy by the end of this agreement to try to reach and reach Croatia. Now I'm going to say something about problems that might follow the implementation of the CEFTA agreement, given the experience of bilateral contracts. I have already said that the only problem that could possibly happen, but this agreement does not contain mechanisms for far more effective removal of the effects of unilateral acts of certain countries, is the treatment of certain agricultural products in trade between us and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In other words, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia concluded an agreement on free trade on June 1st, 2002, which was asymmetric, i.e. allowed the Bosnian economy, which is far weaker than Serbia, to have a higher level of protection by 1 January 2004, with the agreement being arranged to fully equalise the level of customs protection, i.e. liberalise it by 1 January 2004. But practically, it never happened. On 8 March 2005, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted a Decision on the suspension of zero customs duties against Serbia and Croatia, to subsequently introduce subsidies to certain agricultural products, which is also prohibited by this agreement and the free trade agreement. In the end, they turned these subsidies into appropriate customs duties on 1 June 2006, so that we enter into trade with Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only us and Croatia, with an unfair treatment which, I must say, is now a far better option of removal, because now a committee is being formed within the CEFTA and if a country does not respect this agreement is far stronger pressure, including pressure from the European Union, to get rid of this. We expect that in the next talks, starting with this 28th in Ohrid, we will be able to negotiate with the Bosnian side. In any event, no party shall impose unilateral measures, although the CEFTA agreement provides for the possibility of countermeasures, compensatory measures to that party which may be affected by discrimination, before the appropriate procedure is removed. Here, these are the key things about the CEFTA agreement. I think parliament should accept it because it is in favour of the Serbian economy. The Serbian economy will profit from more liberal conditions of trade in the region. We will have more investment, given that those who produce in Serbia will be able to sell goods on the territory of these eight areas that ratify the CEFTA agreement. I hope this is just the first step. Our goal must be to join the European Union and fully liberal trade with the countries of the European Union. By then, CEFTA will help us to strengthen the competitiveness of domestic agriculture and prepare ourselves during the time that we will become a member of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5215	Thank you. I am informing the MPs that the SPS parliamentary group has proposed MP Milan Nikolic as its authorised representative. I would also like to inform the MPs that the DSS-New Serbia-Dr Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group has authorised MP Slavoljub Matic as its authorised representative. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want to say? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5216	Dear colleagues, to tell you the truth, I expected more from here the present rapporteur on behalf of the Government, which is that at least in the shortest I would introduce us to the basic principles and reasons for joining the CEFTA agreement. Why did I expect more? We here in the Assembly have a kind and educational role, i.e. to introduce citizens to what they cannot only meet on round tables, in chambers, in professional magazines, because if, as a home, as a National Assembly in which all layers of citizens are represented, we need to discuss the CEFTA agreement, we are obliged to tell citizens why, and under whose pressure, to be precise, we approach this organization. I have a basic motto that will characterize the benefits and damages of joining this agreement. I hope you've already seen me as someone who doesn't use any classified information, who uses the government dictionary, whose suggestions we're criticizing here, and I'm going to do it this time. In order to tell you what are the benefits of joining the CEFTA agreement, I will use the draft tobacco law, where on the side of the four -- the justification for law-making, and the tobacco is part of this package, put under point 3: are the positive consequences of law-making such as to justify the costs that it will generate? So there are costs, and whether the positive consequences cover these costs, listen to the government's reply: "The positive consequences of law-making are such that they do not cause additional costs for economic operators". Not a word of benefits, not a word of the effects that are measurable in the number of jobs, in the increased exports, in the reduction of the external trade deficit, which branches will profit from. I'm not going to say how many people are employed in the authorities of the state administration, as many of them with the salary they receive to give us such an analysis and assessment. They're not lazy. Not that they don't know that, but the effects of joining CEFTA are primarily political, and for us with political weight and political negative consequences. This means that this integration as a lobby of the European Union is actually something that Mr Erhard Busek calls a training camp for the common market. I quote – the prerequisite for entering the European Union and training camp. However, if you open a CEFTA agreement and look at Article 51, it states that the agreement is signed and will be valid indefinitely. It doesn't say until the entry into the European Union. Those promises were made orally, as you promised foreign partners when they entered the privatisation of the tobacco industry, promising them protection by 2009. I want to repeat to the citizens: someone can see us as a weak country, which does not have a strong diplomacy; they can also view us as a poor country, which also does not have significant diplomacy, but they cannot see us as stupid citizens who do not know that the EU has broken up the common Yugoslav market in which we do not have only Slovenia today, and we have Moldova. It's CEFTA. CEFTA is the former Yugoslavia, which has no Slovenia today, but we have Moldova. All the blame for the collapse of the single Yugoslav market, there are more serious consequences, but at this point I am speaking from an economic aspect, the same ones who are pushing us today into what is called the training camp for the EU. On what principles does this integration rest? One called the Constitution of the global economy. In 1996, the multilateral investment agreement, which I expected from you, Mr. Minister, was done in the World Trade Organisation project. The project, which was called censored, was personally sponsored by Mr. Renato Ruđero, who was then the director of the World Trade Organisation, who was working on a project that needed to eliminate all barriers for multinational companies. This means protecting multinational companies in a way that respects state sovereignty at all. According to the project, which is slowly, perfidibly and individually applied to both the EU and the World Trade Organisation, and here through CEFTU, countries that do not want to adapt their ecological or other standards can face very serious obstacles and bans. It was, of course, the biggest threat to developing countries, which is why the project -- censored, was in the strictest secret considered and done, because increasingly less developed countries were actually able to use and spend their natural resources, where, always, under that basic economic law, you have a spill in favor of the richer. I did not come to this information secretly, the entire agreement was published in the 1999 Word magazine, in our language, in this country. No one wanted to read it. No one will tell us that we are here a camp where a young (they think young) democracy is trained and that we are a country that has neither too much resources as Russia, a country that has no, from accumulated poverty and a large number of cheap labour resources, which has no technology and knowledge like the West, but has a slightly and interesting geographical position and therefore should be introduced into CEFTA, in which BiH can, on the day after ratification of the agreement, introduce additional customs duties on products that we export to BiH. I hope that's not news for you and that you're reading the press. I repeat, and after ratification of the CEFTA agreement in the BiH Assembly, a law has been passed introducing additional duties and customs on the products that are the subject of our exports. Then why the CEFTA? What makes CEFTA, if the solution from this big paper (I have brought only the part translated into Serbian, I have separated English) allows the country that violates the rules prescribed by the CEFTA agreement to do so for a year; some committee is in the process and we can run it twice, so three years BiH can go beyond the CEFTA agreement to implement its discriminatory and restrictive conditions without us being able to influence it. Why are they pushing us into the CEFTA deal? Not only because the EU has a problem with its future and is not sure if it needs expansion after Romania and Bulgaria's accession, whether it can work with that number of 25 countries at all. Not only that, they need Serbia to get a trade framework in which it will be able to hit economic slaps with political reasons. Do you want me to explain it to you, or do you want me to simplify it? You know that well, but for the sake of the citizens, I want to simplify it. The CEFTA agreement introduces, they say, competition. No one has privileged conditions. Was it moral and ethical for gentlemen of the developed and great world to be under completely privileged conditions, for example. The sale of Sartid, cleared of debts? How cleaned up? By destroying the mob principle, kill the trustee, and you don't have a debt, destroy four banks, and the state, or all of us taxpayers, accept the debt. There will still be disputes over Sartid for a long time, and that doesn't bother American friends, past the competition, past the public competition, in a bankruptcy procedure, not to mention in the time of Saberlje, in secret arrangements, buying a very significant hardware store. Where's the competition, the market, the World Trade Organisation? Do these EU firms mind privileged conditions when they participate in privatisation? Do they mind that we do not have economic freedoms and equal conditions in the functioning of the financial market or, at the expense of our political instability, consider this a hot market where high profits can easily be earned? I simply don't want anyone to make me ignorant and naive and benefit me on behalf of, which we're not aware of, and the introduction into this unique global world of equal opportunities actually applies the principles of double standards, obvious not only in trade, primarily in privatisation and financing of companies that go to the market. What do you say we go out and compete with the rest of Europe. And do those who go out to market with our businesses have the same situation in their countries or have their own banks that lend their production and exit to the market? No, we have banks, foreign banks that only credit spending, cash loans. Here our businesses come under the most difficult and expensive conditions to new technology and to modernise their production, and they ask us to be competitive. We are not exactly naive, like those who, on behalf of the people and on behalf of the state, sign a contract with KFW, the German State Development Bank, which finance the export of its companies. The state is in debt with the German Development Bank, because it has no state or commercial, no business banking, and our companies are in competition with countries that have not been sanctioned, no one has broken their market, no one has imposed democracy and new state principles on them in this economic area. I think you have a duty to go to the public with one precise analysis, to say nicely whose individual interests force you to praise the CEFTA agreement here. To remind citizens, when considering what is the precondition of the CEFTA agreement, which is to reduce tax taxes, equalising in fact tax taxes on cigarettes, and because of the CEFTA agreement, we had a situation that we had reduced a powerful man's tax obligations to coffee, at a time when we introduced a higher tax burden on auto-gas driving a large number of citizens. So there was no longer a matter of budget, Minister. At the time of the adoption of CEFTA, you said - CEFTA, yes, but first that the budget is not damaged because of smaller revenues from cigarettes, and I respect that, but at a time when you introduce a gas tax, you reduce the tax on one powerful man who needs to expand the market and what's called "Drogo Kolinska", "Soko Sturk" to allow a path without borders, visas and giving. Is one of those... And I'm naming one, because there's a particular insolence that in front of us at such a critical moment his interest is put above budget revenues, from which the citizens get nothing, coffee in the shops for the citizens has not been bought. The gas has obviously accumulated. It's effects, it's costing a lot of things, not just by the system of perception, but by the system... You've got a lot of people who haven't come out here with a precise analysis of how much we get and what we lose. In life, decisions are made either for emotion or for any other reason that is measured by plus and minus. We're serious people, you run the country, and we give you the right to do it or we make objections. How many pluses are on the CEFTA side, do you have one piece of information on what we're going to get? You say, we don't have any additional liberalisation, because we felt that liberalisation looked like in 2001 and 2006, and we know how many drives were closed and we know what kind of stuff we were buying and what old tires we were buying, etc. You don't say that individuals will benefit from it, those who measure themselves, that's what they say, join us, creating us here all kinds of monopolies and those who create a bridge to get out into the eastern markets, that is to say, in Russia. I understand when Mr. Vukevic, who's at the head of the Drugs Collinske, is asking to lose all the barriers, but I don't understand what we've got. Do you, when signing these agreements, have in your head only a warrant received from Bucharest that you must access CEFTA, and do you have any face to explain to your citizens the benefits and damages of that? There's something else I need to ask you. Serbian citizens are not enough to say... I'm begging you, just a little bit. It's not enough just to tell the citizens – that's what everyone does. And how do you live and how many people are unemployed? They certainly don't have more than 20 and 30 percent, how much our unemployment rate is measured. Those others don't educate kids like us, those other kids pay less when they get sick and don't pay for all the services we have to do, those others have a little more decent pensions and those others don't take loans to go on vacations. You who, in the name of the people, sign such an agreement, act in a philosophically defined category -- with the morale of a man who had a good lunch. It is the morale of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to us with a CEFTA agreement, from which we have only damage, and not benefits, and immeasurable and invisible, because it is in such a form that we do not have any protective mechanisms. Under the pressure of your employers and those who brought you to power, we must not be angry with them, to sign such an agreement. But not all of us are in the same role, not all of Serbia's citizens are in the situation that they had a good lunch, and not because they are lazy, not because they have too much protection through the labour contract, which is what foreign investors put you on, whose objections you hold the most when you make the agenda of this assembly and when you take measures in tax and other policies. Serbian citizens, the majority of Serbian citizens do not have a good lunch, there is no perspective, because they are aware that you are pushing us not towards compatible economies, which are ready for co-operation, but towards competitive ones. A similar base has all these countries of the former Yugoslavia and you, what is basic, at the moment you talk about the need for foreign direct investment to be a significant momentum for the development of this society, are conflicting with CEFTA members on the very principle of where foreign direct investment should come, and we are all in one package. I have succeeded, during which the Rules of Procedure allowed me, only part of the principled objections to make it understandable for the citizens. I hope I get a chance to bring up a lot more facts. I am not convinced that you will give this up, but I can give the citizens one hope – as the ratified CEFTA agreement does not oblige Bosnia and Herzegovina, so neither will we. It's the only chance. But if someone is taking care of the costs, about the work of this assembly, he had to say that this assembly has a lot of shortcut issues to discuss, and not that, by courting foreign powers that open borders for their multinational companies, we are discussing an agreement that will actually respect everyone as much as he can benefit from, and we, like Serbia, will be pressured to respect it for our own damage, and for the benefit of all the other members.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5217	The word has a minister of economy and regional development in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5218	You have asked a question whose individual alleged interests are represented by a proposal to ratify the CEFTA agreement. If individual interests are something that represents 30 per cent of the total exports of the Serbian economy, and 30 per cent of the total exports of the Serbian economy today go to these eight areas of CEFTA countries, and eight per cent of imports, therefore, if that is individual interest, one third of the economy, then ask yourself if this analysis is good for you. Is it an individual interest to advocate a CEFTA agreement if 50 percent of our domestic food products are exported to the CEFTA market? We, unfortunately, do not export to some developed markets, export where these countries are CEFTA agreements and 50 percent of what our food industry produces goes to CEFTA areas. Since we started applying free trade agreements, we have had significant growth, 30 percent of us have increased food and food exports to these markets. As we don't like it then, if half, you won't say that one man produces food in our country, half the exporters work for the CEFTA market. What else we export to the CEFTA market – paper, cardboard, furniture, medicines, metal products, electricity, oil oil. These are the largest and most important items in what we export to the CEFTA market. What does CEFTA help us with the bilateral agreements it replaces so far? Simpler coordination, and if a weaker economy, such as the case of Bosnia, introduces customs to us, we can remove and resolve disputes, the coordination mechanism is much simpler. Second of all, is CEFTA an EU lobby? It is, because some rules are being applied to the EU tomorrow. What countries were members of the CEFTA agreement before, and are now EU members? The Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary and now Bulgaria and Romania were all in this CEFTA area. If we want to be the EU, and the citizens will wonder in the referendum whether they want Serbia to join the EU or not, there are those who do not want Serbia to be an EU member... This government is defined as we join the EU as soon as possible, given that this will raise the standard and quality of life of our citizens. Here's some of the answers. So we help these people somewhere where we're strong, and that's exports to these areas, and where we're lucky to export that much to more developed countries, including the European Union, we get a chance to export even more. We continue to liberalise with these countries and how it suits us. When we talk about some costs, if we increase imports by 1% and exports by 10%, so it suits us that we are growing exports to these areas faster because we are making a foreign exchange inflow. Otherwise, as regards the example of the company you mentioned, Slovenia is not a member of the CEFTA agreement, and this firm you speak of is from Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5219	I would only ask MPs who have reported to the Rules of Procedure to have a replica first. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5220	Let's make a deal that we don't want to talk like people who can't hear each other. So the CEFTA agreement is on the agenda today. If I am in the Assembly, I Jorvanka Tabakovic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party, the agreement begins to be applied after ratification for eight days and after depositing the instruments, as the last member state. What could you have included in this 30% agreement by CEFTA, which is yet to be adopted, when it only replaces 32 bilateral agreements called spaghetti international trade, so these are double bilateral agreements? Do not take credit for yourself, or do not value the CEFTA agreement without it being in effect yet, or that it has not had a positive impact on the increase in exports to CEFTA countries. So we want to talk logically. We won't bother citizens with corrections, but just don't do it, because that's not true. I'll answer it right now. So, the fact that Slovenia is not a member of CEFTA, and the gentleman we talked about is one of the directors, that is the worst argument you could have made, because it allows me to tell you that 300 companies from Slovenia, which, for me, is a symbol of the European Union, is a symbol of integration, works in Serbia. No Serbian company has representation and exchanges, and according to the CEFTA, they would call it customs or non-tariff barriers, which are being stopped from entering. The proof of that is also the final example of the attempt by Delta to get in with the Istra Bank, when the state, through a para-state fund, gave a higher price, changed the process of selling shares and squeezed out... I don't care about Miskovic, but she pulled out a Serbian company. You have taught the world to work on this principle – not as partners, due respect, but as obedients who work in their interest. So, Slovenia and "Droga Kolinska", for me, is the principle by which you open this market, according to which they say – whatever you want, the Slovenians hired you 3,500 people. Well, guys, that's offensive! I respect Slovenian quality, I'm a man who doesn't know how to hate anyone, respect hardworking and hardworking, but to say that Mercator and Slovenian companies hired 3,500 people... And how many customers got every Slovenian company coming to this market? I just want precise data. The moment you, as Government, deserve respect and respect, by the effects you produce, I will give it to you. But I'm sure you won't give me that chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5221	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5222	Mr. Chairman, I knew you wouldn't let go of the power, because you know I'm going to read something that you have to try to show you don't even know Serbian. It is the grave and greatest violation of the Rules of Procedure that has occurred for the past seven years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So far, there has never been an advertised violation of article 194. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This bill and this proposalr, i.e. the proposing representative, are proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has violated this provision of the Rules of Procedure when setting out its representative in the National Assembly for this item of the agenda. This representative of the government is not determined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but by the Rules of Procedure of the Government. We are not bound by the Rules of Procedure of the Government. Before any involvement in any professional, politically justified debate, which would consider the wholeness, justification, etc. The adoption of a law like this, we should ask that the Government, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, appoint its representative, a team before we are absolutely certain that the government is also largely uncertain who should represent it for this bill. Just to remind you that yesterday's vote rejected the initiative to merge two points of the agenda. Look, Mr Albianic, in this article 194 it is said that a representative representing the Government should work in accordance with the law. Under what law could this government official represent when there is no law in this country regarding the ministry? Furthermore, on the basis of these several discussions on this bill, you could conclude that there is a kind of contradiction between this agenda point and the next agenda point. That, of course, confirms the Serbian Radical Party's thesis to split the pastures here, that this must push one pasta. I am warning the lords of this pasture, let them bind, lest this search today turn into a high treasonous process for some. Why? Because the government's representative on this agenda is quite incompetent. I have a set of evidence and I will use very often the opportunity to report to the Rules of Procedure and quote people who worked with this representative, such as Vuk Draskovic, who said that this representative was taking American money. It's a statement from 2000. I'd like to draw your attention that a reporter described him as entering the National Bank with an olive branch, and we know how he got in. That's what everybody knows, that's what they say. Until those accusations at the expense of Zoran Djindjic, that he, as Prime Minister, looks like a milking cow, then breaks it all apart. (President: It counts on the terminal time, and time is three minutes. No, it's time for you to realize that I quoted article 194 and said in advance that you wouldn't understand. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic, you have your word. ) So, since you, Mr. Albianic, are not allowed to plead on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest you interrupt the session, inform the President of the National Assembly of this violation of the Rules of Procedure and ask the Government to appoint us a real representative who might be able to speak of these matters. I will remind you that incompetence, incompetence, malpractice, indecency and disrespect to the National Assembly are the natural features of this representative; you remember that he was in jeans at two o'clock in the morning. A few days ago, he said the entire assembly was responsible, that all MPs were responsible. We do not have a high-quality representative here who would, in accordance with the law, represent this, because he didn't even tell us at first who signed this agreement on behalf of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5223	Thank you. Mr Krasic, Article 194. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia say that the government determines the members of the government representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. On the basis of Article 70(1), The government's Rules of Procedure, the government's representative at the National Assembly, was appointed Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development. We have a order of MPs. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: I am looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. You're not satisfied. He'll go to the vote. I thank you, if you are not satisfied, so is the Rules of Procedure, they will go to the vote. Please enter the record that this will be voted on and that the National Assembly will declare itself. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5224	Good afternoon, Mr. Minister, it's an honor to see you in this assembly, and I love to look you in the eye like this. I'd like to ask you a few questions. How did you manage in such a fast way, although it has not been a quick way since 2000, to ruin the entire economy of Serbia, and now I'm talking specifically about the King? So you were able to destroy all the wholesales that worked in the King, and there were five or six. I'm telling you from personal experience, because I'm one of the owners of that sale. By doing so, you have ruined all the independent shops that have supported at least 4-5 members, trained children, and in some ways people have survived. (President: Mrs Vukajlovic, please state which member of the Rules of Procedure. ) Article 226, I ask the man how he managed to do all this. One more question, please. So, we all had to close down, and we closed it down for the reason that some Mr. Draskovic started buying "Svilion", and then "Svovo", and so on, thinking it was our man who would still invest in our economy and in our country, and then he had little of those factories, so he started buying all the wholesale food goods. He bought Visol, Nanu, Impex from Nis yet to fight, Ju Komertz is still fighting, thanks to some party belongings I suppose, and all those who had nothing to do with some party belongings were doomed. Now the King's is one wasteland when it comes to the grocery store; we can only buy at Mr. Miskovic's facilities, which is now I don't know what the owner is, whether "Merkatora", whether "Pekabete", whether "Delte", whether or not the banks. One more thing, last year I went to buy a calf in Livajo, look out, Livaja is a village behind Brzeći, to buy healthy food for my children, and you can imagine, and he came there and bought it, so there are days when he buys out only a woman's body because it's cheaper than a man's. It's all spread over his products. You are now boasting that by opening those markets you have employed many of our citizens. You've hired 50 people, and you've left 5,000 people without bread. Why did you do that, I ask you, and can you really think so much that you hate this Serbian people? Just answer if you are conscious or unconscious, and is my colleague, Jorgenka Tabakovic, right when she asks if you have to do it like that? Get out here, and tell me if you have to work, see how unhappy we are. Please give some answers to all this, and I have more questions for you, because I think this question can't be over today, but it has to take a lot longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5225	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure. You're giving up? Thank you. National MP Slavisa Topalovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5226	Mr. Albianic, I know you've got a little bit of nervousness, there's the party president, you just met him and brought him into the O.R., but respect the other MPs and don't usurp the chairman's seat, as you can. I don't know if Mr. Dinkic knows that, but let me draw his attention to that, too. I appeal to Article 226 and ask for a few explanations from Mr Dinkic, Minister. CEFTA was founded by Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary on 21 December1992 in Krakow, hence, the former eastern bloc's country, on the orders of the West, to free their economy from state customs duties and to make it easier to influence multinational companies. Later, members also became former communist states: Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Macedonia. By joining the EU, their membership has ceased, so today this name CEFTA does not correspond to the real situation, as it is not made by the countries of Central Europe, but by the countries of Southeast Europe. CEFTA is an agreement that today defines a single area of free trade in Southeast Europe, although the name of the agreement describes the countries of Central Europe. When it comes to Serbia, we are asked to adopt this agreement by an urgent procedure. It was signed on behalf of Serbia by former Minister Parivodic, acting on the orders of Prime Minister Kostunica, in December 2006. There are two reasons why we're against this agreement. The first reason, Serbian Minister, the Serbian government signed a contract with part of their territory and third countries. So an international contract with Kosovo has been signed, confirming that Kosovo is on its own in fact. Of course, we seek the responsibility of whoever did this, we will never support any agreement in which Kosovo is the other side. The second reason is that these nine countries that are supposed to make this market have about 30 million inhabitants. If there had been a national economic policy in Serbia for the past seven years, this market might have been good for us, but the situation in the Serbian economy, thanks to you, Mr Dinkic, and others, is very different. It's the best thing they say about numbers. On one side are ministers, current, former, see what they have acquired in seven years, Vlahovic, Djelic, Dinkic. On the other hand, the state of Serbia has reached an external trade deficit of about $40 billion in seven years. This year alone, for the first seven months, it amounts to $4.930 billion, with a high chance of reaching $9 billion by the end of the year. What does this tell you? Well, nothing is produced in Serbia, you have destroyed everything by your rule. A million people are looking for a job, only the warehouses where foreign goods are imported. In this business, he earns an only external trade lobby. Otherwise, they are sponsors of the so-called ruling coalition. (President: Time. Our time is just coming, thank you, here I am. The main role of the government in economic terms is to protect domestic economy and ensure the employment of its citizens. The way you've been doing it for the last seven years, they've been saying numbers, so 40 billion dollars...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5227	Mr Topalovic, you will have time to speak since you are on the list of speakers of the SRS, thank you very much, your time is up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5228	Mr. Dulic, you're just in time. I've called you, of course, and I'm calling for Article 27's injury. The Rules of Procedure, but it wasn't you who did it, it was your vice president, Mr. Albianic. He always does that when it comes to his party president. What's this about? I would ask you to take the draft law which is the next item of the agenda and look at the first page of the tobacco law and take the first page of the bill to confirm the CEFTA agreement and see the second paragraph as it is written. I draw your attention that those people in the government were keeping an eye on what problems would arise in the National Assembly. When it comes to this item of the agenda, they wrote: "Article 70(1). The government's Rules of Procedure, for the government's representative in the National Assembly, is appointed by Master Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Regional Development." For the next item of their representative's agenda, I quote: "Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister of Finance, has been appointed as a representative of the Government in the National Assembly." Mr. Albianic couldn't see the difference between these two formulations. It's not about literacy or illiteracy, it's just that he can't see that there's a difference in the number of rows, because you know what the dictatorship is in G17 plus; he's on ice anyway, Dulicka's looking forward to seeing his feet. Why did the Government point out its rules of procedure and say nothing about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? There's a reason. Of course, that's what I set up with them, and that's perfectly clear to you. This is the only example where article 70 appears. Take a look at all the other draft laws that determines the government's representative. There's a stereotype formulation going on, like the tobacco bill. I managed my relationships to get them to put a member of their 70th Rules of Procedure in order to limit him from blowing up here. Why? They are not satisfied with how the proposal will be represented by the ratification law. That's what this is about. The Democratic Party has rightly requested that this debate be united. For what? That one representative represents both laws, so that there is no obvious division in the Serbian government in the sectors of interest. (President: Time. I remind those bosses again to stop for a little while, to hang up, they started barking a lot; I want to talk to the bosses, not the livres. That's the difference. So, Mr. Dulic, in accordance with the powers you have, you have to solve this problem – is Article 70(1). The government's rules of procedure here deliberately inserted in order to limit this representative, who obviously in the government couldn't escape in this way? While you were away, I read to Mr. Albianic a little bit of Article 194 where it is said that a representative of the government can represent here in accordance with the law. This representative of the government doesn't have that law, because no law treats that ministry. There is a Law on the Ministry, the Law on Government, etc., but a material regulation, which would prove to us that this ministry is somehow competent and for this matter, does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5229	We understand your question, Mr. Krassic. Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5230	First, I wanted to answer the question to Mladjan Dinkic, based on Article 226, but now I'm going to have to give you a business lecture, because you absolutely know nothing. I tried to go out for a pay phone before I warned you not to do what you just did, because that's what Natasa Micic would never do; she would give one warning, then the other, so in her manner she would turn off that MP, take away his word, and you want, like, to be nice, you're not, like, a rigorous president like Micicka, so as nice and good you represent yourself as the public, but you're pushing the button and the power out of the way, and you, Krasic, go to the place and the microphone -- nothing. He can't, Mr. Dulic, because it's a disrespect of the Rules of Procedure. You're playing with the National Assembly. Perhaps you, since I do not know what is in this work version of the Rules of Procedure, will write there or vote your assembly majority, at the time when you estimate that this extended time after three minutes is no longer the time that you will suffer and tolerate, to press the button and run out of power, but now you cannot, because, according to the members of 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure, in only one situation, you can, as you did at the beginning of the session in my case this morning, now in the case of Mr Krasic, take away the word of the MP. You hurt Article 106 because first of all, if you wanted to apply this Rules of Procedure strictly, let's see what happens, because man was saying, based on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the fact that Mladjan Dinkic cannot be a representative of this agenda... It was necessary, but only in these cases, that you could not apply it to Zoran Krasic and me this morning, to give a warning: if the MP approached the speaker without permission of the National Assembly, which Zoran Krasic did not do (this is quoted and cannot enter me in time); he speaks before he asked and received the word - he did not, he waited patiently, although your predecessor ignored the fact that Krasic had appeared before some other MPs; "who, despite the warning of the President of the Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda" - absolutely not, explained why Mladjan Dinkic could not and why the government, contrary to the Rules of the National Assembly, sent him here; "if he interrupts the speakers in the agenda" - of course none of the SRS did, "ordaindjan Dinkic"; "redicated the facts and the statements of other people in the past"; he said to the words of the "Mrandicators and "Mranje"; he said to other persons in the words, "Mrandication of the words and "Mrandication of the persons"; Then you give one warning, then another warning, and then there goes the 107 - the measure of taking away the words. Mr. Dulic, you've violated the members of 106th and 107th. There's no power outage anywhere. Maybe one day you'll be electrocuted, I really don't know how you're going and used to interrupting the MPs. If you want to continue, and you are all in the same conglomerate, to work as Natasa Micic, then let her go out and tell you what rigorous measures these are, and then misrepresent yourself in the history of the Parliament's presidency, as she did.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5231	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5232	Mr. Dulic, I haven't got the answer yet, but I'm counting on him to be negative. Of course, that's what we're going to vote on. Now I'm calling for another breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can read Articles 101, 104 and 194. We're really gonna have problems with today's debate. Why? You see how incompetent the government's representatives have been. He, in a replica regarding the presentation of representatives of the SRS, cited data on the advantages and what was well done under this agreement, and this agreement is not applicable, but has only become a part of the agenda for the first time today. So there's a medical problem here. It's kind of like Gašo Knezevic. He applied the draft law when making one solution and wrote it – based on the draft of the law, which has not yet come into force, I have come to a solution. So no one here gives us any projections, no conjecture, no indication on the basis of which it represents that we should adopt this. No, but the public also gets informed that the great advantages of this agreement have already been achieved, and the agreement has not even come into force, at least as far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned. So there's no diagnosis problem, literally with diagnosis. Why would the diagnosis of reasonable people lead to error? I must remind you, in the previous session Mr. Nikola Milosevic sat in the second row and when the representatives of the government hatched something like that, he, being a logician, couldn't stand it, picked himself up nice and went out to blow himself up, because he simply couldn't understand that 126 hands could cover the diagnosis. The National Assembly is where we should represent normal people of the Republic of Serbia. We need normal arguments to be presented, not to be given some fairy tales, some illusions and something neuropsychiatrics should put into the past, in that report. That's why I've warned you most of all, Mr. Dulic. The government had reason to insert that member of its Rules of Procedure in determining the representatives for this item of the agenda, to limit, in order to distract us, turkey dots do not apply. It's not like that. In the following, I will point to the tendency and stereotypes of this government representative, as he was towards Djindjic, according to Zivkovic, according to Kostunica, according to Labus. When a man like that represents a bill like this, who can take it for granted? Please interrupt the session, ask the government to state who will be the real representative of this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5233	Thank you. The word has the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5234	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very important document, a verification of an agreement on the amendment and accession of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, or Southeast Europe, as we wish. The genealogy of the duration of this agreement comes from 1992, with changes and additions in Krakow and Brno, and the definitive text of the amendments came to Bucharest in 2006. We are now in a position to realize that participants in the signing of this agreement in their parliaments, except for Serbia, have verified such an agreement and that, here we are today talking about it and we need to assess what to do and whether to join such an agreement. Before we decide, I think it is important that we have several facts in mind, which are the advantages of joining this agreement that can benefit, primarily Serbia's economy and the national economy of Serbia. The experience of the Czech Republic and Hungary suggests that the signing or verification of such an agreement is approaching this EU country. This also achieves these basic democratic principles based on the rule of law, on human rights and on fundamental freedoms. The government of the market economy, the principles of the Memorandum of Understanding on liberalisation are confirmed, a market of 25 or 30 million residents in the status of domicile consumers is opened, foreign investments are encouraged, competitiveness is increased and trade in goods is encouraged, regional economic co-operation is increased, and a wide range of quality goods are provided with cheaper prices in the offer. Of course, the development of trade relations and many other forms of co-operation provides an opportunity for us to have a more stable political situation in the region than it is now. The signing of the agreement would sublime all the agreements signed so far, 30 of them, on the liberalisation of trade between countries, now candidates and signatories of CEFTA. I mentioned earlier that Serbia is the only country of eight or 10 countries, which signed this agreement last, and according to the rules of the agreement, unless it joins in time, within 30 days cannot enter the status of a CEFTA member. The consequences are that at the first session, which was scheduled by the Committee for the end of September, we will not be able to make full decisions and make decisions in determining the rules of the game in implementing this agreement; we will be able to be only observers, because the time of 30 days has passed for us to schedule this session. We can draw a few conclusions from the deal. Its application will begin immediately, and much implementation of the agreement will start from 2010. It is a special newspaper that introduces trade in services and in particular investments, i.e. in their absolute protection if they come from the signatories to the extent that they have national treatment. A special plural agreement removes all possible and existing barriers to the development of a harmonised, free trade between signatories. A completely free competition will be introduced between businesses, even between public enterprises, so there simply won't be any kind of protection. All public procurements, wherever they occur, must be transparent, non-discriminatory and have national treatment. It is introduced to apply a very important diagonal cumulation of the origin of products between all parties of the signatories, and that will be said by some EU materials, via an annex that regulates how goods are treated and its origin. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, signing, verification and implementation of this agreement means fully liberalised trade under the signatories of the CEFTA agreement, but I would say further towards the EU. This means creating a business environment in duty-free conditions, without the possibility of special protection of the national economy. Only those who are the best in quality, the best at prices and other conditions of supply will survive. This will happen in conditions where our national economy is weak and fragile, with severe transition consequences and still vulnerable, unrecovered from the effects of the embargo. If signing the agreement means that there is no protection of the national economy or there is not enough protection of the national economy because there will be no customs duty on imports, no customs duties on exports of goods, for goods originating in the countries of the signatories or in the further EU chain, I would say even on agricultural products will not be able to apply any specific safeguard measures, nor the incentive measures of macroeconomic policy, the question is whether our national economy will withstand this. What will happen to our balance in business with the rest of the world if even today, even with partial liberalisation, we have a huge pay deficit in business with the world for many years; it is transferred year after year, and we have no mechanisms to reduce the trade deficit. We must not forget that our production, as it is, is highly import-dependent, and that in two years it is not possible to create capacities that will be able to produce materials and raw materials competitive in relation to the offer that comes from the countries signatories of the agreement and free us from import dependence. Our technology is obsolete, and our organization is archaic, and management is under-prepared. The result will be low productivity, and the chance of being competitive against industrial systems will not be on our side. Instead of creating an efficient and small-scale administration, we are constantly increasing it year after year. We have a set of state apparatus that this kind of economy has to sustain, and that's what's costing production and making us even more uncompetitive. Also, on the burden of production and on those who generate income, more than 900,000 unemployed, working citizens of Serbia enter the price elements. Is it realistic that we will hire this army until the full implementation of the agreement and thus reduce the allocations for social giving, and that these workers will achieve more competitive production than we have today? The cost of moving from a socialist society through transition to capitalism must not be on the burden of being fired and it cannot be paid by pensioners, close to a million and 400 thousand. In fact, we have to count on further separations from those who earn income for these categories of population, and at the same time we have to count on creating competitive production. Serbia belongs to a group of countries that have a very high tax exemption rate and contributions from personal incomes and a high percentage of VAT. Just for the above reasons, we will continue to achieve more expensive production than the market will be able to recognise and we will hardly be able to fit in with the competitive fight ahead. This team is harder because we already built capacity in this region of CEFTA cannot count on high-tech and high-intellectual services. Our chances are in the area of processing production and agriculture, where competition is very pronounced. Of course, there are many serious, responsible and difficult tasks ahead of economic policy holders, how to prepare a national economy to fit into the rules of the agreement and survive. Many steps have been taken on the way to the European Union so far, and it will be difficult to come to an end. So that's the philosophical one -- to approach the agreement, we'll regret it, we'll give up the agreement, we'll also regret it. In the parliamentary groups, it is up to parliament to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5235	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic reported, followed by Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I came forward because the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, that is the basis. I expected, Mr. President, that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would begin today with an apology because he has made several incorrect, incorrect, malicious and irresponsible statements in the past few days. It violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, I remind you, Mr Dinkic, and the public that you said the National Assembly didn't sit because the MPs weren't here. On page 63. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Section 3, says: "The government is the institution of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia. "Please, Mr. President, don't let my quote get in time. "The government determines and conducts politics, enforces laws and other general acts of the National Assembly, adopts regulations and other general acts to enforce the law, proposes to the National Assembly laws and other general acts and gives an opinion on them when they are submitted by other proposings"... But there's no bill. What the poet would say, and the messengers for nothing, wait for nothing. None of what they said in the campaign is in the drawer. They didn't write any laws. "He directs and coordinates the work of the authorities of the state administration and controls their work, performs other tasks specified by the Constitution and the law. "Article 124: "The government is responsible to the National Assembly for the politics of the Republic of Serbia, for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and for the work of the authorities of the state administration. "There is nowhere to tell the Constitution that the MPs are, God forbid, responsible to the government and ministers in that government. The government is made up of the Prime Minister and the Ministers. "The ministers are responsible for their work and for the situation in the area of the ministry's work for the Prime Minister, the Government and the National Assembly. "There is nowhere else, etc., etc. So, the smoke screen that you, Mr. Dinkic, threw these days had to serve as a bad argument and a bad argument that, for God's sake, because the MPs are not together Parliament can't ambush, which is why different writers in the cheap press are increasing the circulation. That's not fair. It's not fair above all to the majority who chose you, but it's not fair to the MP's institution either. The moment you passed the first act to the National Assembly, we are considering it today. Some will criticize him, some will praise him. Apparently, he'll get enough votes and it won't be a questionable adoption. That's not your first time, Mr. Dinkich. You said before: I will show the Messengers of the people. Just to see what it is you're about to show. If you don't like the position of minister, come to the National Assembly, be a People's MP, you were the first on the list, you have the right to be a People's MP, and then criticize the Government for the will. But you cannot, as a minister, criticise the MPs that the Assembly has not sat down, and it is not just because the government is unable to pass on any acts to this assembly. So that's the only truth, and it's my duty that on behalf of the colleagues I represent here, and I hope on behalf of all of you, that's what I'm saying, because it doesn't make any sense what you said. It is false, malicious, it contributes to the reputation of this institution being violated without it earning anything. Give the laws and we will consider them, give what is in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Law to be implemented. You didn't do any of that. Here, let's pick the governor; that's one of the obligations so you can't pass it on. So please don't act like we're your property. We are not such things, nor can you accomplish it in any way. There's no point in doing that. You, as finance minister, have held parliament in chess-mat position before. I hope that we will pass the Law on the National Assembly and that you will no longer be allowed to do so. Please, I asked you a personal question – what acts did your ministry send to the National Assembly for adoption without us doing so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5237	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5238	Mr. Dulic, I believe you've violated article 100. The Rules of Procedure, because I expected a little more courage from you than Mr. Albianic owns, and he is famous for that courage, such as famous and Italian books on Italian courage. As you come up with an answer, and you're obliged to give me an answer, and I'm going to keep reminding you of that obligation under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure until you give an adequate answer, I am, in order to help you find that answer, giving you a few very important details. You saw, you heard exactly what Mr. Baralic said. The government did not apply for an emergency session, but of course someone had to jump out and attack all MPs to blame someone else. You can see how much this personal urge has ruled over the proposer's representatives, that there is a virtually proven inability to properly represent the bill. Here, I'll give you a few more examples to give you this very vividly. For example, in 2005, the newspaper text, a big title says – a fake; almost none of the politicians and MPs believe in the oath of Minister Dinkic that he has no interest in money in life. That's what the press and the editors wrote. Let me remind you of a very nice detail. Mr. Dinkic gives an interview, so he says - I was Djindjic's secret economic adviser until I went to a semi-annual training in Italy. As far as these material assets are concerned, here's what she says – my wife Tanya said that it's out of the question that we risk investing all the money from the house in a book that nobody's going to buy and read. In a short time, two editions were sold, and then my friend Pedja Markovic decided to publish the book and "The Pillars of Culture". And the book he was celebrating was because of what the book said, some of them commented on it – his dad gambled with the Jugoscan and the Dafiment Bank, so he lost money so he could get his money back into politics. Excuse me, please, do we have to interpret every word of this government representative as an objective position of the government or as a personal urge? It is known that he said that even at the funeral of Djelic, something like that was, some kind of heavy argument... (President: Time) But this proposal was signed by Djelic and Djelic – Article 70. Rules of Procedure. So Bozidar Djelic knows who he has appointed as a representative of the government for this part of the agenda. Now, you from the Democratic Party, if you don't put up with Djelic, that's your problem, but I have to respect the paper on which the government seal stands. Is it in this game -- let's not go, because he's vice president for European integration and for co-operation with the EU, because by the logic of things, this should defend the Deputy Prime Minister... Mr. Krassic, come on... Come on, we'll take a break, I'll call you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5239	I know you'll call again, just don't forget where you left off. Cedomir Jovanovic, head of the LDP parliamentary club, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5240	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Dinkic, I must tell you that we are not satisfied with the way this debate is being conducted. For us from the LDP, this agenda point is very important and we are discussing the ratification of such an important agreement, among other things, and as the most significant expression of our willingness to do something concrete about our country's European integration. I can understand, although we will never agree with the resistances that individual parties who do not want that kind of European perspective in our society express during this debate, but it is for the strongest condemnation of the insecure nature of the government and of the parties that make up the ruling coalition. Mr Dinkic, you were obliged to say in your opening statement, which is why we are the only country with delay ratifying an agreement from which, in our opinion, the future of generations living in our society depends crucially. This is important in order to determine responsibility, because the exemption of responsibility, practically, from our society, makes our daily lives a reality in which everyone is allowed. If the Assembly confirmed the ratification of this agreement on July 23rd and if the government that passed it on knew that ministerial conferences would be held in half of September, why, Mr Dinkic, you as minister allowed our country, which is so far from the status that we as 21st-century citizens have the right to come into defeating status and position as an observer. Who is responsible for not discussing the CEFTA agreement on 24 July, July 25, August 1st, August 10th? Who needs to take responsibility? We insist on responsibility for the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia, a country on the tail of European integration, will appear at a ministerial conference of CEFTA member states in the status of observers. Who's responsible for that? Do you have enough political courage to say something like that? We know what this is about. Serbia cannot be liberalised economically and engaged in economic integration without a previously clearly confirmed willingness to have political will for the same process. From October 2000 to September 2007, we were never, in a political sense, further from Europe. We now need to confirm our willingness to be part of Europe by voting for this form of economic integration. Who are we making this deal with? What are our relations with these countries? Are they good neighbors? Are they marked by understanding? Is there a misunderstanding? If there are, are these misunderstandings political or economic? That's what we need for this debate. You know very well which countries this agreement is concluded with. You know how complicated the status of Kosovo is, which is also part of this agreement. For months we have appealed to the political sobering of our society to face the truth, but this is a coward's egg. We don't need you here. Here we need Prime Minister Kostunica to give us an example of a country in the world that has signed an international agreement with another partner who is at the same time experiencing part of its territory. It is important to us for the fates of those people who live in Kosovo, whom someone else will tell the truth, instead of the government who is obliged to do so. Should we bring the trumpets here to greet him or should we go to Guch and the assemblies to meet him? The prime minister is here, and the Deputy Prime Minister, because this should be a holiday for Serbia, in our opinion, because we are creating a single market with our neighbours. We have fought with some of them, which is proof that things can be solved in a different way, to allow positive outcomes, which should be an example in some other complicated situations that are so much in our lives. There is no one here, as if the government is ashamed of the fact that parliament has proposed ratification of this agreement, and there is no reason for such a thing, in our opinion no. Look at the benches, no ministers, no Prime Minister, no 70-80% of the ruling coalition MPs. What does that mean? That the government cares about this document or that it's forced, that pro-forms, because of some particular interests, it still misses something like that through the Assembly? How will we develop economic co-operation with Albania, with Bosnia, with Croatia, with Montenegro - the quasi state, which should be squeezed, squeezed, squeezed, squeezed, with Kosovo that we want to block? How are we going to develop, how are we going to respect an agreement that needs to be ratified? The LDP is ready to respect him. Is the ruling coalition ready? You know how much responsibility there is behind this initiative? We need to explain to society what the benefits of this agreement are, translate it into an understandable language. There are many who will take advantage of these difficult circumstances in which our society is located. But you have no reason to hesitate before these facts. We will have a bigger market, consumers in Serbia will have a better offer, and there will not be one man before whom they must kneel if they want to buy something. The Zara in Belgrade will no longer be the most expensive Zara in the world, more expensive than London and Moscow. Maybe the margins will fall, so even though we have small incomes, we'll buy cheaper goods because of the competition. Instead of talking about it, we support that Milosevic's economic blindness at the end of the 1980s when Slovenians were to blame for everything, so the Croats, and the Bosnians, and the Macedonians, and the Montenegrins, then the Albanians, two or three times, and we started sharing. It is clear why our companies are facing obstacles, among other things, because there is no deal like this. This agreement opens the door to every company, provided it has something to offer, provided it is not the only thing it offers is the fact that its owner is on the EU or US blacklist. These are the reasons why our economy is not welcome in certain areas -- which is not competitive, which is speculative, which means that it will be able to operate there according to the rules that operate here. These are topics that need to be discussed with people in Serbia, for which this agreement should be defended. Look what they have turned us into a sacrifice. You are sitting here now, as the target of those who made political expenditure out of Serbia. And you're the minister of a government that wants to take Serbia to Europe. That bothers us. We will vote for this agreement. We would vote at any time, we are not interested in you defending him, which is signed by Bozidar Djelic, and that the Prime Minister, who signed him in December, has not said a single word about him. We will vote in favour of this agreement, but the realisation of this agreement depends not on our political will, but on the government's willingness to do what it has committed to this agreement. You know what she's committed to? I'll only quote you two positions; you've confirmed your commitment to pluralist democracy based on the rule of law and human rights and other freedoms. Is this what Serbia described in September 2007, is this pluralist democracy, is there a rule of law here, respect for human rights, or are we all victims of a political state, party state, ordinary law, and not a market economy? You've committed to respecting the principles of the market economy, and you've made this a party. The government exists for four months and you still haven't agreed on how to divide the prey of the poor government and to whom the NIS, EPS, the airport, the Serbs, the Serbs will belong. It wasn't something you entered the election campaign for the January elections with. In Serbia, 50% of the price is under state control. It's not a market economy. The privatisation of public enterprises is avoided, why? Because they are party monopolies and because they are the starting points for the party's served, and proven party personnel, on the one hand; on the other hand, a great means to buy the votes of an unhappy Serbia. That's what you were doing. No, Mr Dinkic, the market economy in which the minister goes and announces winter Olympic games and in which the minister shares a billion euros from the National Investment Plan. Is there a country signatories of this agreement in which it is possible? The National Investment Plan Act in front of parliament, defined projects, not a political cook, and not the Podokin Villages, not the rapid railways and Swedish standard. What they did with Telekom in 1997 you started working with Mobtel in 2007, and everyone has their Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, everyone. That's what you confirmed. This is an insult to your voters who voted to compete with the region. As we enter that race, do we have any plans? The Chamber of Commerce, whose chamber is this? Have a seat of Milosevic's tycoon and the president of the state, and then they'll figure out who's gonna do what, you take Chad off my back, and I'll take the Toplice out of yours. How far are we gonna go like that? The Chamber of Commerce has become a party cell of the Democratic Party, is that somewhere? You took the bathroom for yourself, you like skiing. And Kostunica doesn't like anything, but he wants everything. We will vote for this agreement, you have our support, but make sure you make a big commitment to yourself, and we will be the ones to control you in every segment of your activities. So we insist on determining responsibility because this poor country, after years of sanctions, blockades and misunderstandings, will again be in a humiliating position at the conference, because someone was irresponsible or hypocritical, so he decided something like that. Why are we arguing with so many delays about this, July 23rd came to the Assembly? Here you go, or you tell Mr. President, whether we are responsible for it as LDP MPs, whether the opposition is responsible or is responsible for that concluded ruling coalition which obviously works and which should not work if the only thing that needs to be created and produced is chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5241	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic called, the next MP is Rajko Baralic, and the MP is Aleksandar Vukic. The People's MP Milutin Mrkonjic called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5242	Mr. Doolic, you keep ignoring my question. I don't know what the reason is, but you show great perseverance, endurance and I am absolutely sure, either you or Bozidar Djelic have read this article since 1 November 2001, you see, sir, it says – superman. Do you think this government official is a superman? But you see what he says here in the subtitle - underneath the mask is just a simple absoluteist. So, according to the exact facts that were just taken out of this pay phone -- one minister negotiated, someone signed, and everyone seems to have given it up -- they had to send "supermen" here, because otherwise it might pass. But that's why they wrote that the power of "supermen" is limited by Article 70. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can't win, Mr. Dulic, from you this answer. Did anyone in that kitchen, a whore, called a democratic block, come up with the idea that this government official should be exposed to the inconveniences here so that somewhere in the government, another option would be given to popularity? You're wrong, we put it all in the same basket. There's not only no principle difference, there's fundamental equality. That is why I warn you, Mr. Dulic, since it has already been proven, Zarko Obradovic talked about it this morning, that you broke the law by not calling the elections. Since I am going out for the fourth or fifth time and I insist on asking you for an answer, and you are in no way giving an answer, you are thus confirming that in continuity you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You are a multiple returnee on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And, if you don't think there's a possible vote to determine that you've committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which wouldn't surprise me at all, then believe me, these five viewers who've been following this transmission will, so ten people are likely to know that in the most brutal way you've treated the MPs who pointed out the grave injuries of the Rules of Procedure. We have not yet, as far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, begun to censure this agreement in those parts where it can, and it is time to prove the act - a treasonous process. (President: Thank you very much. We are able to do this and do not worry, but you are a young man and I would recommend that you take Mr Micunović's advice that the form is very important and that the Assembly and cannot exist unless the form is respected. Listen to him, you're from the same party, learn something, and later I'll tell you what Mr. Micunovic said about Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5243	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Rajko Baralic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5244	Mr. President, Article 103rd position. "Blind" talked about by Cedomir Jovanovic led to the signing of an interstate commercial agreement with Russia, with a 1% customs duty, and that is the only serious arrangement that this country has ten years old. As a result, Agrokor bought "Frikom" and therefore bought 90 companies from Slovenia, Croatia and other countries for re-export to Russia. If the agreement was not good, then why was the government of Zoran Djindjic, Zoran Zivkovic, the two governments of Vojislav Kostunica, including this third, technically, did not suspend the agreement? So when one period is criticised, then one has to take care of what happened in that time, which today has a strategic significance for the economy, which is, indeed, in a rusty condition, but still survives, although you have liberalized almost everything that was possible, first of all, when it comes to the market, and also many other things. So, I was going to say something and a propo one stinger who was going to see Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, but he'll obviously manage to defend himself. I'd like to get these defenses of yours with that base yearly, without the National Investment Plan and in a few months. I said, and that's the end of it, you, Mr. Jovanovic, said they all had one Mrkonjic. I said he doesn't have a Liberal Democratic Party, he doesn't really exist, I don't see any among you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5245	Thank you. Mr. Grouchy, do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5246	No need, Rajko defended me. Mr. Chad wouldn't understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5247	There's a word from MP Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5248	Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, the DSS - New Serbia accepts this agreement. Of course we will support the motion of the Republic government. It is unnecessary to repeat this, but it is not burning to comment on the views of the other parliamentary groups that have raised the concern that this agreement is not leading to a better one. When it comes to radicals' attitude, I have not heard any reasoned critical reference. Namely, everything we heard from the authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party is simply not written in this agreement. What's this about? It is about the concrete effects this country receives by expanding the common market with neighbouring countries. I don't belong to a group of junostalgics, but I have to say that certainly our economy lacks that component of co-operation with other markets. What we can hear from the businessmen is that certainly a large market corresponds to this way of communication. Serbia is the biggest market under the CEFTA agreement, and Serbia certainly has to do with having one settled situation, related to the mutual exchange of goods, services and other things. I'll remind you that the exchange with the neighbouring countries during 2006 was at three billion dollars. Of which, the biggest exchange was with Bosnia and Herzegovina in one billion and 92 million dollars, of which 749 million were our exports and the rest imports. The trade trade with Croatia has a negative balance of $585m, of which our imports are 334m and 251m exports. With other countries, we have a positive balance. Only Moldova, with which we have almost no trade in goods, is only $11-12 million, of which is a deficit of about two or three million. So, we have a favourable situation when it comes to this agreement and it's definitely on our hands. What else we got going on? It is on our hands, first of all, to settle these bilateral agreements between the member states. So, you'll have one settled situation, and even in relation to the disputes that are possible (you have this Bosnian example mentioned by Jorgenka Tabakovic), and it is possible that they are resolved at the level of the joint committee. This is one advantage that certainly enables all these countries to do business with co-operation and the ability to exchange goods and services in a much easier way. Further benefits are also a large common market, between 25 million and 30 million consumers. This market allows large investors to know where they are coming from, to come into a situation that allows for greater security in business. Furthermore, relaxation in the sphere of economic relations also allows for the relaxation of political relations. It's all in function, let's say, political and state stability. Of course, here are the objections about Kosovo and Metohija, to sign a contract with UNMIK and that this is a problem for the state of Serbia, since it is undoubtedly part of our country. I remind you that UNMIK Kosovo represents on the basis of Resolution 1244 and we do not have a major choice at the moment. As for the opposition of LDP and Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, I am surprised that today we have simply testified that Mr. Krasic has become public, right, Mr. Krasic, a fan of Cedomir Jovanovic. What are you looking at? It is seen in a joint desire to obstruct the work of this parliament. If we had a slightly better relationship, a slightly more normal relationship between individual MPs with this speaker and the Labour Rules, we wouldn't have had so many abuses and we wouldn't have this date, which is almost the last date, to adopt the CEFTA 2006 Agreement, because we have a meeting of the Joint Committee in Ohrid on 28 September. You ask, Mr. Jovanovic, what did your MP Vladan Batic do today, to whom you gave the mandate. What was he talking about today? Does Serbia have any interest in the story of Vladan Batic, especially in such a way, a Christian who has not yet become a Christian. That's what he was talking about, about. So these are all the problems that we can solve with this agreement, but we can also have a more constructive relationship with important laws that expect, above all, younger generations in this Serbia. This is why the DSS will contribute all its discussions to the President of Parliament and the Minister and we hope that in a brief debate something which is undoubtedly useful for our country unanimously, or at least with a large majority, we will bring, when we vote on the CEFTA agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5249	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and then Dragan Todorovic appeared and then Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5250	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, that we are using our right to defend the agreement proposed by your incompetent government, and it is incompetent to implement a policy that is directly contrary to the agreement you seek support... She's incapacitated because she can't defend that deal here from the assembly benches. She is also incompetent because you are the only member of the Prime Minister's party here in the Assembly, or you have, I apologize, two or three. Two DSS deputies are here. You're accusing us of not adopting this agreement at a time when this agreement could have been adopted. We made you a government, how incompetent you were! The government made you an opposition. Take care of what follows the obligations arising from the fact that you are the government in this country. Prove it in any other way than by experiencing over those who are powerless. Take responsibility for something. At least sit here. As for the blindness of Milosevic, during which you are called as famous in the consumer basket, there was mostly roots. Yes, we have a signed agreement with Russia, but Russia has never ratified it. The Duma never discussed him. While you were running after the ball in Marakana, you could have asked them - excuse me, and when will you confirm with the votes of an agreement that we care so much about? Now, when you bend enough, then we'll confirm it. We appreciate the support, but it's social aid, not business success. What did we take to Russia during the 1990s? What are we exporting today? What did this country and its economy look like 15 years ago, like ours, and what are the characteristics today? As for Mr. Mrkonjic, it is nice that he connects with construction in Serbia. It is bad that he mainly did what he and his party had previously done and the policy he had served to bring down. It is often called in the people from which you come - the spilling from the hollow to the empty. We are today the poorest European society, with the most dysfunctional education, with the most difficult social obligations, the most huge political problems, and that is the legacy of one of the wrong times. It would be good if we didn't pollute too much about it, and we were very reasonable to tell people that we were able to formulate a policy that in a different way would realise the interests that we might be talking about back then. There's nothing wrong with the idea of developing a Swedish standard here, but then let's apply the methods they applied to get there. Let's appreciate the success, the knowledge, someone's work, let's change the rule that makes you the craziest if you get to work first, and the last thing you do is leave. (President: Time. Let's do it. As far as the ruling coalition is concerned, this is a disgrace to what is happening right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5251	Thank you very much. Dragan Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5252	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unfortunately, there are MPs who will never understand things. The only judge in Serbia's political scene is the people, i.e. voters. The result of how we present ourselves to these voters is after some elections. Criticizing here the opposition to obstruct or in some uglier way prevents this law from being passed, and at the last moment, by MPs of the ruling coalition, is simply an amazing thing. We haven't been in session for a month or a half. Well, this deal didn't come to the Serbian Parliament yesterday, so now we do, and we don't. Where were you for a month and a half? Look how many MPs are sitting here who are not sitting in the O.R. right now, he's already out. And he finds that he honors representatives of opposition parties, SRS MPs, to obstruct the adoption of this law. It's our right, we're acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Or do you think the President of Parliament is in violation of the Rules of Procedure? I can't have either of these things being true. So, come out with a proposal that the chairman, or president of the Assembly, violates the Rules of Procedure, so let's put it to the vote. I remember, once upon a time, when the DOS came to power, a representative of that strong group complained that the chairman was violating the Rules of Procedure, and in my case, when I confirmed it and asked it to be put to the vote, he himself did not vote for his own proposal. That's what you are, what suits you right now, you would do it... It is our right and we will use it the way the Rules of Procedure predicted. You can't, and you shouldn't stop us from doing that. You bring out all the good parts of this agreement and there won't be any problems. We here point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, yet we haven't heard from the chairman whether it's true or not. How is it possible for a government representative in one case (not only in one case, in all cases) to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but only in one case with the Rules of Procedure of the Government? These are some things that you have to solve, but before they come to the congregation, because as soon as they come to the congregation, you give us the right to criticise it and to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5253	Thank you very much. This is where we stop. I've been setting a break for an hour. Resume session is at 3:00, thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Krasic, then Rajko Baralić, and the People's Messenger Milutin Mrkonjic, answered the line. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will continue its work after 18 hours until this item of the agenda is completed. I'd also like to inform you that we've received information that a direct transmission on the second program lasts until 1750 hours, but this time we've secured a delayed transmission. If the National Assembly works for more than 18 hours, the delayed transmission will be 21 hours. In the order of the MPs, according to the application for a single search of the bill, I give the floor to the MP Vesna Pesic, and let the People's MP Rajko Baralic be prepared. They're not present. ) I give my word to the People's MP Peter Kuntić, and let the MP Marko Milenkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5255	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honored Chairman, said in the opening statement, Minister Dinkic signed an Agreement on Free Trade in Southeast Europe in Bucharest on 19 December 2006, short-named CEFTA. The agreement came into force in half of August this year, and except for Serbia, all other states signatories ratified the agreement. On December 19th last year, the Romanian capital opened the door to the most significant trade agreement since the fall of communism in these areas. In objective terms, this is the most significant economic agreement in the region's history. The question is, why? Economic co-operation is being developed in the region by forming a customs-free zone, as we heard by 31.12.2010 at the latest. The process of European integration is speeding up, as regional co-operation is a prerequisite for EU accession. That's why it's important for this ratification, the assembly of messages that we want to integrate into the region. Consumers in the region are provided with a much larger range of products. This CEFTA market will exist for 25 million consumers and will no longer be customs duties for members' goods. Serbia's economy will be forced to improve production performance indicators, in particular productivity, economics, rentability and other indicators, i.e. will necessarily have to raise competitiveness and will be completely left so-called. State care and support in export-sector enterprises. The CEFTA agreement will also contribute to the political stabilisation of the entire region. Why? Because we have the experience of the EU, where countries that fought against each other in World War II, especially France and Germany, then Italy and the Benelux countries, made a leap and formed a Union of coal and steel in 1951, which was, in fact, the beginning of a new Europe. In 1957, the Roman agreement effectively opened the perspectives of European integration. In such a union, the infrastructure built goes beyond state borders, standards have been harmonised in all countries and the customs union is being built. It all contributes to political stability. By ratifying the CEFTA agreement, we will indeed have to change our way of thinking when we talk about the economy in Serbia, to stop complaining about how difficult it is to sell and export our car south, but to see how Romania is doing with a "daciju", which has already sold several thousand cars to Serbian citizens. That is why I call on Members of Parliament to vote positively with the ratification of the agreement and send a clear message to the neighbours and to Europe that we want integration into the region, and time will show the benefits of this agreement for the citizens. I am quite sure that the CEFTA agreement opens a new, better Balkan history page.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5256	Replication to the presentation of MP Matic, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5257	That's right, Mr. Albianic, that's the first time you've hit today. I thank you, and there's no need to be angry. Mr Matic began his presentation as a representative of the proposing, i.e. representative of the DSS parliamentary group, in a traditionally known and recognizable manner, characteristic of the DSS. First, he said he had not heard Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, so in the last sentences of his opening statement, he showed that he had heard. Then he said he heard nothing new about the law, or God knows what, and in the end it turned out that he heard very well what Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic said. That's the second part of "I don't hear, I'm not informed." Don't laugh, you DS, that's what I learned from you, that there are hyperactive and that there are drones. Now you've reminded yourself that you've been saying that these are drones. That's your point. Then Mr. Matic said it was your fault that this wasn't ratified in time. For the public's sake, I have to say, this was signed on December 19th, 2006. Mr. Maticu, why didn't you collect the appropriate number of MPs and request an emergency session at which the ratification of this agreement would be urgently carried out? I don't know if he was exactly St. Nicholas, but he was 19 when he signed, and I'm talking about why you're not tomorrow, so 20. They couldn't, the other day. That was way too much for them. Then why are we to blame? Why should we be poor enough to be guilty of what you say is "truts"? Why didn't you form a government on January 29th or 30th, February 1st? You're not. When did you form it? You know. When you formed, why didn't you put it on the agenda first? You didn't even put what the Constitutional Law bound you to. You don't put anything under the law because you're a pig. You're not interested in anything, you're finished, there's no constitutional law for you, there's no moral norm, there's nothing but naked interest. To make the citizens understand what is where it is, see what Mr Dinkic says; let's say, when he was first elected to the government, Ilic is not the place in the government. That's what he means by Velya Ilic. (President: That is not what MP Matic said. ) I say Dinkic, at a time when he was in the first government with Vojislav Kostunica. (President: Time's up, Mr. Krasic. No, I'll take away what you've intervened. On July 13th 2004, (Mr. Albianic, I will give you all of this) he says - Ilic is not a place in the government, and 15 Mr. Dinkic says - we offer foreigners more than Europe. What a takedown, you see. He can strip, but Serbia can't strip, he can strip, we don't care about him. Serbia must not be humiliated. I know, Mr. Matić, that you are against Serbia being naked and offering someone more than Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5258	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5259	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, I would first like to draw attention to the minister who is in charge today of following our debate in the Assembly not being present at all. I was just about to point out, for one thing, that a few days ago in the paper, it was announced that Minister Dinkic said that the government is working much faster than parliament does, and all this summer, journalists and ministers have been racing who will continue to spit in the Serbian parliament. It is something that is truly unacceptable for someone who is considered a democratic bloc and who does not respect parliamentary democracy but in our country, parliament has the lowest rating and lowest respect by citizens, which, I must say, is also contributed by our ministers. Now we have seen, just because of this very important law and ratification of such an important contract, that we received this contract on July 23rd, that all of us, as many as there are in this assembly, were present at that time in Belgrade, that we adopted a resolution on Kosovo, that there was no reason not to schedule a session on July 25th and that such an important law was not passed. I'm saying this because I have to inform the citizens that because we haven't adopted such an important law in time now Serbia will not have the opportunity to participate in the CEFTA Committee meeting. I wanted to ask Mr. Minister, and Mr. Dulic and the chairman, to explain to us who would take the real responsibility for this delay. There's nothing easier for them than when they go public saying that we're dembels, that we're not doing anything, that everything is, that we're a narrow throat for their laws. And we have to say that our drawers are empty, that the government can't agree on anything, and of course, they've had time to box around the boards of directors, and that's why they stop everything that's important to this country. Now I'm going to say that, to inform the citizens, why this is essential to them. The CEFTA agreement should allow no longer exist in Serbia such monopolies as are present. I don't know if people know that there's a measure of competition in one economy and that when competitiveness is measured by scores of up to five Serbia gets a score of 1. When there is no competition in the market, it means that we pay all products much more expensive and that it burdens citizens' living standards. Almost one daily paper gave a single survey and data that one team went to Prague, which otherwise has a very high score in competitiveness, and has proved that our citizens pay 40% more than people who live in the Czech Republic pay because their competition is at a certain level. In addition to bringing investors, it allows for higher employment, cheaper goods, improves our economy, provides transparency, now with changes in CEFTA from 2006 you can see that there are both public procurement and services, then intellectual property, that these are key things for new rules that prepare us and allow us through regional co-operation to enter more competitive relations with the EU, without which it is not possible. This is a big step for Serbia, but we are being put in a position by this government to be observers at the next CEFTA meeting this month. Why wasn't that done? I can say on behalf of the LDP that if the ruling coalition didn't have enough MPs at the time, when it comes to such a law, about a contract which, both our country as a whole and every citizen, is interested in improving its life and fundamental and real fight against corruption in our country, that this is being questioned and that our position will be weaker than that we have in time. I continue to insist on our parliamentary group, the minister will not explain what it is, Mr Dulic has not given an explanation, but we will not all together here in this assembly allow it to be transferred to the expense of the Serbian state's MPs and parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5260	The minister's coming. As far as work goes, Rajko Baralić is up, but just to clear the order. We have a replica of MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, the authorised representative of the SRS, to present MP Slavoljub Matic, the authorised representative of the DSS-NS. Then, the People's Messenger Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Before that, one notice. As for Serbia's competitiveness, it ranks 87th, out of 127 countries of the World Economic Forum. That's not a good result, so we have to fight on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5261	Dear colleagues, I respect that Mr Matic intends to make, as a representative of the ruling coalition, Serbia's citizens an attractive step towards the EU, although unfortunately CEFTA does not seem at all attractive, as does EU accession itself. It's unfortunate that my 20-minute exposure failed to remember much. I advise him to take notes and see it, but I thank you at the same time and I'll repeat for him what integration really means. CEFTA and EU accession, as well as all integrations, regional, global, any, must lead to change, not any, but better, and more measurable changes to the better. Not those changes that are unauthorized to us here from the chair table, but the changes that citizens feel every day, when they go to buy from the salary they earn, when they go to raise credits in banks that didn't provide us with competition, when they school children, when they pay for health services, when they receive pensions. I repeat, integration as a change in the best that will make everyone better. What's the problem? Why do we adopt and ratify the CEFTA agreement in this way? Do you think there's an entirely random ratification in parliament? No, I don't. Someone who imagined that the geopolitical goal of identifying in this House for the European Union, through this hall, the lobby and the entrance called CEFTA, was not naive here. The ratification of this agreement is intended for parliament precisely for the purpose of ensuring the time consistency of the policy that is being conducted in certain, as powerful people say, unstable countries, meaning – while you are in power, so you are obedient, you should show that you are attached to the geopolitical goal of joining the European Union. All that talk about the referendum is for nothing. And you achieve that goal. There is no increase in imports and exports. We have bilateral agreements we're working on. You are obedient to say – yes, this is the first step for the European Union, and they are afraid that some other forces decorated in Serbian radicals do not allow the people to truly plead. That's why you're asking for ratification, they're asking, and you're listening, so it doesn't happen, once the contract is signed, to give up the goal, because the damage to that contract would be much bigger than giving up. Don't be naive and don't wait for your problems regarding the borrowing of citizens, which the Serbian Radical Party spoke of in 2001, to happen today as a particular problem. Just to say hello to the minister who hasn't arrived. Citizens don't deserve to be given false information. Southeast European countries, CEFTA, are participating in the export of the Serbian economy by about 30%, he said correctly, but the imports are not true with 8%, but with slightly more than 20%. Each country's individual data in millions of dollars can be delivered at any moment, so don't think I'm gonna be lazy at any moment to go out for this pay phone and give every data that's incorrectly denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5262	Mr. Matić, you've caused a lot of replicas today. National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and MP Slavoljub Matic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5263	Mr. Albianic, I haven't received an answer for three hours to that question and to that breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a member of the 100th of our Rules of Procedure and of Rule 194. The president of the National Assembly Mr. Dulic tried something to... In fact, he didn't even try anything, but he ran away, poor guy, and he doesn't know what's gonna happen. I really need to draw your attention to some things. At the beginning, I would like to inform Mrs Pesic: with the first part of your presentation and those closing sentences I fully agree, although in every respect we are on different sides of politics, we have the diametrically opposite views and interests of this bill. If I keep saying something that you don't like, you know I'm not saying it for you, I'm talking about this government. My people, understand, you in the National Assembly first of all, the challenges we face. I haven't started talking about the CEFTA agreement yet. The time will come for CEFTA, don't worry, we have an hour and a half. You'll hear quite an argument about it. But the government is manipulating the National Assembly and the public, and in order for that manipulation to succeed, I explained to you this morning that they have applied an operation called Dinkic. Here's what operations are called Dinkic. I'm reading your paper, July 20th, 2004. When asked by journalists to resent Mr Dinkic for not clearing up with this crime, he says, members of the Anti-Corruption Council have asked us to support them in the initiative to ban judges working on the Sartid case for life from doing this job and to get our support. Personally, I do not believe that the domestic judiciary is capable of such a move, especially after the Supreme Court's decision to return Goran Kljajevic to the post of President of the Trade Court. As far as I know, according to these latest texts, there's a relative named Labus for Sartid. What's that? When are you supposed to trust Dinkic? (President: Without evidence, Mr. Krasic, do not present unverified information. ) Mr. Albianic, I promised you ten minutes ago that I would leave you these books to read, since you have trouble reading. You're a mathematician, you better handle numbers, but I'll leave you here. (President: The figures say 3 minutes and 15 seconds. () Yes, but those same figures say that you interrupted the speaker and committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you had no right to. I know you have party urges, but that's your personal problem, not the issue of the National Assembly. You sometimes don't distinguish personal problems from the problem of the state. Please, someone's trying to tell us about the CEFTA agreement. Do you know what CEFTA is, respected citizens? It's very nicely packed goods, which have nice packaging, you can see on TV. You're constantly encouraged by the hope that you'll have it as soon as possible. When you take that, you open that gift, you see the fool inside. That's what happened on October 5th. Something very nice was offered, a nice cellophane, and after seven years, as Mr. Canak said in 2000 -- shut your nose and vote for DOS. In time, he told you what DOS is. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) I expect answers, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5264	They're getting ready. Have you given up, Mr. Matrix? Thank you, Mr. Matić, for the construction. The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, in order of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5265	You started shutting down before we even got... (President: I apologize again. It won't help you, believe me, absolutely. I wanted to say hello to the minister, but I don't have a chance, so you tell him I'm okay, which I want him to. Mr Milan Nikolic, the mandated representative of the SPS on the proposal to ratify the CEFTA agreement, said this is like a dark villa – if you come in, you'll regret it, if you don't come in, you'll regret it. I have to say that's the measure of things, because it really is. If you had a sufficient number of MPs yesterday so you voted for a single search in connection with this point and the law, then we could talk more easily about this issue, but let me say a few things about it, so I won't when it's this second law. Tandem Djelic-Vlahović 2001/2002. He made one of the most harmful procedures in Serbia's economy: the first one suggested that amendments be made to the Excise Law and that the excise duty should be abolished. domestic cigarettes, and several days later Vlahovic sold all of the country's tobacco capacities, once called a monopoly. At that time, the state of Serbia was left without a fiscal potential of one billion, and those who bought one and another tobacco industry (I am talking about DIN and DIV, so Nis and Vranj) were promised, under protectionist conditions, to the contrary to economic and market logic, that in this country a certain number of years, and that number of years still continues, would function under the conditions that they had personally requested. Now that our country is forced to sign this agreement of CEFTA and when our country is treated, a complete country, as a laboratory (and people invented laboratories to try on a small sample the negative consequences of some phenomenon), so now that we're a complete laboratory for those who force us to do this, large tobacco mags force us to change and supplement the conditions under which they became owners of the tobacco monopoly, so that they don't have economic damage. That's the point, and I'm willing to talk about this in other places, if you'd be kind enough to give me a decent conversation. So today there is neither Mr Djelic nor Mr Vlahovic. I would like to say that what they did then has inconceivable consequences (as well as this around Sartid, and it has been sold by Vlahovic) in the economy of Serbia and its economic position in the future. All of this can be subject to different measurements, measurements, clarifications on whether our country should sign an agreement that should, in a sense, facilitate economic, commercial and commercial business. Of course you should. Is that how it should be done to protect its economy? You should, too. It is necessary to be wise and to find enough strength and to make an appropriate decision for this country that will be least harmful, if it is possible to bring some benefit, then it is not rustic. Also, I pray once again, since several times there have been words from the Government – nothing the MPs have done to any one second delay, not one question in the press these days, as something that has depended on us. On the contrary, parties forming power today in the Republic of Serbia by organising and implementing an election campaign claimed that as soon as they sat down in the cabinet they would immediately comply with all the constitutional law, that they would elect members of the Constitutional Court, the Board of Governors, the State Audit Committee, etc., to do whatever is necessary for Serbia to get 40, 50, 90 laws in the first 150 days. So, they lied to you, respected citizens, they didn't write anything, their writers either changed sides or they didn't have anything to write. Then Mladjan Dinkic, as a famous and well-known shouter of senior titles in the DOS and this other coalition, reports to the public that parliament is the only culprit because the government cannot work effectively, because there is no one to adopt their proposals. I have to say, I couldn't wait to get my hands on the pay phone and explain it to people, because it just doesn't make sense, because it's a pure lie and because it's not the first time for Mladjan Dinkic to do it. So, just let him tell the truth, I'm glad. But this is about serious questions. They can do it two or three times, drop a smoke bomb and say the MPs are guilty, but they're not worth it, they're short feet in a lie. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, if you agree that the minister is muddying you every day in the press and saying something that is absolutely not true, we can also be your lawyers, with your permission. It's not true what Mladjan Dinkic says. Mladjan Dinkic is lying. All that was here in connection with the activities of the MPs is a pure lie. It is a shame that this parliament does not take any position, that absolutely no one will plead, but rather wait for him to come here and apologize to no one. I urge you to plead on the CEFTA proposal on your conscience and on the basis of your party's political programme, but to vote in favour of the National Assembly law, to prevent the finance minister and the economy minister from holding parliament for ten years in chess position. I hope we do it in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5266	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then MP Marko Milenkovic. Mr. Krassic, would you be so kind as to leave that material with me?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5267	Mr. Albianic, if you were going to really take this material, then you had to turn off the microphone, because you were not authorized to raise any personal doubts about Mr. Dinkic in a public place, and I wouldn't recommend it because of your future status in the party, and he was shaking for a long time, since you could only be in the 17th row election campaign, you couldn't even talk. I protect you, protect you from Mladjan Dinkic and Ivana Dulic, since she has long had her eye on you. Of course, not in that sense, but to eliminate him because he was playing in a car with "Prepared, Prepare, Chetniks", and that's in G17 a serious injury. In addition to looking for an answer to the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which I pointed to in time, I would ask you, Mr Albianic, to pay attention to Article 225 of Rule 1 and in accordance with that Rule of Procedure, to be informed, but I would not like to be informed by you, I would not like to be informed by anyone else, I publicly say that I want to be informed by Vojislav Kostunica. I know he's not here, but I know there's a duty of service to deliver this intervention of mine and to be aware of what I'm looking for, what kind of notice I'm looking for. Why am I looking for this kind of notice, which is very important before voting and discussing this law? Because Mr Dinkic, as finance minister, said on August 27th 2004, that there are lords from Seattle. Not to read that text, because Albianic is going to get hurt. Then a few days later, he talked about some shadow rulers, and he was in power all the time. He didn't clear up who these rulers are, how they rule, who they rule over, etc. If they knew Mr. Rajko Baralić, Mrs. Vesna Pesic and others who are angry with Dinkic for saying so, he is this parole that the Assembly has come up with the blame on Corfu, the place is Ipsos, the cafe "Kalipso". That's where he figured out how to criticize you for being on vacation. He was on vacation. So, under some foreign influence, he attacked... (President: How do you know this information? Were you there? I'll explain that to you when you turn off the microphone, Mr. Albianic, to the details of who he was sitting with in the café. He was my man, of course. You know I'm a well-informed man. I know everything about what's going on. To discuss this bill, we need to know what happened to the National Savings, what happened to the banks, what happened to "Sartid"... (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. It's time to get the information, I'm saying it, Mr. Albianic. We have been looking for this information for a long time, because for this reason, Cyprus's representatives named Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic, Velimir Ilic, the entire Democratic Party called him. For what? He crashed DS, you know, by the end of 2003. You know what the affair was about whether he was going to be governor in continuity. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) I'm sorry, please, you're a young man, Mr. Albianic, in politics is a very important experience and a long memory. Why long memory? If you only remember from today until tomorrow, then you'll forget what a person's character is and what it defines as a policy dealing, whether moral motives are involved in politics. I have learned, and it is informally said by Mr Dinkic's best friends that he is in front of a great dilemma – either he will be in power or he will be in prison. That's what his best friends say, the experts he came with, and of course, they're gonna help me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5268	Thank you, Mr. Krassic, for your exposure, your time is long gone. National MP Marko Milenkovic has a word and then a National MP, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5269	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the FTA in Central Europe - CEFTA at the very least is harmful to our country and citizens, with several aspects, and first of all from the aspect of state integrity and sovereignty, where the state of Serbia is directly threatened, because Kosovo is as an independent party, the signator of an international contract, regardless of what UNMIK signs on behalf of Kosovo, that is no excuse. So, you today, in the course of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, allow yourself to appear as an equal partner to Serbia in an international contract. I don't think it's too late for you to correct your intentional or accidental state-of-the-art mistake today and withdraw the agreement. When your Prime Minister in Bucharest signed CEFTA for Serbia, it was automatically, according to all international law standards, applied to both Kosovo and Metohija. Judging by the first ratification by CEFTA of Albania and UNMIK on behalf of Kosovo, we are all clear, you are inexorably bringing Serbia to ruin. The following objections by the SRS parliamentary groups concern the economically harmful consequences of our economy which will produce the entry into force of this agreement. First, the suspension of customs duties will significantly reduce customs revenues. In all sectors of the economy, and first in agriculture and industry, due to the rapid growth of imports and its impact on our products, there will be strong competition that many of our producers will drown and therefore leave many people out of work. It is quite likely that CEFTA will cause serious damage to domestic production and serious market disturbances. In what we were strongest, we will become weak, and where we were weak, it will be completely destroyed. Imagine agricultural producers from Pcinjsko, Jablaničko, Nisavsky and Toplička County, which, for example, in the municipality of Žitorajje from Dobrič's most fertile land cannot extract profits that would make up for their work and funds. So imagine these people and the situation they will find themselves in when the market is flooded with fruits and vegetables from Macedonia. You know what will happen to these people, what will they live on? Probably the same as hundreds of thousands who have been out of work since 2000. The state of Serbia must, and will do so with the SRS, according to our farmers, introduce protective, protectionist measures. Well, they're Serbian citizens, not your enemies. Of course, there is a "positive" side to this agreement, which is that it will benefit from an import lobby, which is working hard to become a consumer society, with all the negative consequences it brings, a warehouse for foreign goods and finally move into debt slavery. Article 1 of this Agreement, when it comes to the objectives of the CEFTA Agreement, states that it contributes to the coherent development and expansion of world trade. The expansion of world trade certainly is, but consistent development in no way. Bosnia protected some of its agricultural products and introduced 40 per cent customs duties on meat and milk originating in Serbia, and the Serbian government was only important that NIS remain the only oil importer, of course, in order to be sold more profitablely in the future privatisation process. It should be openly said that, with CEFTA, only large agreements remain, and only those privileged by the state summit. For small people who carry a country on their backs there is no future; they will, in addition to economy, agriculture and industry, be collateral damage. Competition is good, positive, but then when you have a strong production and a strong economy, otherwise you disappear. I do not agree with you even when you say CEFTA encourages foreign investment, because itself officials and negotiators from some CEFTA countries have admitted that Serbia is very interesting to them because of duty-free exports to Russia, where we as a state and without CEFTA are attractive to foreign investment and investors and thanks again to Russia. We don't need CEFTA to protect intellectual property. We need laws and their respect and implementation. The Serbian Radical Party warns you and warns against sacrificing domestic economy at the expense of neighbouring countries. Let's look at Romania, which came out of CEFTA and on January 1st this year, becoming an EU member, where it is on a scale of economically developed countries capable of adequately competing in domestic production with other EU members. If CEFTA is a prerequisite for joining the EU and if the withdrawal of 15% of our territory is a prerequisite for joining the EU, we must say, as a responsible country, that we do not need either CEFTA or the EU. The Stability Pact Coordinator of Southeast Europe, some Erhard Busek, cannot say – if you want to compete outside the region, you need to go to the European market through regional co-operation. We have to say that we don't want to compete, not under these conditions and in this way. We Serbian radicals want our people to live better and to set priorities as a state in export production, and there are markets wherever we turn. There are Russia, China, India, the Arab world, African countries, Latin American countries. So we don't have to rebuild the former SFRY through CEFTA, who knows which path to Serbia's harm. Only in this way will citizens pick up the fruits of economic development and the budget surplus very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5270	The People's MP Dragan Vujadinovic has the word, and then the MP Radovan Milovankic. You'll get your word right after this speaker. (Zoran Krasic: I want to talk to the Rules of Procedure. I demand you turn on my microphone. Mr. Krassic, please step away from the pay phone. (Zoran Krasic: I want to talk to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5271	You need to know that I've reported to the Rules of Procedure and you've warned me to stop, there's no need, and then you deliberately called this MP neither guilty nor due, the man is on his way here unnecessarily, not knowing that we already have communication and that I answered in time. It is now a well-known scenario – allegedly, radicals are now obstructing the National Assembly, you know, they are primitive and simple. That's that stereotype he's resting on... (President: I didn't say that, Mr. Krassic, that's what you said. I know what you think and what you can do. I haven't received an answer since I was 100 yet, but since you're pushing yours and I have to do something, so I'm taking the opportunity to call in Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that this member exists because, during the amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure, it was installed by a democratic bloc counting on it to be the largest democratic fluid. This member allows me to publicly ask from this place not to answer the question but to explain - from whom, of course, Vojislav Kostunica. You'll give him a nice stenogram, so he can inform the MPs so they can do their duty properly. What's he gonna tell us about? Did Mr Dinkic represent the government of the Republic of Serbia on 23 October 2004, when he made a statement in which he attacked, imagine, even the patriarch Paul? I say neither publicly nor secretly, but Patriarch Paule visited the Vatican and that John Paul II was alive at the time, and he would have visited Serbia. I'm interested in what Vojislav Kostunica thinks about it, whether it's true or not. I can't use any other word, because, you know, lustration comes down to miss choices, with the nicest moving. Mr. Baralic, you just used one word that you'll probably be sued for, you know. It's a novelty. Now, if in a political struggle someone is used by a court to protect their own architectural personality type, then that's another thing. I had nothing to do with it. Speaking of which, it would be good for Mr. Kostunica to tell me what it means that Mr. Batic said – Labus was overjoyed by Dinkic. I don't know what Batic meant when he said it, but he said it at a time when Dinkic was the finance minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. So, he got busted for Dinkic, and where he found the solution - evicted. (President: Time's up, Mr. Krasic. Of course, I respect the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5272	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, and then by MP Dragan Vujadinovic. I apologize, Mr. Vujadinovic, since MP Batic has just arrived.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5273	The honourable chairman, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, is an important topic on the agenda, and it should be one of the first tests on Serbia's path to European integration. Of course, there's only a mixed order of moves or pots. There's supposed to be a prime minister here, who's also a signator of the CEFTA agreement, but he doesn't have time. He is trying to score cheap political points while waiting at Djokovic Airport. Well done, Djokovic, illuminated Serbia in all the fields it fought on. But it's cheap politics of a man who doesn't even know how to play tennis, never held a racket in his hand. He figures it's good to take a picture, 'cause someone can fool around and think he's got something to do with sports. Lucky he welcomed Djokovic, because whoever he escorts to a competition, there is no saving it. I told the basketball players in one column, they could return home immediately because they were blessed by Vojislav Kostunica. But a joke aside. There is no Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Mr Bozidar Djelic's European integration here. He's dealing with the universe again. The top of the government has been put into some sports competitions, and problems and issues as much as you want. Here, there's Minister Dinkic. I don't know why. I think the wrong memo came from the government here. If Mr Dinkic were in favour of the tobacco law, I could still understand that because of his connections with the company "Japan Tobacco" or "Japan Tobacco", because of the opening of their tobacco factory in Senti, etc. It's kind of like him. He's traveling to Japan on the cost of Japan Tobacco with a bunch of reporters. There will be stories in front of some other institutions, not just in parliament. It would all be cheerful, as you can see, if it weren't tragic. It's tragic, as I said, because this is the first test we need to pass towards European integration. I must tell you that Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia and UNMIK, on behalf of Kosovo, ratified an agreement on the CEFTA free trade zone. Bulgaria and Romania as members of the European Union do not have to ratify it, as they automatically joined the CEFTA by signing the agreement. Only the unfortunate Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia remained, with the government's will and willless parliament. Why has the Government not submitted before to the National Assembly a draft law on the ratification of the CEFTA agreement? Because he honestly doesn't want to. Because the one whose national brand is Guca, where I think best of all about Guca, but they don't think so, because the most sold goods in Guca were not discs with trumpet music and trumpet orchestras, but T-shirts with characters Mladic and Legion... There was a prime minister on these events, and therefore CEFTA is not in the same matrix, because it is something else. It's a free flow of goods, people, ideas. That's competitiveness. It's the introduction of rules, legal order, security in the trade zone. It's an incentive for employment, faster technological development of production. That is all that does not correspond to those who do not want to join in European integration. Because what Vladivostok has to do with other places with European integration. They act on that old maxi – give the right blinker, but turn left. At the end of September, it should be a ministerial council, and if Serbia had done this before, it would have been a full member of the CEFTA. But he does it reluctantly, because he doesn't know where to be, whether to be Nagorno Karabah, Chechnya or part of the new Soviet Union, or to shyly try to play on a map of European integration. That's the problem. That is why the government is also playing MPs and, worse still, Serbian citizens. There's another important reason. He won't be able to hunt in a blur. Government tycoons, none of them do production. They're all dealing with the transgie-frange trade, and when the trade order is introduced, then their monopoly at the store won't have that significance either. That's why all of this here is a big con, one big, colorful lie that the government is responsible for. Of course, as president of the Democratic Party of Serbia and as a member of the LDP parliamentary club, I will vote for this, but not because the government wants it, but precisely because the government does not want it, but out of necessity it is trying to do so in this parliament. So this is a test that this government, which deals with itself and not with Serbia and its citizens, has not yet passed and will hardly pass it. Speaking of European integrations, when you listen to Bozidar Djelic speaking with great respect about the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I must remind you that the agreement was signed four years ago by Albania. Well, if anyone thinks it's a big range, they're wrong. I'll say one more thing. Let's not fool the citizens anymore. The signing of the agreement is only a very small, first and not very important step towards European integration. Do not listen to a woman who responds to the name Tanja Misčević and every night when she appears, Malten, we are the most important member of the European Union, and in part there is nothing and there will be no until the main brand in Guca is Ratko Mladic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5274	The LDP parliamentary group remains another minute. National MP Dragan Vujadinovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5275	Dear Messengers, who wait, welcome. Here, and I've been waiting to go out for a pay phone. I may have naively thought that this would be the point where, when voting, the screen would turn green and the law of the left and right sides would unite here in view of this agreement. Unfortunately, for the time being, it's hardly going to happen, although the time remains for the vote to actually happen. A good direction towards the goal was shown by Mr Milan Nikolic, as the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, as part of the opposition, saying there are many potential dangers that every European integration brings. But integrations are an economic imperative, we have no other options and in this sense potential advantages, potential gains far outweigh the dangers that can arise from this integration, which is the first step towards that great integration called the EU and other integrations. What I expected was that both the left and right sides would strongly criticise the government as a pronoun because the CEFTA accession agreement did not appear on the agenda earlier, so that we would now become full members of the CEFTA and that we would not be the last to sign this agreement. Mr. Batic said it wasn't Bosnia. And Bosnia has ratified the agreement. So, we are left to talk about ourselves, in some of our constant, traditional hyperbole, as a leader, to finally sign an agreement on regional economic integration. If we speak by conscience, regardless of who the parties come from, it is difficult to find an argument to prove the harmfulness of some credit lines and this agreement, as the representatives of the right-hand side say in this case. KWF bank, the German Development Bank, gives a loan that is 40% completely free, so when it is divided, it gets an interest rate that is 50% below the market; Eurobor plus 2.5 - 3% as the lowest interest rate; if we get 50% lower interest rate and it is conditioned to buy equipment from Germany, so what's wrong with that, the equipment is from Germany, not from China, it's not from Romania. Last year we had a credit line for equipment from Italy, which was simply torn apart. So Italy credited the import of equipment from Italy. That loan simply went on, gentlemen, because legal persons normally borrowed and bought equipment from a good manufacturer. That's why I think it's really weird, for example, I would never allow myself to defend this year's budget that's overheated, haired and practically forced. At the moment of adoption, there was no choice, but because of this, gentlemen on the right, if they want to speak honestly, can't because of the weaknesses of the first government, the second, the third, which exist, criticise what is totally right, what is Serbia's first step towards integration, towards the free market; they will have to prove at any cost that it is harmful. It is, unfortunately, the fate of our Parliament and with that fate of our Parliament we really cannot go to this Europe. The free market is the mother of the economy. As that Greek philosopher said, "Man is the measure of all things" (Protagora, Plotin, I don't know, Marina can say his name), so in the economy is the free market of all things. All what colleagues have said about weaknesses, about monopolies, about corruption, about tycoons, about unemployment, about insufficient investment is solved by a free market. It can't be protected through customs by domestic industry and agriculture for a hundred years, it's protected for 20, 30 years, but it has to be made a free market for this very domestic industry and that domestic agriculture to be competitive. It's an axiom of the economy, it can't be discussed. The theorems are discussed and axioms are easily proven. Indeed, I, as an economic analyst, fully independent, even though I mean independent, was a dear discussion of Milan Nikolic, who says – there are many potential dangers, but all these potential dangers, such as transition victims, are far below what is profit, which are advantages, which are advantages. We get EUR 1. Do you know what EUR 1 means? The goods of origin, where Serbia will not only participate with 50%, but accumulate, are accumulated, receive EUR 1 cumulatively and enter without customs duty on the third market. Do you know what that is? Whoever worked in the economy, who worked in export, he knows it's something amazing, believe me. Or why this group of 25 to 30 million people and with territory several times larger than Serbia, why not, will become a free trade zone, but why not be an investment zone, why not be South Korea, why? We can't because of the government's weakness, because of corruption and possible theft, we can't say it's not our only direction. That, gentlemen, is our only direction, we have no other direction. If we had... Please, you know who he is, you talk about them, but it has nothing to do with the CEFTA agreement. Gentlemen, if otherwise could not the Czech Republic now have an average profit of 2,000 euros. What other country that was in CEFTA so entered the Union that she sought, as you say, proved the harmfulness of entering CEFTA, or the Union, which country is that? We spoke when Slovenia came out – you will beg us to return; so we said when Croatia came out, and we kept talking – you will beg us to return, and instead we were alone. It turns out, according to some theories, that Serbs only like to trade with themselves. Well, with that store, that philosophy only leaves empty shelves, jars of jam and cheap cookies, that's all that's left. That's what we know, in Russia, that's how it was, in Poland, there were empty shelves left, in an indigenous economy that was acting autistic. Therefore, gentlemen, we should all demand that we seek responsibility from the government for being late with the CEFTA accession agreement so much time and that we demand that we make the free market as quickly as possible, as a mother of the economy. Without it, we are all lost, and MPs, and government, and all together, and all our people. Because if it weren't for that, I repeat, and I end up with that, then other nations would... Convince the other peoples, gentlemen, that they may come out of these agreements. Why no one will leave the Union, why everyone says – my only, fundamentally, priority is the EU. There are no people in Europe who haven't said that. Well, what do we want, to whom do we prove? Therefore, I would really like to appeal to my colleague Tabakovic, who is preparing for a replica, to speak by conscience. The weaknesses of the government and the weaknesses of politicians of any kind cannot be used to make something that is pure, such as the KFW bank credit line or CEFTA agreement, attack unargumented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5276	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. One small intervention, axiomas are not proven, theorems prove to be because Mr. Shami, a professor, frowned on mathematics. Replica, MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5277	When Mr. Vujadinovic comes out, I always get a chance for a little replica, but the headaches get his colleagues from the Parliament club. I feel called for a loan from KFW Bank, from the German Development Bank, which in a very smart way (so I praise them and I am angry with our country for not doing the same) credits the export of its producers. What I have to replicate for you is that the conditions are not so far off and that they are not in the mist domain, although they are very skillfully covered in the way they are formulated. I claimed that the moment we discussed that interest agreement on those funds was at least 6% a year. Do you, Mr. Vujadinović, know how much the euro is? About 4%, which is added to 2% of the basic costs, not to mention 0.5 times. Remember, I've collected how many fines we paid as a state last year, expressed in nearly billions of dinars, for unused tranches of already approved loans from KFW Bank, the German Development Bank. So, don't lead the citizens astray that it's about the most favourable loans, because it's not. One more thing I have to say is, it's not right for you as an economist to question the quality of German, Italian, Chinese or any other goods. I can totally accidentally bring out the information, I'm employed in Telecom, which imported Chinese Huaway equipment two years ago, equipment that is very successfully installed and functioning. Mrs. Angela Merkel, from one of the countries you see as the sun, but which you don't see when you're guarding national, state and economic interests, is with that same firm, and after Telecom, signed a $30m contract for importing the same equipment and won the competition of 20 foreign companies. What you're saying is that we have to stand up for this at all costs, because it provides competition, it's just not something that's meant to be. You know they're also private companies, and we're evidence, very prone to creating cartels and monopolys whenever possible. I find one particularly interesting. I will talk tobacco when we talk about tobacco, and today I will only bring to you the fines paid in the EU by the European Commission from the Austrian banks. Eight Austrian banks were fined with 124.5m euros in 2005 because they agreed at secret meetings on the interest rate of loans given to citizens. The word is that in our country there is a clear space for banks and the moss there are Austrian banks. What did we get by opening and destroying the domestic banking system: the competition that gave the lower interest? I don't know where you live, but you and I seem to live in two different countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5278	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's MP Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5279	Mr. Albianic, I am using the opportunity provided by Article 226 and again I ask you to forward what I am about to tell Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, because I believe he is the only one who is competent to respond, because the timing of this government representative's behaviour coincides with his prime ministerial position means that he also covers 2004. I'll give you what I promised you later. He says, "Mihajlovic and Milic left a 150m-euro debt." There are a lot of articles here - Davinić, and this one, and that one, scattered, so Mr Dinkić etc. All MPs of the National Assembly would be extremely pleased to receive an answer from Vojislav Kostunica how many criminal charges have been filed against Mladjan Dinkic so far since he was in kind of the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the first question. Another question to which I ask the answer: Who filed all the criminal charges and for what? The third answer I ask: has the government established his immunity? If it is, when, in what case, what happened to those criminal charges, what's the outcome? I hope you realize that's part of it. I know he used the opportunity, as finance minister, to sue everyone and everyone. I think Batic's been sued, too. I may have made a mistake, Brother, I'm sorry if I made a mistake, but I think I did. He was suing where he came from. That's the urge. (President: Why are you as a lawyer afraid of lawsuits? You've made a lot of mistakes, Mr. Albianic. No one's won a lawsuit against me. They all lost court disputes, and there were three thousand and something, since I was professionally doing that job. Shut up, cover up, you're not informed. I'm well informed, you know I have something in every pocket. Given that I am going to talk a little more about the market in the follow-up session, I am taking the opportunity, according to Article 226, to end these violations of the Rules of Procedure and ask the question and ask Mr Jocic for an answer – when will he be arrested by Mladjan Dinkic?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5280	National MP Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure and then MP Vladan Batic, replicas the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic, who mentioned him by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5281	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of article 94. My rules of procedure, and I'm asking that I don't count on time when I quote. Article 94 says, "The total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours. The time set out in Article 1 is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group." I have to draw your attention, I am truly convinced that this happened by accident, or by accident, that you did not take good account of the time that the LDP MP group used. Vladan Batic did speak for six minutes, but Mrs Vesna Pesic spoke for three minutes. (President: Mr Batic spoke for seven minutes, and Mrs Pesic spoke for five minutes. Vesna Pesic talked for three minutes. Mr. Albianic, you are wrong and I hope you will correct this mistake during today's session. I'd say this bill on the CEFTA validation agreement is very important, but unfortunately it's too late. All these nine months, I've been expecting from the prime minister, first of all, and now the Deputy Prime Minister, that through a media campaign in public, he'll explain to the citizens why he's important. There are many aspects that make it important, especially because it can make our country a leader in the Western Balkans and when it comes to foreign investment. It can also provide citizens with some favourable things such as a cheaper consumer basket. Mrs. Pesic mentioned it and I have to repeat it, it has recently been found that in the Czech capital, the consumer basket is cheaper by 30% than in Belgrade. I think it's important to our citizens. Also, public procurement. This is important, let's say, that something that happened during the previous government's call, that is, when we introduced fiscal cash registers, or GPRS. Only one image of the monopoly to show: when the GPRS was introduced, only two producers were given the opportunity to sell, i.e. the taxpayers who introduced the fiscal cash registers could only from two producers to introduce the GPRS. So that's how the monopoly was made. So, the LDP will support this agreement, but I really doubt the good intentions, above all the prime minister and the government itself, as far as the implementation of this agreement is concerned. Now I'll tell you why. I really don't believe that Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Miskovic have a great interest in this agreement being implemented. If they had great interest, they would not have allowed a month and a half, since July 23rd, we wait for this agreement to come to the Assembly, or to discuss it. That is why, among other things, you, Mr. Matic, made a mistake when you spoke the way you spoke, and in particular Minister Dinkic made a mistake. I'm sorry he's not in the O.R., but I hope his first associates will pass it on to him, and so will you, Mr. Chairman. I ask him to apologize to the MPs for what he said the other day. It's not enough for us to talk about it, Mr Dinkic has to go out for a pay phone and apologize publicly to all of us. It's not our fault we don't work, it's the government's fault, who hasn't prepared the laws the MPs are supposed to discuss here. I think that's the only truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5282	The word is by MP Vladan Batic, a replica to the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5283	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mr. Krasic directly mentioned me and even called me, although I rarely report for replicas, I will answer what he has asked as some kind of question. This has to do with today's debate and what I said in the opening statement, that it surprises me why the government's representative for this item of the agenda, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, when it could have been the prime minister, who signed the CEFTA agreement, is the Deputy Prime Minister, who is in charge of European integration, the minister of trade, in connection with the free trade zone agreement. But it was Mladjan Dinkic. I said it was probably a mistake of a technical nature, that it was wrongly sent from the government to be a representative of this agenda point. It should be for the next item of the agenda, concerning the tobacco law, because the minister of general practice is an expert in tobacco, especially for that firm called "Japan Tabaco". I answer Mr. Krasic's question the following way. It is true, for abuses and millions of malfeasances concerning the privatisation and sale of the National Savings Bank and the shut-down of four major state banks, which again have special ties to the CEFTA agreement, I filed a criminal complaint against Mladjan Dinkic on May 19th 2005 with the then special prosecutor for organised crime, Mr. Jovan Prijic, and I arrested Mladjan Dinkic for the criminal charges. Also, on that occasion, I filed a criminal report for money laundering through the HVB bank account, and for a company from the Caymans or the Seasel Islands, where even UBOPK did everything, collected all the evidence but the criminal procedure was never launched, against Mladjan Dinkic and against former election headquarters chief Miroljub Labus, it seems to me to be Bojan Zecevic. This man is prone, he's nowhere in public anymore, but the object is magically detached. Why? Because in both cases, the chief of UBOPOK is young Dinkic's friend Mladen Spasic. That's how it spins in circles. Against all three, both Ministers Stojkovic and Jocic, I have filed criminal charges for unauthorized arrest and deprivement of freedom and abuse of official office, and no one at all. I spoke to former special prosecutor for organised crime Slobodan Radovanovic, who told me that information and evidence was being collected in UboPOK for the criminal charges, as soon as they arrived. I filed several months ago and a criminal report for the robbery of the century in which some previously participated, and concerning the Cypriot couples, relations, for which Dinkic was not to blame, and non-refuse, for which Mladjan Dinkic is the most responsible. Prosecutor Radovanovic also told me that everything that needs to be done will be done there, but let's see if his successor tries to do something about it. He accused me of, as I heard, Mladjan Dinkic of what I said from this pay phone about the tobacco trade, but when it comes to the tobacco law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5284	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5285	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I've reported in accordance with Article 225. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, paragraph 1. The company called "Universada" has purchased 125,000 suits from "Vartex" - Varazdin, not using any of the procedures under the Public Procurement Act, although it is the beneficiary of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the city of Belgrade. Since I have the right to be informed of all the issues that interest me and taxpayers, I ask how it is possible and whether it is between a company called "Universiada"... It's not a sports event that is a University, it's a company that needs to provide logistics for this event. How is it possible that before the signing of the CEFTA agreement between our country and Croatia it works so smoothly to buy 125,000 suits, to pay in advance and to the director of that company last night said that he has no obligation to respect the Public Procurement Act, because he also has funds from sponsors? How does this separate money in one account and know exactly what the sponsor's funds are, and what are the funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the city of Belgrade? I hope that someone will do us a favor with the answers about this, because in Serbia, manufacturers of easy plasma cobulation, but obviously this is not about quality, but about some special circumstances that motivated this company to carry out this extra procurement in an extra period, and contrary to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5286	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic. Mr. Bayatovic, you're not exactly in line.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5287	Mr. Albianic, I accept, I understand your apology. (President: I didn't apologize. I was asked by Zarko Obradovic. Thank you, Mr. Albianic. One small crackdown, if we chair, might not be too bad to paint the left and right, according to counterpart Dragan Vujadinovic of the DS, but for another proposal if the chairman permits me. It wouldn't be a bad idea for him to sit here, as we expose, a writer from the Ministry of the Interior and one authorised person from UBOPK, or I don't know where he might be from, which could be right after the MP's presentation, since we're talking about things here and the ministries aren't responding, to write immediately to the appropriate investigative judges the warrants and to keep it regularly informed to the Assembly. I know MPs aren't in charge of arrest, they're not in charge of investigation, I don't interfere with these three types of government, judicial, legislative and executive, but it's very interesting that there's a lot of things out here and there's no reaction to that. However, I know MPs can't be punished for the words spoken for this pay phone, but we probably answer morally. No such claims can be made, and since 5 October, other than that of the minister who trampled a SPS member at a traffic light, no other minister has had to resign, and newspapers are full of affairs. Since there's been talk here about various ideological aspects and everything else, if at least we're going to talk seriously about this CEFTA agreement, maybe we should take a look at history a little bit. When a critical summit of leaders of Western Balkan countries was organised, Serbia "gets by the ears" because it intended to create a free trade zone, but by agreeing on it by the Western Balkan countries. You all remember what happened after the Kritski Summit, I'm not talking about actors, etc. Today we have this agreement extended to one or two countries, which is later likely because of the delay in the translation service. Why do I say that? Well, I'm absolutely sure that the pro-European orientation of this government or the one before it, and the one before it, corresponds to one of these agreements, but the translators didn't translate it in time. Neither did our government write it, nor did we complain much about it, something we seemingly agreed on on some tourist trips, at least that's how I understood it, and I'm quite certain, gentlemen MPs and ladies or comrades of the Parliament, that the CEFTA's delay in the agreement is the translation service. Furthermore, what this agreement does, neither to sign it nor to sign it, because it is not our problem to go to the European Union, is the state of our economy. Those who defend this agreement, with me not attacking it, it's a good signal to Europe, we send a bunch of good signals to Europe, and it suits us as well, and especially now... So, it's not a problem, this comes into effect in 2010, we need to adopt this, so if we don't like it, we might, with the help of some other government, come out as Bosnia and Herzegovina does. But the problem is that it's been going on here for eight years now, the privatisation process of the Serbian economy characterized as a burazer, robbery, settlement, whatever you want. What matters to us socialists is two items. First, that the process was socially unfair and, which disturbs the CEFTA agreement to be fully in the role of Serbia's interest, economically inefficient. It is not a problem for Serbia to be an economic, intellectual or other leader in the region. One of the most serious problems is that this privatisation was economically inefficient. It has not led to the introduction of new technologies, no new employment, no efficient management, no fresh capital, no new products. What are we going to Europe with? Remember, European products will come here without what few customs restrictions we have so far. All several previous governments had a good will to apply the European Union's recommendations. Recommendations aren't binding, but they're part of sending good signals. So we left agriculture and some branches of our industry unprotected. I do not think it is possible to ensure that Serbian agriculture survives if it is exposed to dumped products from Europe, and this government is unable to provide any subsidies. So there's the problem. Here Serbia is crucified between the need to sign a CEFTA agreement and thus send a good signal to whether the Serbian economy, Serbian society and political relations in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which are completely unstable, can bear the application of such an agreement, with the presence of the tycoon and with the obvious interests of the import lobby. Dear colleague Dragan here said that when they weighted, interest would be 50% lower. Why doesn't Mr Dinkic, who is currently away, make an effort, along with this famous Governor Jelasic, to abolish the oligopolie of banks? Jelasic, not you, Mr. Krasic. Mr. Jelasic and Mr. Dinkic are away. If the oligopoli banks were to be abolished and the guarantees for the operations of these banks here would indeed be their banking facilities, not $5m in capital, then the money market in Serbia, with all the risks that are supposed to exist here, and they're investing billions, I guess, would be different. So, to cut this whole story short, it's not a problem, gentlemen, in the CEFTA agreement, the problem is that for the past eight years, it's a jargon to say - democratic authorities, Serbia is not prepared, nor its economy, unfortunately its society, nor the state of consciousness of the average man in Serbia, nor its economic status and what is most important, is not prepared for the responsible political elite, but in Serbia there is an irresponsible political elite. This will be a problem for the implementation of the CEFTA agreement and therefore, if there is any application of this agreement, the consequences of the Serbian economy and the standards of the Serbian worker will be poor. We're supposed to vote this agreement. We'll see. But in any case, here we need to open a debate not on 100 days of government, which is led to RTS and some other media, but whether Serbia has a strategy for entering European integration, which is possible to protect our national and economic interests, or whether we will do everything on recommendations, sometimes poorly translated from English, German or any other language. In that it is slow, I am absolutely sure, among those who today in this House make up the parliamentary majority and think that with 126 votes they can do what they want and those who are heterogeneous, they are not from the same political options, but who would want Serbia to go into those integrations, but the one over and over that way that would suit Serbia more. It is clear to me, Mr Milivojevic, that Serbia is geographical in Europe, that Serbia is mentally in Europe, but our government is in South Africa, thieves, liars and criminals. Maybe it's more appropriate for you to talk like that. (President: Please, Mr. Bayatovic, don't express yourself like that. ) If you have any nicer expressions for these phenomena I will gladly use them. I didn't know about the other expressions. So, while I'm saying it because of the ruling coalition, I can see that people don't understand me, it might be easier for them to talk like this. When I talk about an irresponsible political elite, they laugh at me. When I say liars, thieves and criminals, they want me to call them different. Well, I don't know. I'm not saying it's everyone. There's always a fair world, there's always good people, but let's talk about something else. So here should be the goal of really opening up a fair story in this House about whether we should always count to 126 votes, do we need ideological stories, so G 17 for Americans, DSS and DS for Europeans, radicals for Russia, SPS and Russia and Europe? Do you think it'll take Serbia somewhere? He won't, gentlemen. Serbia only had good historical results when it had a good and clear link both to the East and to the West. For us, who should be the best part of this irresponsible political elite, this is not ideological, but the question in which Serbia's interests will best be protected. To go back to what should be the point of the CEFTA agreement. Serbia should not be against any integration, but our authority must make sure that our society, our economy, our millions and 400,000 pensioners, our millions of unemployed... Our tycoons, who accidentally, or intentionally, with the help of the authorities, have come to this amount of money and are inadequately managing it, are unable to carry out the burden of applying such an agreement. Besides, I'm sorry I don't have more time, but it could be, my colleague Milan Nikolic could show, see that in some areas of economic exchange, we are currently better at relations with Europe than we will stand at the moment when we have to apply the CEFTA agreement. I apologize, Mr. Albianic, for extending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5288	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, then the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic, then the Messenger Radovan Milovankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5289	Mr. Albianic, I'm calling on Article 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You don't need to list, worry. My main observation is that the reasoning of this bill is not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To make it clear to everyone, I'll show you, this is a bill. This proposal for a law on the first 433 pages has some text in English. English is not an official language in the Republic of Serbia. So we can easily reduce that. This is a bill -- a Serbian variant, look, and this is an explanation. Always an explanation should contain much more than text to do as clear a norm as possible, what stands here. Now someone's going to say -- it's not necessary, since this is a clear text. We don't even have a translator's certificate here to match this. Why would that certificate of credibility be necessary? Now I'm going to give an example. It seems to me he was Djelic, he was hyperactive. The Law on Public Procurement was passed, and then a problem arose, which is five members who should make some logical overall contradictory. I send a friend to the experts, these experts who got a degree waiting for water from the gutters at some theater, give him an explanation. And he waited, waited, waited, came this assistant minister in charge of these things, took out the text of the law from the drawer and said--well, these translated Slovenian version, so they misread in translation. So we don't know if that's it. Why did I object to the argument? The explanation can be anything, it stands the title down, so that's an explanation. It's the same as putting out a drawer and writing above it -- it's a supersonic plane. I wrote a supersonic plane. It's a supersonic plane. That would be the same now, he says -- that's an explanation; that's all there is, and the reasons, and constitutional basis and effects etc. To see the citizens in that thick explanation, the two sides, and we can tear this up because it doesn't serve anything... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... But this is what he says. All right, well, don't let me bother you again, Mr. Albianic, I know you have sympathy for the SRS. For example, two or three indents are given, which is going to be useful, how it's going to sound all here, and then it's said, "Consumers in the region are provided through the application of the agreement with a higher range of cheaper and more quality products." To make them cheaper than Chinese products? This convinces us Dinkic that all these products can be cheaper than Chinese. Further: "The conclusion of the agreement contributes to the political stability of the region". Signer - Albania, it is for independent Kosovo and Metohija, Croatia etc. Who are they lying to here? I apologize for using the word - they're lying, because I'm going to get another lawsuit. But you'd really have to write me some words to use for this. So, when you take all this stuff that I've ripped out here today, out of all this reason, you throw this away, you get this. You get this much, the citizens of Serbia don't get anything, and how much do those who defend this law in the assembly get, officially, as representatives of the government? I'm asking you to think about this -- how much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5290	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5291	Mr. Albianic, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 1. Rules of Procedure, to tell us what your intentions are during today, what has been informed you, or not, Aleksandar Tijanic, what you have agreed with the president who has authorized you to replace him, because the Serbian team continues with, we believe today, its successful results in volleyball matches, as well as tonight in football, but you must tell us until when you plan to have an ambush assembly, since the transfer will be interrupted at 17.30 p.m. It is obvious that Minister Dinkic is not interested in this debate either. He probably thought, when counterpart Tabakovic told him about spaghetti trade, that model, through bilateral agreements between countries that are signatories of CEFTA, that some spaghetti-vestern was in question, or something like that, which is not clear to him. But at least you explain to us, I'm counting, you're a serious man, even though you're in G17, you're chairing, you know how today's working day should continue, so that the MPs of the SRS, and they're mostly left on the list of those who are supposed to participate in the debate on the CEFTA agreement, knew how and in what way to represent the interests of citizens, which we only do in this assembly, is quite obvious. You can see that the president of your party disrespects you at all, Mr. Albianic, and that only gives you extra points in Serbian radicals. The way you've managed the Assembly so far, because you haven't turned off the microphone and when the MP goes over time, and he wants to say something serious, you've shown that you have greater democratic potential than the president himself. So continue to act in this democratic spirit today and tell us nicely until direct television broadcasts, so that we know how to participate in the work. In case Tijanic informed you that he is planning some delayed transmission, I do not know when, at what deaf hour of night, you will know that the SRS MPs will not participate and that neither he nor anyone in the National Assembly is joking with our patience. With an argument, which we have about every item of the agenda, we want to continue in this spirit and atmosphere, but also to know, and not to be told at five to 12, what is ahead of us. That's why I'm asking you to give us an answer right now, so that we know that we're getting organized and that we don't have to be running around on benches here, that we're suggesting, or that people in RTS are telling us -- that's what we're planning, and that's what's gonna scare us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5292	Thank you. The president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, informed all MPs about the extension of work after 18 hours. At the same time, he informed the MPs that a direct television broadcast was interrupted at 1750 hours and that it was a match at that time, but that immediately after the match, the delayed transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was continued, in accordance with a letter received from RTS, with such guarantees. TV broadcasts will certainly be provided throughout this session of the Serbian Parliament, which has been a practice before. Thank you. That's an explanation, repeated, because Mr Oliver Dulic's president has already given it in detail, I don't know if you've been there. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5293	Mr. Albianic, the moment the president gave that information, I was on the Defence and Security Committee, which was in session for almost two hours. But, let me tell you, I just heard from the MPs that he didn't give that information... (President: At exactly 3:00 p.m., he gave an explanation when the afternoon work was continued. ) He could read what he had drawn up, what he had agreed with someone, but the basic order and practice in this assembly was to ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups and tell them what he had received as information. Mr Dragan Todorovic was not consulted by Oliver Dulic at all yesterday or today; Oliver Dulic, without consulting the other members of the parliamentary groups himself, decided on his own to do so. Then, since it's later, under our pressures and arguments that it's pointless and that we now have one whole day's debate... However, he has no minister, he doesn't care, a man doesn't understand, he told us something that has nothing to do with the real situation, and he has no foothold in the official statistics of the Republic Institute. Today he talked about how much our exports to CEFTA countries, how much imports, and he gave incorrect data and picked up a man, which he says - I don't know anything, let's go, and you stay and talk to yourself. We now need, Mr Albianic, you say, with the guarantees of Alexander Tianic, to consider whether it will be or not. (President: Written guarantee. ( b) What written guarantee? Well, on the SRS action, in which we will collect at least a million signatures from Serbian citizens (which require a subscription) for a direct transfer of trial to our president in the Hague case, which will begin in November, the man dared to say that he will and will consider it if Tomislav Nikolic or Aleksandar Vukic acknowledge that RTS is the most watched television, if they tell him this or that. I'm supposed to trust a man like that? So no written guarantees... You signed that you would not kidnap Slobodan Milosevic and deliver him to The Hague, so you kidnapped him and took him there and there the villains killed him. Don't tell me about the written guarantees and how you play with both Serbian heroes and the representatives of the people. So, Mr. Albianic, we might be ready for you... Now, let me commend you again, for the third time today (but if you take these steps with Dulić, for God's sakes, and you will not write well), that until now you have used yourselves to the meetings of the National Assembly only to what your rights and powers are. Now Oliver Dulic has left you in defenseless grapes again, and that's not your first time. Say nicely that you will not participate and that no guarantees can interfere with the regular course of the National Assembly session. So, with all our heart, under the Serbian tricolor here and in the hearts with our volleyball players, football players and any athletes we cheer and look forward to every success, but then let's wait (as Mr. Predrag Markovic did, you know very well) to finish this game, so let's continue the work. And, it's not the same, Mr. Albianic, not in the heat of political struggle (you know it very well, like any experienced MP), when you speak and know that something is being recorded and that a delayed transmission is going to go or that you're saying and you know that at that point, you're looking at such an auditorium. Therefore, we do not want to play this way with the public work of the Assembly and do not accept it, and that you know that according to this we will do, when you say it, in 17.50.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5294	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5295	It's not that big a deal, I won't be wasting much time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the President of the Assembly isn't here. You had the opportunity to hear from the President of the Assembly himself a few days ago, among other things, from the means of public information, who said that in the coming period he would try to reach as little problems as possible and that one way to avoid problems would be to co-operate with representatives of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, he shouldn't have made any promises at all, it would have been much better, because, look, who knows which way he breaks his own promise. About this decision to continue the work of the Serbian Parliament session, I don't know. No one has informed the Serbian Radical Party, he may have notified another parliamentary group. I must inform you, and I assume that you all remember, on both sides there are MPs who have participated in the work of the National Assembly since the beginning or during these years, that direct television transmission is one of the fluids that we have fought for all together, because it was somehow a guarantee that the ruling majority will not be able to abuse public television transmissions and thus prevent Serbian citizens from seeing and hearing what is said in the Serbian Parliament. I must remind you, not without pride, in 1998, when the Serbian Radical Party was in a coalition with the SPS and the JUL, that at that time our two coalition partners wanted to be relocated publicly. Although we were in power, we opposed it and made it clear that we would not participate in the work of the Assembly unless there were public transfers. Now I'm telling you -- without wanting you to understand this in any other way, but only as a well-intentioned and for your sake, because of some time tomorrow when the relationship of power in this assembly changes -- that we will not participate in the work of the Assembly that is not directly transferred by the public service. I understand that RTS can't always plan to go into contractual obligations, related to some transmissions like sports competitions, etc., but it's not our fault. It's not particularly the opposition's fault. (President: Thank you for understanding. I'm sorry, I'm done. I think a normal work of the Assembly administration would allow it to give full information to the public service and say - we are planning meetings of the Assembly then and then, and that according to that plan and they are making a plan. We don't have that responsibility. And the fact that you're not able to agree with each other, that you're facing problems every day and that you're practically being led to a shootout, and you know it well, that we're not lying, and it's practically possible to make it known very quickly, that we're suffering right now, we're not thinking about it. We told you, the moment you created the coalition, you are unable to function, and very soon you will show it and show yourself, but you will not do it over our backs. Thus, what this congregation has fought for since 1990 certainly will not destroy you in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5296	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, please, in accordance with the powers of the President of the Assembly, take the chair seat and sit down to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5297	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5298	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, it's so much easier to do, you'll understand it much better than Mr. Albianic, I'm absolutely sure of it. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I refer to Rule 104 and to our 136th Rules of Procedure, which is a sacred letter to the chairman and to the one who organises the National Assembly session. For the sake of the public, Article 104 prohibits the violation of the dignity of the legislative body, and I now want to say that the government violates our dignity, not because of these statements from Krf or Krit, from which, from some resorts, I will explain it a little later, but rather by providing us with all sorts of things, trying to present something that reflects the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, the state interests of the Republic of Serbia; there is no difference between national and state, because of citizens to explain it. What's this about? You see, in that right and only explanation that we have received, and I have just shown you that this is about a dozen lines of text of this argument, the advantages of the conclusion of this agreement being seen in the following: first, second, third, fourth, fifth indent, and follows the words: "The confirmation that CEFTA is a good preparation for EU entry are also the fact that Slovenia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania, as members of CEFTA, have become full members of the EU". Now, if you logically interpret, the benefits of the conclusion are confirmation. What did they want to tell us? That this government is looking forward to these quoted countries entering the EU? Let them rejoice. What is the advantage that they are looking forward to, what is this advantage for the state and the people that Vojislav Kostunica is looking forward to with these flocks? They could've been looking forward to it, sat down in the government's seat over there, drank whiskey and looked forward to it. Why would their mood become a universal mood? Slovenia entered the European Union. Why do we care that Slovenia has entered the European Union? They're supposed to answer for shooting those men, 40 soldiers. Forty soldiers fired, you know. Is that what Vojislav Kostunica is looking forward to with his brother? How can such an explanation be? How can top economists and columnists vote for this? What are you looking at? It violates dignity. Why? Because we're given a cellophane pack, some kind of package that looks nice, it's all wrapped up nicely, there's a media campaign, and when you open a gift, it's a stutter, it's nothing. That's what the banks were talking about. What's happened? Pussy. Now the governor's calling - don't be in charge. In Croatia and the tie goes to the lollipop. Who should we trust? There is an apparent disunity in this government. Why? Because everyone has their own boss. I'm taking the opportunity to give a 24-hour deadline to the real boss of Mladjan Dinkic to call me on the phone. He knows my phone number. To call, and if he doesn't answer, then everything Dinkic does, he does. And you, when you experience an accident, suffer damage, report to the boss and sue the boss, not sue the asset. Let me make it a little bit simpler for people - when you get bit by a dog, you're chasing the boss, because a dog can't be a litigator. (President: Thank you, Mr. Krassic.) Every association is not intended. I'm sending a message to the boss, so he doesn't get hurt because of Mladjan Dinkic. I hope Mr. Jocic understands this and will quickly answer my question when he will arrest Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5299	Thank you. The word has Natasa Jovanovic, and then Dragan Todorovic, according to Business, then according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Slobodan Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5300	I won't be talking for long. I'm just going to give a little example. Congratulations to the ruling party MPs who are in parliament. There are few of you, but you respect the National Assembly. Unlike you, there are no representatives, i.e. no heads of the parliamentary groups, not from the people's coalition, not from the Democratic Party, not from G 17 plus. This speaks of the relationship between the ruling coalition and the work of this parliament. That's why it's best for you that the Assembly is not being transferred at all. You just want it to end as soon as possible, so the people don't hear or see anything. That's what we want to prevent, which is not good for you in the end line, and it's especially not good for the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5301	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The word is by MP Slobodan Gavrilovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5302	Because of the twisted facts, I'm obliged to mention some things. There were no direct transfers in this House from 1994 to 1998. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: It is not true. We'll see if it's true or not. At a time when a direct transfer was effectively lifted from the speaker, without the parliament's decision, when all parties of the opposition, including the SRS, left parliament, who returned first, without direct transfer -- the Serbian Radical Party. Look, then say it, please. Look at that. Do not only attribute certain important elements to the parliamentary debate in Serbia at this time. There are societies that are democratic, where there are no direct transfers, so it's not a problem. We have represented this thesis, even today, as a democratic party, because we are in such a phase of society's development, that direct transfers are desirable and important for Parliament's work. Then why attribute it to only once? (Dragan Todorovic, from place: It doesn't matter. Why doesn’t it matter? That's not right. So this is about a technical problem that is related to the play of a national important sports event, which will delay the transmission for an hour and 20 minutes. Why do you interpret this as a proposal to shut down direct television transmissions? You can say - we don't accept a delayed transmission for this hour and 20 minutes, and I consider it a legitimate position, whatever your position is, but not to automatically link someone's political drive to hide something in this House, to hide something from the public's eyes, etc. That's not right, because that's not true. I'd like to make another note about direct television transmissions. It is evident that they are used here by political parties to promote their ideas, and that is the legitimate right of each party. Hence, if at this point we are looking at the essence, and not just looking at the form, and it is important, because it is not proposed to delay the transfer of all assembly sessions, but only for how long an important national sports event lasts, and we also propose yesterday and today... (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: It is humiliation. It's not humiliation. Because you have to understand, what you're talking about, the harmony of certain plans that couldn't get in at that time right now, and that we don't have one channel that we used to have, etc. It takes time to adjust to that. Have an understanding of something that is not a decision and is not a coercion, to be said immediately, and something wants to be hidden from the public. So, don't treat the technical thing, which is armed for an hour and 20 minutes, as principle and principle, because we've never stood behind it and we won't stand. You know very well, before entering the coalition in 1996, the Serbian Radical Party returned to parliament, even before the Democratic Party, a year and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5303	Thank you, Mr. Gabrielovich. He has the word Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, then Mr Krasic, then Mr Todorovic, and Mr Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5304	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, director of RTS... I took this from the chair table, because as vice president, I should also be informed of what will be happening next in the assembly. Now to you, Mr. Gavrilovic, to refresh my memory, it is clear that you have been absent from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a long time. And how could you, when you failed in the 1997 elections, so you weren't in any of the assembly benches? The Serbian Radical Party had 82 MPs. Those from the failed SPI were 45. You have total amnesia as regards all events, Mr. Gavrilovic; since you haven't, since the early 1990s, you as Slobodan Gavrilovic, here in the National Assembly, you don't know, and you've confused all the pots. Now I'm going to go back to that and tell you how chronologically it was, and then I'm going to read what it says here. He says, some Vladan Skrkic said the delayed transmission will go, see what it says, or tonight at 2:00, can you imagine it, or tomorrow morning at 8:00. What do we look like to you, Mr. Gavrilovich? What would you do at that time, when you were an opposition and there were seven-eight of you with all Djindjic and those from the DSS, Kostunica, one Petrovic, the other Petrovic, Jocic and that handful, how many of you, seven-eight, were seven plus seven or nine plus nine, it doesn't matter, then what would you do? Mr. Gavrilovic, I will remind you that only the Serbian Radical Party has fought for it. Because when they dragged us and beat us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia precisely because of these direct transfers, some of them, as you did after, in a sophisticated version alone, you brought the same ones to the National Assembly, to Dedinje, everywhere, and to the National Bank of Serbia in 2000. You were not drawn here, but Mr. Todorovic and Mr. Nikolic. You remember there was then a decision by all the opposition parties, and in 1995, to make some so-called. the alternative, i.e. parallel parliament. We didn't want to participate in this at all because it was quite obvious that your party was at the time, because it was already working on repealing the Privatisation Act when Djindjic was your president, so Vuk Draskovic spent his entire life, then as the alleged opposition, scurred with the regime... Here, there's Mrs. Pesic, who, though, as an independent participant, didn't have much success, and then her party, but let's refresh your memory. In 1997, the Serbian Radical Party entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the largest voter support. Direct TV broadcasts from that call began over and over again on a regular basis. Then, as Mr Todorovic spoke of, the SRS, participating in the coalition's coalition with the SPS and the JUL, was a final and complete advocate for the direct transfer of the Assembly's work. Even at one point, the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, then Deputy Prime Minister of the Parliament, told citizens who called Dragan Veselinov that while he was speaking, or Joseph Kasa, I can't remember now, but there have been several times such cases, a direct reporter from that cabin appears and there is no hearing what Vesenov or Kasa are saying, we said they are not joking with it, whether we are in power or opposition there must be direct TV transmission. Rest assured, Mr. Gavrilovic, when some recent history is written or the rules of analysis by people who will seriously deal with this rather than with your five-eyed coup, that light letters will record any radical attempt to develop parliamentary democracy in this highest assembly body. You remember that during that period, representatives of your party, although you were so few, and my fellow citizen and your colleague Borisvoje Radic was in your parliamentary group, wrote over 1,000 amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. No one said a word about it at the time, and today you dare say that we are obstructing and using our rights that come from the Constitution, in the Rules of Procedure we actually abuse... Okay, you didn't say that, you say, it's promoting. Well, what else are we going to do than promote our political ideas? Our political ideas and our concern for Serbia and for the people are, in any case, honest, honest, with the best intentions, unlike you, because you dared to deceive the citizens a moment ago and that you don't think there are any of us here who remember chronologically how it all happened. Therefore, a direct transmission, and we will continue to work in a democratic spirit and atmosphere, which will show the citizens of Serbia who is who in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5305	Thank you, Natasha. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, MP Zoran Krasic, MP Dragan Todorovic, and MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5306	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Dinkic, you can return, as far as we are concerned, to where you have been, because, among other things, by your actions and conduct, you have confirmed in the most direct manner everything that we have spoken about in the afternoon debate, pointing to the irresponsibility of the ruling coalition, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and the parties that make up the ruling coalition at the moment at which one of the most important issues for the future of the country that we need to take care of. For the LDP, the ratification of the CEFTA agreement is the most significant political decision this parliament has made so far, much more significant than suffocating about Kosovo and the resolutions that failed before being put on paper. In what atmosphere does the debate run - the ruling coalition is ashamed of what it proposes. Take us into economic integration with countries with which, in the meantime, instead of political co-operation, you have begun to develop a policy of conflict and conflict. We asked what our relations today are with our neighbours, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Albania, how do we think we are developing a policy of economic co-operation at a time when we are in complete political misunderstanding with them? We've been seeking responsibility for the damage that has arisen from the sloppyness, the unhappiness, the incompetence of the government. This document entered the July 23rd Assembly, and we are discussing it today. It's been wasted for 20 years, 100 days, too, someone has to answer for it. You walked into this room at 5:15 and you're not interested. We insist on responsibilities. Serbian citizens have no right to even follow up on this debate, a debate in which we want to defend what the government is obliged to defend, which is the idea of a market economy, developed democracy, modernisation, reform. What is more important than that, why is it relativating and so humiliating both parliament and our desire to contribute to the changes in this society, what is more important than this debate? We asked which trumpeter we should bring here to show the prime minister, which athlete (who, despite all the obstacles he has succeeded), we should bring here to make the government appear and thus take his success to herself. What's supposed to happen is that he sits in these benches and goes out to the citizens and says, "Yes, CEFTA is good, economic co-operation is good." It will happen if there is political readiness for such a thing. We don't want to push and push Montenegro, we want to sell our products there, we want to trade, we want to move forward, we want to partner with Croatia, we want to agree with Kosovo and on other issues when we agree on CEFTA. Yes, a deal between Serbia and Albanians is possible, and that CEFTA confirms such a thing. Instead, it'll be delayed transmission. Who decided to send it to the college assembly? JUL informed us about it, congratulated us in 1997. Well, that's how it was done 10 years ago, today can't do it anymore. There's no delay in transmission. Either this parliament will manage this society, or Serbia will not be a democratic society. So let us know if we have the Assembly or not, but while we're here, we're going to act the way people who appreciate the support they've won in the election behave. Our 220,000 votes since January 21st make us bound to something like that. They're worth a lot more to us than the commitments you've made to maintain this failed coalition in power. It's so pathetic what we have to listen to today, this empty hall, the devastation of those who destroyed this country on a single project that's only worth what happened in 2007. There is no debate in parliament without a transfer that will allow citizens to understand that this CEFTA is a chance for them, not a threat. And those who instead offer us quizzes, fortune tellers, lotterys, political shows under the slogan "What are you doing?" may one learn that in parliamentary democracy society is run by parliament, not their haughtiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5307	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5308	Mr. Mrkonjic, that's Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Matić, I hope you understand now, don't put me and Chad Jovanovic in the same basket. You saw for yourself, so you tried to trick voters when you put me in some basket with Cedomir Jovanovic. Why did I go out on Article 104? Because usually when a congregation speaker is used to make an argument, then one who makes an argument tries to prove his allegations. Mr. Gavrilovic comes out and says - look. He had no intention of proving it. And I'm not mad about it, to tell you the truth. That's your political attitude, you can talk. But I don't understand what will happen in a delayed broadcast – a game or a session of the National Assembly. From the point of view of national interests, it is more important for the public to hear what is said in the National Assembly about the CEFTA agreement. It is that it is so modest, but what it hides, that debate should show. It's very important for the citizens, for those who are out of work, for those who are tearing up banks, in all order. The game is also important. If you continue to work after 18 hours, then in the gym, practically, they'll be football dunsters, people who don't like their team. I'm not the one. There's going to be a situation where there's no government representatives, they go to watch, and they say, "Let's go to the radicals there, maybe at two o'clock in the morning, somebody's going to watch." I'm sure Gavrilovic will watch the broadcast at two o'clock in the morning, see how it turned out, if the camera caught him, if he was pretty, if he was smart when he was coming out on the line, etc. Now we're going back to the very point. What does the public of work mean? The public of work means that at that moment whoever wants to have the opportunity to monitor what is happening in the National Assembly. When I talk about delayed transmissions, it's like The Hague to me. When you follow the trial on the internet in The Hague, it always goes half an hour of delayed transmission. Why? Because in half an hour, what happens if a US official testifies, two civil servants stand next to the one in the director's office and -- cut, insert, closed, open, private, semi-private, etc. I know that won't happen, the RTS will let go, but at two o'clock in the morning, when no one's interested. When someone's making a public transmission and someone's following it, it's got a drama of its own. It is not all the same to follow under that impression when at two o'clock in the morning, selecting "one" channels, run to the channel - Gavrilovic behind the pay phone, so the Assembly is. You're talking about technical problems. Who created these technical problems? You sold the third channel, why wasn't it a parliamentary channel? There are parliamentary channels in all countries, so the panels are transferred directly from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5309	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Gavrilović, I really don't mind him coming out with some facts from a little further past, because it's really hard to remember everything that's been going on. There have been violent events in this congregation, they've come one after another, and that's quite clear. In my presentation, there was nothing special about the Serbian Radical Party. I was talking about the facts that were related to a consistent operation of the SRS when it comes to the public transfer of the session of the Assembly. I remember back then that we, all those parties who were in opposition, performed together at press conferences, and we didn't violate that agreement, as we never violated any agreement. I have to tell you, you've made some mistakes after all. We were in opposition in 1996, and we were in a very difficult position. Just to remind you, in 1994 the president of our party was in prison, so in 1995 the vice president, deputy president, several MPs; at the night session of the Committee on Immunity Affairs, etc. In 1996 and 1997, it was difficult not to say the trench battle with the then ruling coalition, which was the Socialist Party of Serbia and one part of you, then the New Democracy, which helped form power, and then moved on to you in 2000, and then it came out, you grabbed your throat again, etc. I went out, I guess at that point, it kind of hurt, because the heads of the parliamentary groups weren't in the O.R. Still no representative of the DSS or the "national bloc". I welcome the fact that the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, has come to the hall, saying that the public of the Parliament's work still has influence. That's what we stand for. Had the people not heard that, it would probably not have been as important to come immediately after that information, as the head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group also came after this information. It is therefore important for the meetings of the Assembly to be transferred. Maybe, let's just say, in the past, we were wrong. We don't have the right to do this right now. Why explain it now with "only now, because it's a game"? It's really pointless. I told you, we made a deal, as you promised, so let's see, but in advance, not when you're squeezed, and when you need it, no. You adopt one principle, that we try to function normally, that Parliament works the way parliaments do everywhere in the world. Then we can come up with some solutions that will allow us to work easier, that we don't have these unnecessary jumps, like now. You should know, when it comes to the SRS, by agreement, if there are certain limits, you can do anything. There's nothing you can do like this. You just can't do it with us. In all these years, you should have learned. Even after October 5th, when you waited for us outside the Assembly, you couldn't do anything, when there were only 23 of us, and not now, with 82 MPs. Therefore, once you adopt a way of working that will help both you and Parliament, and I think that in the Serbian Radical Party you will find an appropriate side that will always respect the arguments, if it is necessary to bring things into line and agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5311	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5312	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several possible tools to address this problem. Seven or eight MPs, I say seven or eight, because Mr Hiber is not coming, are members of the RTS Program Committee. Mr. Gavrilovic, a session of the Committee on Culture and Media is held Monday. I suggest you extend the agenda, I'll suggest this point. Mr. Gavrilovic, your council group in Cačka has left the coalition with New Serbia, because New Serbia has abolished the direct TV transmission of the session SO Cačak, and I congratulate you on that. I expect you to implement a consistent DS policy (I hope that such a policy) will do the same to you here. So, when there are no direct transfers, you leave parliament. That's the first thing. The second thing, when the law was passed written by the famous Rade Veljanovski for big money, I was saying, take the stenogram, that the frequency of the third channel of RTS was hidden and that it is now "Avala". In the meantime, a new TV station called Enter, completely past the law, past all the rules, became the owner of the Ju info channel frequency. There are several ways out of this. I understand the RTS position, I can be fundamentally loyal to them, I just need to be more loyal to parliament and the public of Serbia. They cannot function in this way because they are mostly financed from the personal incomes of Serbian citizens, which is otherwise not tax but is an obligation under the Law on TV subscription. No one can collect so many millions of euros a month and thus treat the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They could have fought back in 2001 and 2002 for the Third Channel to remain in that position, as one of the previous debaters called it here. Otherwise, if Serbia's Radio-Television keeps us informed every day of the depesh until we can work, then it doesn't make any sense. You know who's older in Serbia. If that doesn't help, I'd like to invite my colleagues to take the initiative together to cancel the TV subscription, and then let RTS do what they need to do from commercial arrangements. Otherwise, it is impossible for every citizen of Serbia to pay 350 dinars a month, and this way they treat a job that may not be of interest to them. Maybe in "sher" doesn't match what they expect, maybe there's no ratings and they can't have economic propaganda, but they're not private television. It is too much that in this country there are two American and two German televisions with a national frequency, and that RTS, or Serbian television, cannot transfer parliament's sessions in direct transmission. We'll also request an extraordinary session of the RTS programming board and we'll announce our views there. I call on the DS to choose its member in this body because Mr. Hiber boycotts this programming board because it contains Mr. Vukic and Mr. Momir Markovic. It takes MPs there to complete, they are one-third of what is a total number of members, and we agree on that. Otherwise, RTS cannot expose the ultimatum to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5313	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5314	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good thing Mr. Gavrilovic stayed to talk after me. I went out for this phone booth personally because of him, so I could answer some questions. You certainly know that a month and a half ago, or two ago, when the Assembly was sitting, Gavrilovic here howled like a lone wolf when the MP sitting next to him declared that Srboljub Zivanovic, an SRS MP, was stealing electrical energy. However, I must tell you that the expertise has shown that the electrical system, in fact, has been stealing from me as a consumer. But Mr. Gavrilovic did not howl as a lone wolf when MPs here spoke of abuses, thefts, malfeasances of his party colleagues, former ministers, Vlahovic, Pitic, who were in company with this man who is sitting here today. So, you see, what time it was, and this time that it is today, is a time that shows that criminals are returning to the scene of the crime. I am sorry that those who are offended, those who suffer, which are actually citizens and workers of this Serbia who have lost their jobs because of the criminal privatisation done by Mr. Vlahovic... That's why I'm surprised, Mr. Gavrilovic, why you didn't howl like a lone wolf to prove to your party colleagues that they were doing such malfeasances, but obvious. But look, this record says that cameras can show, in fact, that the electrical system has been stealing Srboljub Zivanovic, the consumer of electricity all along. You see for yourself, Mr. Gavrilovic, what you missed, to introduce the public to the malfeasances and criminal actions of your party colleagues. As far as CEFTA is concerned, I'll just briefly address everyone, because I see a lot of people here talking about well-being, but there seems to be a lot of crocodiles and a little bar. A small bar is, in fact, Serbia. You now want to expand your criminal record, expand it across or outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. What falls into my eyes is that the countries participating in this agreement Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia, which once participated, and not to speak Moldova... Moldova would probably be interesting if it were, as I am usually interested in the Assembly of the former Federal Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro in telling Montenegrin lawmakers that Moldova is probably interesting to them under this agreement, and you certainly know why. But as for this transmission, Mr. Gavrilovic, don't, these aren't porn movies to be seen after 12 hours, we're not children to be banned; therefore, let the sessions of this Parliament take place within that time period to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5315	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Gavrilovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5316	To inform those who don't know, it's not football, it's volleyball. So much for the facts and the pawning and the national passions that prevail here and without enough information, not to say knowledge. The word 'obstruction', look at the stenogram, I didn't use it at all, nor would I ever use it when it comes to opposition. Obstruction is a normal tool serving the opposition in all parliaments and adapting it to those times and circumstances in which it is located. It's a natural, legitimate thing to me. That's not what I was talking about. A handful of Democrats who were then in parliament, there were 29 Democrats, and that vast majority of radicals, there were 39 of them, look out, that's the relationship... When this relationship is shown, then the citizens should hear how it was, for God's sake, about two or three and about 150. No, it was the relationship I just cited. I repeat, parliament left all opposition parliamentary parties at the time when a direct TV transmission was lifted and the Serbian Radical Party returned to parliament in 1996, and the Democratic Party in 1997. There are facts, so you see if it's true. When we refer to this famous law on local self-government and election law, which was then changed beyond the agreement reached at the round table of authorities and opposition, it was in fact supported by the future coalition partner - the SRS. That is what we here, before the 1997 elections, clearly spoke about what follows in Serbia after these elections. We have not been cleared in these elections, as is said here. Most of the parties of the democratic opposition or almost all parties of the democratic opposition then boycotted the elections for clear reasons, because an agreement by the government and the opposition reached on the round table on 29 electoral units and reduced here by violence to nine, which the Serbian Radical Party voted for. The problem is that it was previously a round table of authorities and opposition and 29 units were agreed. That's the problem. It's a matter of keeping an agreement. That's why I came out here, so no one would give a shit about what they don't have. That in Chačka which was, that's true, but that's our policy; you heard here President Dulic, he said during his inauguration, or before that, that he would not allow the abolition of direct television transmissions. The Chačka was about shutting down television transmissions, and this is about moving one session of an hour and 20 minutes. Is that the same thing? It's not an abolition and it's not a principle, it's an exception to the rules that the Democratic Party has always advocated and advocated. Finally, as far as that insinuation here was said by Miss Kragujevac, you know, in this House there was also this defamation that police representatives or some other people who weren't in uniform and beat up MPs. That's a fact. We are like Democrats, I personally have protected these MPs from this pay phone and the Assembly Hall, even though they are my political opponents; I will do so tomorrow if they are at that opportunity, because I believe that no MP... I'm sorry, I'm talking about principle. When your bosses were in prison, our MPs came to protest to support them and defend them at your meetings. There is no example, gentlemen, that Serbian radicals have defended the Democrats for the past ten years. And even when our late prime minister, when he was only the prime minister of the party, was charged with God's justice and sentenced to one year's imprisonment, conditioned to a certain time in a dispute with Mirko Marjanovic, the then Prime Minister and your future Prime Minister, did not become protected. So much for facts and principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5317	Thank you very much. I'm setting a five-minute break and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the meeting room on the first floor. We'll continue our work after five minutes. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5319	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's possible to find a solution and I think we're on our way to doing it and we're going to be less and less in a position to get to these moments. The fact is that the Assembly was brought, not by its own free will, into this situation because of the obligations that Serbia's Radio-Television had already agreed on. That is not correct, because, unlike other televisions, Serbia's Radio-Television is paid for a TV subscription and it is, above all, obliged to transfer sessions of the Serbian Parliament. In continuing to work on this agenda point, as far as the SRS is concerned, we will now give up our Rules of Procedure, we will give up any steps that would extend this agenda point. We'll get her right to the end. I hope it's on the other side. But, as agreed, we will ask RTS never to bring us into this situation again, because we will then apply those resources at our disposal and bring them to the obligation they have as a public service to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-09-12-0.u5320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've come to a situation... I thank Mr. Todorovic, he correctly explained what we all need to know. So the problem is in this country that RTS once had three channels and could cover the work of the Assembly even when it had previously agreed obligations. Now there's only two channels. The problem is that he cannot get the third channel, the problem is that he is obliged to transfer to the Assembly. I'm sorry some MPs tried to manipulate the fact that we came into this situation. This is not caused by anything, especially by my activity or by the activity of the vice president or by the leadership of this congregation. We have to face this problem together. What I have to inform you, yesterday we tried to at least enable a delayed transmission in normal time, not at 2 a.m. and not at 8 a.m., but during the evening, when the previously agreed commitments of RTS were completed. We couldn't do that, and for that reason, the Assembly was interrupted yesterday. Today we had a promise that the delayed transmission would be at 9:00 p.m., and I thought it was correct that the debate that began to take a different course at 16.50 p.m., where 70 minutes of this debate was spent on an objection to the Rules of Procedure, about the matter of direct transmission, and we could use that time to discuss the CEFTA agreement and it would only be about 10 or 15 minutes that would be broadcast at 9 p.m., as we had a promise... I think that's correct. If we are in such a situation in another period, we will not interrupt work because RTS has arranged a match in three hours, because we are the National Assembly and we cannot measure ourselves and model our work according to the transfers of the RTS Assembly, but we will also work together, and it is not just a question of the president, it is not just the people who are leading this assembly, it is a question of all the parliamentary groups and political parties in this country. I'm sure we all have the consent that transfers must exist. The assembly must have direct TV transmissions, which is the achievement for which we all fought together. Of course, there are now different memories, whether it was this year or that year, but we fought for it together, and so it has to be in the future. We will discuss technical details in the future, but I ask you never to question the sincere intention, and mine, and the parties I represent and the people who lead this assembly, that direct TV broadcasts in the future be. We will stop working now, we will continue tomorrow, tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. the word will be given to MP Radovan Milovankic. I now inform you that we will insist in some future, until there is a system solution for the work of this Parliament, that with delayed transfers this assembly must work in the terms that we agree on. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the meetings of the 122 Members of the People are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Milos Jevtic, Dragoljub Micunović, Laslo Varga, Nenad Canak, Esad Djudjevic, Pastor Balint and Elvira Kovac. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amending and Access Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe – CEFTA 2006 (addition) The word has a National MP Radovan Milovankić, and let Slobodan Maraš be prepared. (Zarko Obradovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You will be given a word by the Rules of Procedure after the end. The word has a folk MP, Radovan Milovankic.
