ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12951	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. The president of the National Assembly yesterday, when he concluded the session, told the MPs that they should have understanding that it is difficult to organise such a hard and intense work of the National Assembly. We understand it, of course, and we are aware of the reasons why this is all going on. On the one hand, guilt lies on the government, which is always late to deliver various bill proposals to the National Assembly, and the other part of the guilt is on the leadership of the National Assembly, which has simply not been able until now to vote for the government to realize that the National Assembly has a government, not the Government of the National Assembly. I answered because I brought a gift to the president of the National Assembly. It is an agenda (showing paper) of the work of a parliament in the environment. However, this is written in Hungarian, and since the President of the Assembly is weak in this language, I only want to tell him what this table contains. On the one hand, there are various draft laws on the agenda in vertical lines. There are 90 for the fall session. There are session dates up here. These cubes marked with different colors are not random. Namely, some cubes mark the days for principle debate, some others – for discussion in particular, then the days for voting on amendments, then the days for voting in general, etc. I think the work of this people's congregation will be much more effective if it goes in such a direction. I would like to present this now, that is, to present to the president of the National Assembly, with good intentions, to look and read and try to organize the work of the National Assembly in this way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12952	Thank you, Mr. Varga. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Defence (resumption in particular) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 9. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12953	Let me just pick up where Mr. Dulic left off. I think you're all going to vote for this amendment, and here's why. Thanks to this excessive need by the DS to pass regulations that somehow relate to the President of the Republic, two Colonels of the Ministry of Defence, who have been working on legal affairs for years, had this exclusive opportunity this year to use their vacation for two months, because these laws were written by a graduate lawyer from a farming cooperative, who, meanwhile, had been employed at the Ministry of Defence. Of course, when an agricultural cooperative lawyer writes regulations about the military and about the defense, then we have a bad bill and then we have to write amendments. Article 9 The bill has been regulated as to what falls within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. It was done in a mixed way. First, something was prescribed from the Constitution, and then something was added, as if it were following the basics of what was written in the Constitution. I believe that under this Article 9, there must have been more debate, within the competence of the National Assembly, of what is written in the Constitution and of what is covered by Article 4. It's a bill of law. I think the National Assembly should be competent to consider and decide on a strategic review, for example, defence. Why? For one simple reason, if the Assembly did so, then the DS would be saved. Yes, it is. It's all about DS. A while ago, Mr. Sutanovac and Dusan Petrovic nearly killed themselves at Boris Tadic's office. It is not excluded, they may continue the conflict, as two interesting lobbies have emerged within the DS for the purchase of military equipment. That's why Mr. Sutanovac was in France yesterday. He was in France because he made an illegal decision, of course, I have to keep my mouth shut, Mr. Sutanovac, because you've protected this in some way, so now whoever's talking this is doing a crime if he talks to the details. Some telecommunications equipment is being purchased, some top-secret tender is at stake. You have an assistant, someone Ilija Filipovic, and imagine, he is from the SDPR, where Radulovic is from. Mr. Sutanovac, you have to sign one decision on the choice of a strategic partner for the procurement of telecommunications equipment. Now, if the public knew what this was about, it was decided that the first one would have to be second. Why did he become the first? He became the first because Filipovic led the commission in Morovic for two days, feasted, taught them how to stab in the tender, but still couldn't make a mathematical mistake to hide in any way, it came out. Then this same Mr. Filipovic made one decision that he was not in charge of. In that decision, 900 million dinars are to be spent this year, but three billion commitments are being made for next year. Two are a big, interesting lobby, one lobby representing a French producer, you know it's a SDPR, and the other lobby representing an Israeli producer, and all of this needs to be annulled and all the actors arrested. There are some behind the SDPR, and behind that other company again, some of the DS, I think the wife of one whose name is called some streets. Poor Tadic doesn't know how to solve it, that problem. That's how our Department of Defense works. We have historian Bojan Dimitrijevic, he's the chief strategist for strategic plans, the generals stand before him, that's the counsellor of the defence minister who didn't serve the army, I guess he later served. They came up with what the National Assembly should do in the defense system, which is by the Constitution, and how it should be worked out is not so important. The assembly doesn't need to know what's going on. I hope, Mr. Sutanovac, that yesterday you successfully defended the interests of the SDPR, given that it was a French telecommunications company. That's right, people, when DS is in power. It's just the logical continuation of my exposure from before who knows how many years ago, that it's a snap system, pull what you get, and in what form, it doesn't matter at all. Let's go back to article 9 which speaks of what the National Assembly should do in the single defense system. Of course, there is something that is prescribed by the Constitution, but you can't see how the congregation does it. You can't see, at all, what is the legal-political position of the National Assembly in the defence system, which is being notified by the Assembly to the Ministry of Defence and by all entities involved in the defence. Who defines that defense? The National Assembly doesn't need details. For these things there are qualified persons, people who have finished military schools. By the way, Mr. Sutanovac retired from war school, we don't need that anymore. Colonels who have trained, prepared future elders are no longer required, now those who have completed their course of survival, those who eat worms, snakes. He doesn't have our war school, he's got some foreign war school, he's got some Vidosav Kovacevic there, he's got a "britta saber" by the Democratic Party. You can't break up the Army that much, I'm telling you, you can't take that one helicopter you've got. You see, the state sets aside funds for the military and for the defence, but when it comes to the position of the military budget, then the procurement starts, then the installation starts, then Sutanovac and Petrovic argue over which company will get the job, how to get the job done, how to solve the DS's problem: three state secretaries, three cabinet heads, three secretaries, vehicles, "Cobras" are organised as a Cypriot protection service for the character and the work of the beloved president. And who's guarding the border? They say, now, the police, they turn over the Army, is no longer her jurisdiction. Where are our units, as our units are equipped, are they capable of fulfilling their constitutional obligation? Who commands these units, how are they deployed, how are they equipped? That's not what the Department of Defense is interested in. So the farmer from the agricultural cooperative wrote a law on defence, which should only satisfy the minimum part of the need at this time, that there is allegedly a law on defence and a law on the military, in accordance with the new constitution, which is, after all, a condition to call elections for the President of the Republic, and that is what Dulic will do, he will have to do, poor man, December 14th, probably. This is how we need to discuss serious issues with non-serious authority, with non-serious people, people who have taken positions to achieve only their own interests. There's no country anywhere. There is no state in these billes, there is no Serbia. I'm counting, after this presentation and this procurement, that they're killing each other, because it's big money, strategic partners are two interesting lobbys, all of it from the DS. Important officials, both vice presidents, came up with living money, a promisingly good job, the interests of Jugochemia and the interests of the SDPR, the interests of those behind it. We'll see, that should be put in the first place, and I'm counting on Mr. Sutanovac to order, say, that his Filipovic be arrested. How he can sting, and he has been warned, the minister and assistant minister have been warned it's a crime, but they're smiling. You can choose the finger you'll show them, they'll always smile. The first time, uh, the second time, uh, not to go any further, every finger will smile. The journalists will say it nicely – the non-shalant minister has gone over it all, but Zoran Krasic has the documentation. That's the problem. I skip the window, I get the paperwork, whether the window's on the seventh floor or 12, but there's the paperwork. We'll start with questions later, so Mr. Secretary can answer. He can say -- with disgust, I refuse all of it, it's all a lie, it's all not true, but there's independent investigative journalism, there are other channels, to ensure that the public sees the DS rule in continuity when it's being held by the Ministry of Defense. Of course, you MPs don't know that, you're not in those interest groups. I expect you, Mr. Dulic, to take action, too, because I am simply surprised that in this bill of defense they did not put you in. You would have to make a mini council for peace operations within the DS, that, when they reach the president of the DS, there is always an independent observer, who should say whether Sutanovac is right or right, Dusan Petrovic. They found a way to make a deal, so they said one Lot goes one, the other Lot goes to the other, that both sides, both of the stakeholders in DS, in DS leadership, will be satisfied. So, you're going to get a little bit of it, you're going to get a little bit of it. It's known there the VF, etc., that I'm not harassing you with these things, it doesn't matter to the National Assembly, these details don't matter, but it's important that there's a conflict. Because of that conflict, we don't have any defenses, or the military, because the D.A.D.D.D. is holding the DS, they're treating it like a place where it can be pulled off, because it comes from a tow of the system. That's all - left hand, right pocket. You see, the secretary of fraud, so they let him sign the decision and draw his attention, Minister, it's an illegal decision. He says -- how illegal, it's in line with the DS program. There is no law when it comes to DS or his Filipovic. They say to him, "You are not in charge of making that decision, and he smiles and says, "You will see." Lucky for us that there's another member, if you need service, you can go to early retirement, now use mass that member, make everyone retire, and '62. The year retires because such a member does not exist in the new military law. It was in the draft, but that member was thrown out because they said we'd slaughter everything before the Army law was passed. Colonels, majors, '62. Every year, they retire, there's no need for service.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12954	Thank you. Is anyone else answering about the amendment? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the People's MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Article 226. I have a question for you, National Assembly President, please answer me. The theme is the privatisation of electronic media. Some new facts have come up, so that's why I'm reporting. Earlier in Dnevnik, I read on Tanjug's website that yesterday Minister Milan Markovic was in Novi Sad, that he was there having a conversation with the President of the Executive Council of Vojvodina Bojan Pajtic and Milorad Đuric, the circuit secretary for information – about the further fate of electronic media in minority languages. They also held a joint press conference where Milan Markovic "supported the Executive Council's initiative to exempt electronic media from mandatory privatisation, more specifically, those electronic media that broadcast the programme and in the languages of national minorities", since, according to Milan Markovic, "there are insufficient guarantees for the survival of minority programmes after privatisation". It seems that all this announcement in the past months of SVM MPs has come into fruition, it seems that the Democratic Party has seen that a change in the Law on Broadcasting should be made, but unfortunately, the DS wants to privatise the idea of SVM. The DS wants to show that it is the very one who advocates the exclusion of electronic media, minority media, from privatisation. I have to say right away we don't mind. It is important for us to adopt this solution, to exclude minority media from the privatisation process. The truth is, it's not true that it's the DS's attitude. It is true that it is not true that it occurred to DS, Pajtic, Milan Markovic and Milorad Djuric, but to SVM, but we are not interested. We are interested in solving this problem, and the question for Mr. President of the National Assembly is - does this mean that DS has changed its position and that the next session of the National Assembly will find a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting of SVM MPs, which is foreseen to exempt the media from privatisation in minority languages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12956	I can answer you right now, Mr. Pastor. This means that we are all aware of the problem that exists, as far as privatizing minority media is concerned, and that we are trying to find a system solution. All parliamentary groups will be involved in finding that solution, because I think everyone has an interest in the problem of informing minority peoples in their languages in such a way. Here you go, Mr. Baralic. I suggest, if anyone else wants to talk to the Rules of Procedure, let's get back to it, and let's keep working on the amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12957	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Party of Serbia did not think of proposing amendments and amendments to the law on the exemption of certain media, primarily electronic, from privatisation. Our programme also includes a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Broadcasting, to suspend the privatisation of all electronic media in Serbia. I'll sue some of them for copyright. So, if DS has such an idea, the free paints. A respected colleague here talked about the exemption from the privatisation of electronic media for the needs of minority communities, and we support it, but we support and suspend the privatisation of all electronic media in Serbia, because electronic media owners in Serbia will become a few tycoons in a few months. There are two acts in the procedure in the National Assembly, one from the SVM Parliamentary Club, that is legitimate, and there is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Broadcasting, which has been submitted by the SPS, in accordance with its political programme, to exclude all electronic media from privatisation, because the privatisation of the media ensures that they write a lot of things. Not to answer again, Mr. President, since you're a doctor and president of the National Assembly, did you approve two days ago of a medical team that, with a TV camera present, you're experimenting in vivo on the MPs? What would happen if that medical team wanted to analyze the urine to the MPs? Did you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, approve? Do you know that in every country home of health, in every infirmary, a patient is guaranteed to be in front of a doctor without a medical technician present, and that in front of your office, 100 metres from you, ten cameras, a medical examination of the MPs is being performed? Do you know that a lady who presents herself as a primarius said that she would use a centimetre for this purpose in the future? Will you, Mr. President Dulic, allow the MPs to have normal health care in the National Assembly building, so that our dispensary is no longer ordered by those who are excess in the MUP's dispensary on Durmitor Street? I demand that there be a permanent medical service here, that no one practice here, to provide the MP with a cover when a medical examination is carried out, as provided for by every patient in Serbia. Do you know that those who did this experiment advertised a medical device for the analysis of sugar and said it cost 200 euros? Did you approve? If you're not, what are you going to do to stop this circus here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12958	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Stefan Zankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a defense law. Article 10. The bill regulates the situation in which the State is located when the National Assembly is unable to meet, and it concerns decisions on the declaration of war and certain measures which are deviating from the Constitution of guaranteed human and minority rights, etc., from reading. The SRS believes that there is no way to regulate what is constitutional matter, nor to prescribe the rights and obligations of the National Assembly. For that reason, we propose to be a member of the 10. The bill is deleted. What goes in favor of this claim is also an explanation given under Article 10. The bill, where it is said: "It is proposed that the powers of the decision-making authority to declare war or emergency and to lay down rules on the derogation from human and minority rights in an emergency and war state, when the National Assembly is unable to meet, shall be governed as a constitution", I shall not read any further. So, the law suggests that something be arranged as in the Constitution. It is an obligation, and absolutely, there is no need for such a single member, regardless of what he says below, to be in one place a comprehensive examination of the functions and competence of the authorities in the defence of the country. It is impossible to write something like this in an explanation that the law suggests that something should be arranged as in the Constitution, that is understood. Something's been prescribed, and for what is added, we don't think it's done in the best way, this work, let me say, a certain member of the Constitution, but we believe that this is also the result of the haste of the proposing, specifically, part of the government, the Democratic Party, because of the presidential election. Then he's wrong, then something doubles. We believe that the proposed solution is better and that it goes in the direction of correcting the text of the law. In order to avoid any chaos in the legal code, we suggest that this amendment be accepted. The consequences of these laws are extremely poor both in defence and in Serbia's Army, and the consequences of what you of the DS, led by Boris Tadic, who began breaking up Serbia's Army, are now trying to forget, in some ways, that he was once a defence minister, when he was not very important in the DS, they are such that my colleagues, who will talk about the Army's draft law, will be more specific. Once again, I suggest that this amendment of the SRS be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12960	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12961	It is not good when a constitutional norm is prescribed in the law, but it is even worse when it is shortened or misinterpreted. Article 10. The bill is designed to cover everything already contained in Article. 200th and 201th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is the situation where war or emergency is declared, and the National Assembly is unable to ambush. But the central problem with this member and this law is do we really need laws when DS is in power? What can make them bound? Can any regulation be made by the Democratic Party? Let's start by assuming it's a law that fits the DS and that happens to be adopted in the National Assembly. And that law can't be applied either, because every member of that law has a kind of negativity in the unwritten text of the law, but somewhere in some file, someone's head is embellished. Here, we hear, we have five MiGs of 29, four going on a remont, one going on the iron, but it also gave up on the remont. Why? Because they say there's no money. How can there be money when DS is in power? But there's another, much more important problem. Probably, in the historic Serb armed forces, there are only two ministers with a name and a last name who are major opponents of the air force. One was Nikola Ljubic. You couldn't convince him of the need to modernise aviation while he was Chief of Staff, etc., the SFRY. The other one's a Shutanovac. He says we don't need an air force. I expected everyone to send him a paper plane today to complete their air force, so the kids could play. He says we don't need an air force, we don't need an air force, we have NATO. Why are we remounting? You heard him a few days ago, he says -- if he was lucky, we'd have two helicopters, not just one, which puts out the fire, but the MiGs don't need it. He's against aviation. Now, is the National Assembly against Aviation under the Armed Forces of the Serbian Army? Did he ask any of the National Assembly that we should have all the genders and visions? They haven't even asked us about this telecommunication equipment that's being supplied, and their eyes are going to take it out. Now, from the point of view of the law, I have here documentation warning the minister and assistant minister that something that's done is not in accordance with the law, but what's worth it? They're moving on. Now you're going to retire the main procurement man, this Markovic, and for two years you're going to successfully run the business, you're going to have no affair. It doesn't fit the DS project, it doesn't fit the drp system and it has to disappear. Why until New Year's Eve? Because there's one member that says - you need a service - you're going out. But, well, the public needs to know a lot of details, and I would like it to be more actively involved in this debate and the minister, to come out and say - everything Krasic lied. That would be the best option, because then it would provoke the press, and then they'd write about who's lying and who's stealing. However, I have experience with this government. I also asked Minister Jocic if he was writing, whether he was buying a newspaper, whether he had the opportunity to read that some proceedings were being conducted against Mladjan Dinkic, etc., and he was asking me whether he was buying a newspaper, answered that a criminal report was filed against Mladjan Dinkic in 2002, but that it was also hitched. How? Crow crows don't take their eyes out. So the government has an authentic knowledge of criminal behavior and the police filed a criminal report because he didn't report the perpetrator. You G17 guys, look at the answer, don't get in my face, I didn't make anything up, it says everything here. That's what Jocic wrote. On my question – whether he buys a newspaper, whether he reads the newspaper, "Does Mr. Jocic get daily newspapers that go out in Serbia every morning, did he finish elementary school, does he know how to read Cyrillic and Latin, did he ever get a chance to read a stenogram from the National Assembly's session", his answer was – in 2002, the ministry filed criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic. So Mladjan Dinkic comes to him as part of his reply to literacy, and part of the response to the purchase of newspapers, and part of the answer to whether there is any knowledge of the committing of crimes. That's the government of Vojislav Kostunica, maximum alert. For the pay phone, anything you have to say at the pay phone, not in the hallways, transparently. Ever since democracy came, everything's been clean. Here you go, me, all cleaned up. About the DS crime, I'll be talking for 30 days if I have to. Mr. Sutanovac, did the Assistant Minister receive more written warnings from members of the tender commission regarding the procurement of telecommunications equipment? Did he order these contracts, even though they weren't provided and approved funds for the purchase? Up to 900 million -- yes, but three billion -- no. No one can make a commitment this year for the next five years. That's a very important question. You see how long-term they planned how to pull, so not just this year. Furthermore, did this Filipovic of yours take these to the Morović Military Institute and deal with them on how to dagger, so, even, teach mathematics how to dagger? I'm interested, do you know that people are stuck on VMA because of this, two have had a nervous breakdown. They had a nervous breakdown. One of them stayed on VMA. Now you explain to me how laws and VMA go each other. The Commission needs to make a point, see what the offers are, etc. Because of the pressure from the DS, applying the law, and the Democratic Party is demanding that they do not apply the law, knowing how Davinic, as these past, has been harassed by people, ended up at VMA. Did you visit them at the hospital, did you take the presents, or did you retire this Markovic? You citizens, when you vote for the DS, see what responsibility you bear. None of you who voted for the DS voted for this, and you see how they apply the law. They say these followers, we don't want the law to stick to a drunk float. The interest of DS, some individuals in the DS, is what entrenched their daily stay at any function, and there's the end of the story. One was in the ambulance at 23 hours. So, what do you do, do you draw their blood at night? One was at 4:00, the other at 23 had to go to an ambulance. Of course, you immediately replaced this Markovic, and now you're going to retire with December 31st, probably because he didn't join the DS. I saw Kovacevic join, he could be head of the Military Academy. There's this cheap guy, you brought him back from the dead, etc. I've got to skip over there a couple more times, find it in the paperwork. There are a lot of questions here for future power. Mr. Todorovic, I'm keeping this file, I hope you'll have a chance to do something about this paperwork in a few months. I have apartments here, on the streets, which the general deserves to get a big apartment just to get the job done, and then how retired generals are deployed by strategic enterprises, say, in Panchev, and then the DSS argues over whose general, who runs Petrochemy, so we have this contract on a consortium to build military apartments on Vrakar. Mr. Sutanovac, I'm sure you know that, we have everything, and additions and annexes, we have a lot of documentation, there's going to be an opportunity for that documentation to be made known. Now you can see why I stood up for Zoran Stojkovic to order me to be the warden of the prison, the KP at home, where the Democrats would support the prison sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12962	Mr. Krasic, your time is up. Let me ask you a question, don't you think you're a little out of line? We're talking about Mr. Zankov's amendment and we're letting you say, and you're developing your thesis, all right, but come on, please don't insult. This, in general, is not a direct insult to someone, but if I went out and said something like that to another party, you would certainly consider it offensive. I ask you to adjust this speech a little bit on amendments to the tolerance and correct relationship between political parties which, however, should exist here in Parliament. Thank you. Here you go. You've got 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12963	I'll finish it in 10 seconds. Take a breath, Mr. Dulic, don't worry about anything, breathe deeply, be immaculately safe when I'm behind the pay phone. Where does it say that you're the standard that estimates what my speech is? Where are you authorized to do the lecturing and the editorial of my speech? What member of our Rules of Procedure? I don't think there's a member like that. Why did you twist that story that you're a value criterion? Where did you get that right? First of all, you're a young man, you're very inexperienced in politics, you're from another profession. I appreciate it all and respect it. I also accept that you are the president of the National Assembly, I have a proper relationship with you. Why would you be authorized to think about my style? If my style of exposure is bad, then my party will punish voters in the next election, but you can't interfere with my basic thesis, that a large amount of evil in this country comes from DS. With what right do you influence my values, who authorized you to do so?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12964	I agree with you. We have different tastes, and what to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12965	If we have different tastes, you're looking for those who share that taste with you. If you're making me eat sweet, I'll tell you -- thank you, drown in it, I love something else, but it's not the subject of the Constitution, nor the law. There is no better way to explain the DS's relationship to the phenomenon of constitutionality and legality than to use the classic method of a concrete example. The minister will come out, he will say again as last time - Mr. Krasic is just insulting. Tell me, what's the insult here? An insult is what was written, signed by Mr. Sutanovac. If that's an insult, then know, you're taking a little ash, but I'm not taking part in it. The National Assembly is where everything needs to be discussed. It's not B92, the hall of the National Assembly, the street, but the very National Assembly, to face the argument. Argumentation is also when Mr. Sutanovac comes and says - Krasic lies. But few of them told me that in my rich political career. Everyone who told me that is no longer involved in politics. It's just that whoever hits me goes into the political past. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12966	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Before I give my word to MP Aleksandr Martinovic, a National MP named Nada Kolundži, head of the DS Parliament Club, reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12967	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I don't want to talk about the style of exposure, anyone's style, I'm calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. Here, completely unequivocally speaking, are not offensive expressions, but insults the entire MP club, the entire DS, and I can say, in one context, even to all those people who voted and supported DS. I think it's something inadmissible, whatever you call what I wouldn't comment on as style. So, please, there's no problem with bringing up the facts, but the fact that you're waving a folder from which you draw the conclusion that a whole party is something, as you call it all, I don't think it's correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12968	Here you go, the word is Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, I assume that before you entered the O.R., you had a chance to look at the paper. I assume you get at least one six-seven daily newspaper. Bring one whose front page is not bound to DS. As an ordinary citizen, if I hadn't been politically scarred, if I had no intention of using it in any way or misusing it for political purposes, I would have wondered before today's headlines, as a man, firstly, is this possible, is this, if it were true, published without the state responding? If it's not true, then there's something wrong with you. I was saying that yesterday, all this information comes from your coalition partner, or, to the greatest extent, from one ministry. That's what it says about your morale. Why do you agree to that? If that is not true, how can you be in the coalition and now accuse the SRS and the SRS MPs because they present the facts? Wait, please, if the facts for you aren't what Mr Krasic was saying, then I don't know what they are. I'd like you to understand, in a way, that we're just doing what our job is. We bring out things that we think are against the law, that harm our country and that we are obliged to inform both the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia. I know they don't suit you, as neither of us would, as no other party would answer such a fact, but you have to make peace with it. First and foremost, I know that you will do it, will do it, or is your intention, when the elections are over, to do what you have to do, because with that burden you simply cannot survive in politics, and that is Zoran Djindjic and all those who were with him, whom you, to the greatest extent, have removed, but the tails are still left. See the title of one newspaper, front page – "All Djindjic's ministers must go to prison." Don't, please, and you're accusing us! You have legitimate and legal ways to, in some ways, prevent it if it's not true. If that's true, I'm not saying it's you, it's these people sitting in benches, but you're the Democratic Party, and you have some things to clear up. That's the problem you faced. We, as political opponents, can't say it's not abuse, we simply use it. We know he's not answering, but you need to get back together with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12970	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Wait a minute, please, I'm sorry, Mr. Radovanovic, but we've moved on to Article 11. Here, you'll get after the word, it's no problem at all, just a little bit. Mr. Krasic, you'll get the word. Since Mr. Martinovic is headed for the pay phone, then you will. However, the word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. I hope after that we can continue with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12971	Mr. Dulic, you saw me answer the line. This is a classic example of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12972	I thought you'd come forward about the amendment, so I wanted to give priority to the motion of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12973	Mr. Martinovic let me go now because he loses every purpose of the replica after 15 minutes. Mrs. Hope, what's this about? When I say from this pay phone that I think a strategic defence plan should be considered and adopted in the National Assembly, that's my point of view. When I say that Bojan Dimitrijevic was once an adviser to the Secretary of Defense and that he didn't serve the army, that's a fact. Later he served the army, and that's a fact, and now he's in charge there for these strategies, for the staff, and that's a fact. The fact is no offense. When I present the document and say, it was signed by Ilija Filipovic, a graduate engineer, assistant for material resources, so when I present what Mr. Sutanovac signed, so when I put out my hand written questions about these circumstances, this is my position, and these are the facts. And when, in the end, I finish my presentation, and I say "drp" system, it's my political position on you. And when I tell citizens, like this, with my hand, how you vote, I warn them in time, and that's my political position. No offense here, Mrs. Hope. Your threshold for insult, as well as the threshold for all politicians active in politics, is much higher than for ordinary citizens, because if that were not the case, we would never know the truth here, nor our citizens. After all, our citizens only through the National Assembly can learn the truth about what is happening in the country. You heard, just before one MP said, if it continues like this, all the media will be owned by four people in Serbia, two or three, it doesn't matter. That is why the National Assembly is important. There are mistakes and good things here, and downfalls and uplifts, but there is only one judge for all that is done here -- these are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are sovereign, especially when they vote. I warn them that when they particularly want to be sovereign, I have the right, not to vote for DS, to vote for the SRS, and that's your message. What would you be allowed to do and I'm banned? If I say so, it's an insult, and if you say so, it's democratic, transparent, modern, in accordance with human rights and so on. Who authorized you to have that cantar? Each of us has some standard, but don't, please, give me moral lessons. I started to look like one who talks too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12974	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and let the MP Radovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few sentences about the amendment, I must note that the President of the National Assembly has taken more rights than the Rules of Procedure allow. I must remind you, Mr. Dulic, that the Vatican, about 1960, abolished the so-called list of banned books. You started making warnings a few days ago because you didn't like the titles of books. Now you don't like the speeches of certain MPs, you don't like the style, you judge what to say about the congregation speaker and what not to say. I don't think that's your job, Mr. Dulic. So, you're holding meetings of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As long as you're applying disciplinary measures, I think you should apply these measures to DS MPs, who don't usually go out for a pay phone, but get out of the seat. Also, Mr. Dulic, you were able to draw attention yesterday to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the humiliation of the National Assembly is, and you're the first to point out, when the Government determines first, one minister to explain the law, and next to it appoints some trustees, who have no right to participate in the discussion, except that they sit here and listen, and some don't even sit down, and then, afterwards, appoints the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, who has absolutely nothing to do with the defence law, nor the military law. Then today, the third day, the defence minister appears, although that's not the best solution either. If the government had asked us in the SRS who is best at explaining these two laws, I think our answer would be that it is Minister of Culture Vojislav Brajovic. Of all the ministers in the Serbian government, he is somehow best understood in arms and military; he has killed more Germans in "Optioned", in TV shows than the Sutanovac Minister's officers have seen in general. So, it would be best if these two laws were explained to us by Culture Minister Vojislav Brajovic. As for the amendments I submitted to Article 11, it is obvious that whoever wrote the Bill of Defence does not understand what the defence of the country is and what the Army of Serbia is. It is true that the Serbian Army is an extremely important segment in the defence of the Republic of Serbia, but it is not alone. If you just flier the proposal for a law on defence, you will see that there are a whole series of provisions that do not belong in the Bill of Defence, but in the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army, that is, in some other laws. Here's the thing. Someone here seems to have mixed the matter of these two laws, and in the most drastic way can be seen from the formulation of Article 11. Proposal for a defense law. In position 1, the president of the Republic, in accordance with the law, is in command of Serbia's Army. So, a sentence that absolutely does not belong in the defense law, but in the military law. In the position of Article 11, point 3, it is said this way -- the president of the Republic in the area of defence particularly adopts the Serbian Army doctrine, on the basis of a proposal from the defence minister. It's the matter of the Army law again. Then, point 5 - determines the basics of the Serbian Army's war organisation, based on a proposal from the defence minister. It's the matter of the Army law again. Point 6 – adopts the Serbian Army mobilization plan. It's the matter of the Army law again. Point 8 - adopts the Army of Serbia's plan of use and orders its use. It's the matter that doesn't belong in the defense law. It's the military law. Point 9 - decides, in accordance with the law, to refer members of the Serbian Army to multinational operations, based on a decision by the National Assembly. Pure matter of the Army law. What difference does it make, Mr. Minister, is it not illogical for you to put into the law that the Serbian Army will be used in multinational operations? Do you think the Serbian Army, if, God forbid, is sent to Iraq or Afghanistan, defends the Republic of Serbia? This is the law on defence, I guess, of the law on the defence of the Republic of Serbia, not the law on the defence of George Bush, when he visits occupiers in Iraq or Afghanistan. I really don't understand how you could put these provisions in the defense bill. Point 10 of Article 11 – provides guidelines for building the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army. Pure matter of the Army law. Point 11 – puts and resolves the head of the Serbian Army's General Staff, with the defence minister's opinion. Pure matter of the Serbian Army law. Point 12 – lays down rules concerning the use of the Serbian Army, as well as other rules governing the internal order and rules of service in the Serbian Army. It's the matter of Serbia's army law again. They don't belong in the defense law. Now let's see what the government says, why not accept the amendment. The government's reasonings are still lame, as are the previous laws we've dealt with. Mostly, in a few sentences and, mostly, they have nothing to do with the amendment submitted. They're given such a sterile, bilenic, bureaucratic way to write something. So, I suggested that all these points be deleted from Article 11, because they do not belong in the law of defence, but in the law of the Serbian Army. These are two completely different laws, we run them, about amendments, about two separate discussions, and it would be logical for all these standards to be contained in the proposal for a Law on the Army. Why doesn't the Government accept the amendment I submitted to Article 11? ''Amendment is not accepted because Article 11. In a comprehensive manner, the draft law regulates the position and elaborates the responsibilities of the President of the Republic in the area of defence, in accordance with Article 112(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. '"You, Mr. Minister, do not seem to distinguish between two things, defence and the army of Serbia. It is true, I repeat once again, that the Serbian Army is an important segment of defence, but it is not the only segment of defence, especially in the Defence Law proposal, where norms should stand for which it is clear to laymen that they do not belong in the Law on Defence, but in the Law on the Army. I gave you an example that shows in the most drastic way how you actually mixed the matter of these two laws. In Article 11(2), point 9, I will repeat once again, the president of the Republic is said to decide to refer members of the Serbian Army to multinational operations, based on a decision by the National Assembly. This norm, Mr. Minister, has nothing to do with the defence of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that the army of Serbia, possibly, don't God, if you vote as the ruling majority, is going to be sent to Iraq, Afghanistan or to some other world wartime, where the crisis was caused by your political mentors, has nothing to do with the defence of the Republic of Serbia. The government has written an explanation that, essentially, has nothing to do with the amendment. The essence of the amendments is not touched at all, and I call on you, Mr. Minister, while you are here in the O.R., because I don't believe you'll be here all the time, to adopt this amendment, because it is truly well-intentioned and it is aimed at correcting the bill on defence, which is disastrously bad, or that norms that do not belong in the proposal for a law on defence are being transferred where they belong, which is the law on the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12976	The People's MP Radovan Radovanovic, on the amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12977	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, I don't think I'm going to disturb the order that comes from our rules of procedure if I tell you that the president just now, I guess, at speed, has overlooked that I have answered. I am not talking about this amendment by Mr. Martinovic to Article 11, but about Mr. Krasic's amendment to Article 10. I don't think that's gonna bother you, because, simply, the president didn't ask if there was anything else to say, but he moved on to the 11th. I would like first to convey to you the views of the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina, which believes that if the primary goal of defence is found to be our defence, our defence, our defense of the Republic of Serbia, deterring the attack on our country, it is one of the defining facts that this law is acceptable to us. I'd like to talk to you about this article 10. Unlike Mr Krasic, I believe that it is necessary to regulate, in case, God forbid, there is a declaration of war, in which way certain acts will be brought unless the National Assembly can be ambushed. I have a question about this item 4. Why did we have to law that they would deviate from human and minority rights? In my opinion, this "majority" is both obnoxious and there is no reason to write in this law, and especially because I don't think there is any need to give government authority to lay down regulations that deviate from minority rights. The Republic of Serbia is obliged to respect international law and the highest standards of human rights when it comes to deviating human rights during the war or emergency. The Ministry says that's what the Constitution says. I do, but then I don't think there was any reason for him to stand up in the law, it's a ruse. Speaking of minority rights, I hope our youngest don't have the stomach to watch the transfer of these congregations, but through parents, I would have told my children today that they would get everything they wanted and that their parents and we would give them a far better life than they are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12978	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12979	Dear fellow MPs, I think that my colleague Martinovic, perhaps not with the same intention that made me go out for this pay phone, has launched a good amendment in Article 11. In fact, he suggests that some of the points of Article 11, simply, are deleted, among other things, when it comes to the authority of the President of the Republic, which, by the way, are not small when it comes to defence and the Army. That is what Article 11 is said in point 9 – it decides, in accordance with the law, to refer members of the Serbian Army to multinational operations, based on a decision by the National Assembly. I don't know how, but these are my eyes, since we haven't debated as a state or as a nation or as MPs or as a government, the question of sending our soldiers anywhere, unless our country is threatened, which we would have to do under the Constitution. In Article 5, it even lists how the defence of the country is achieved, so in point 4) is said to participate in multinational operations. As far as I know, participation in multinational operations can also cause certain problems, if, for example, you participate in multinational operations with military units, not with doctors, because that's how it starts, that's how the Germans got instead of political and military components. We know all that. You might get terrorism, say, in the Raska area, or bombs in Belgrade, because of Afghanistan. Given that there is no agreement within the ruling coalition, because, as far as I know, DSS colleagues have declared military neutrality, and some other parties, however, believe that, instead of talking about some integrations, some say with the Russian Federation, some are at any cost to Euro-Atlantic integration, this issue is not discussed. We do not know what the future political option will be, though more or less, it may be known – the European Union, but what will be the military component of Serbia and to what extent will we allow our people, who have died and are to be punished, say, in The Hague tribunal, or from our courts here, because they have defended their country, to go into these multinational operations? Tomorrow, God forbid, let two slightly better-armed Albanian villages, which have 20,000 soldiers, as far as Serbia has today, go to the Presevo Valley -- we will probably answer only to the Gendarmeria and the police, since there are questions whether we will defend our territory militaryly. That, too, we haven't discussed. The issue of participation, therefore, in multinational operations, is one very interesting question. Here, simply, there are as many eyes as there are in the law present, as far as the law says. If I were to express my private opinion, I think it would be best for both our people, and for our country, and for this assembly, and for this government, that any such possible use of the Assembly would be decided by, and by two-thirds of the majority, how, though, and predict our acts, but on every occasion, by law, that we would remain silent, even if we were doctors, and not by God, military staff, strictly determine, because I don't think Serbia should send its soldiers to fight for any interests anywhere. Besides, the tendency in this law is to talk about defense. I'm very surprised that sending our soldiers to other countries has been defined as the concept of defence. We can talk about how the Americans could use the help of Serb soldiers, with war experience, Afghanistan and Iraq, and that perhaps, at the will of the US or the actions of the Serbian political elite, would improve our relations, and not improve relations, but that some of the gentlemen here from the corresponding political policy qualify as - increase Serbia's reputation in the world, right? (Dragan Todorovic, from the city: Democratic capacity. That's right, democratic capacity can do that. So it would improve our reputation for sending our soldiers to war for the expense of other people's interests. I don't think Serbia needs that right now. On the one hand, we here, undo the word patriotism, convince people not to go to the army, promote some civil society, whose values I have nothing against. After all, the consequence of Christianity is a civil society, and the question is how does anyone understand it? But we can't convince our people here that we don't need an army, or that we don't need, at least, such a great army, so we don't have to fight for our country the way the state requires it. To translate -- it seems to me that there is a lot in this law that could have been heard in various courses, from Budapest to Washington. They served to destroy the established system in Serbia at the time. Now we want what we learned in those courses to apply to preserve Serbia. That's paradoxical. I can't do some of the things that were attacked during the 1990s to break the defence system, now to promote themselves here as a way to defend Serbia. It's paradoxical to me. Why do I think he's a good amendment to fellow Martinovic? Because it says here, in Article 7, that basic strategic and doctrinal documents are in the area of defence - the national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Army doctrine. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have any of these documents. What was adopted in the Federal Assembly, absolutely, does not correspond to the reality that Serbia is facing today - Montenegro has left us alone, we have Wahhabi in Sandzak. In the previous strategic review, we found that Serbia cannot be attacked by any side of the country around. I don't know how true that is, probably, at this point, it is, but we have defined as a fundamental problem for national security - terrorism. I see that this law also speaks of the possibility of using the army in internal relations, probably referring to terrorism. I don't think there's any possible social unrest that would be caused by workers or anything like that. I'm not sure he's thinking of labour unrest. The government is convinced that workers, because of the non-solid attitude of the union and the absence of solidarity, are unable to organise themselves in the manner that workers' solidarity would demand at this time in Serbia. So here we adopt a law that provides that jobs in the field of defence will arrange the necessary doctrines, and that, in doing so, we have not discussed between us where Serbia is going in political and military terms. To make things worse, it is not only the opposition that advocates it, but neither the current power between itself, or the current ruling coalition amongst themselves, that issue has not discussed it. It is not possible to talk about the quality of this law and the new quality that the Ministry of Defence will receive in the way that it will carry out its actions without having discussed these issues before. I'll get you back to the Dayton Agreement. If I'm not mistaken, the Dayton Agreement envisioned that Serbia had 110.000 troops. Politically, Serbia was scheduled to be a factor of peace and stability in the Balkans. This meant – the most politically influential, economically wealthy and militaryly powerful country in the Balkans. They may have lied to us when they offered us that status, but the Dayton Agreement and military annexes offered such a thing to Serbia. Someone here will stand up to dispute why Serbia lost it, but, as far as I know, the Dayton Agreement is still in effect. Then the question arises, since apart from economic parameters that may be defendable, because in eight years, how many crisises in Serbia, as it is said, we have done nothing seriously in the field of economy other than introduce VAT, can we, with eight billion euros in budgets, defend Serbia in a good way? Absolutely asking that question. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: There are no 8 billion euros. There are no full eight billion, I agree. No, it's not a budget for the Army, I meant the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister. I agree that you don't have enough money, but for 20,000 soldiers and an explanation that the military needs to be less and more efficient, we will agree that neither what is foreseen in the budget – for the simple survival of those 20,000 soldiers and the quality of their lives, concluded with the quality of weapons, military equipment, communication funds, maintenance of tanks, reparation of planes, is not enough. These are the realities the Department of Defense needs to think about. I am also not sure that, when adopting the doctrine that Serbia should have 20,000 soldiers, all possible dangers, and you call them security challenges, are respected in the right way. I'm even absolutely sure, it's not a new practice in Serbia, that we had foreign consultants about this. I don't want to call this access to any treason, but I'd really like to know why this -- that we're going to send soldiers to peace missions, is not better worked out? So that's a question for me. We have security challenges which Serbia is exposed to and in the Raška area, I will not talk about Kosovo in the Presevo Valley, and we have 20,000 soldiers now organised by another principle. This is now some kind of brigade, no longer a Corps organization, etc. I have to present some of my personal analyses, they're not as good-quality as the very generals who are now surrounded by the Ministry of Defense, because the generals who have had military experience, obviously, were too radical, I don't think – members of a radical party, but too radical in that military approach, that we have, too, so to speak, bowed down to some requests on the side. Believe me, the moment we start, if that happens, God forbid we send our soldiers somewhere to Afghanistan, or Iraq, or, God forbid, Iran, because that's where these human rights are being exercised and democracy is being introduced, they've already run over us, no one will mind that Serbia has more than 20,000 soldiers. It is possible that you will consider some of the suggestions that I have now made in the strategic defence review, in the new defence doctrine, that you may consider some of the proposals that have been presented here, perhaps Serbia will move economically forward, so it will allow more troops, better police equipment, a different doctrine of Serbia, which is positioned in the centre of the Balkans, in military, political and economic terms. You can really think about it. I call on you to do so now, since we have not discussed this issue among us, because there is no political unity within the ruling coalition. A lot of powers have been given to the President of the Republic on this subject. Too often in this House, the power of arguments has been replaced by the power of the number, by the fact that the ruling coalition, which is being negotiated as agreed, has enough MPs to adopt what it wants to propose, so think about it. All this about sending our soldiers to some Iraq, Afghanistan or anywhere else, and even a doctor, let's say, we don't do that for at least the next two or five years. As far as I'm concerned, we need such an opportunity to leave it as an exclusive possibility for Parliament, not with its decision, not with the recommendation of the President of the State, but with the law to regulate - the stay of our soldiers where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12980	The word has been made by the People's MP Pastor Balint, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12981	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I asked you from this place on Monday a very well-intentioned question, which referred to the delivery of military calls, primarily in Western Buck. I did not claim that this is not happening in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, but I said there is a great concern about these calls for the takeover of military schedules in Vojvodina, primarily in Western Buck. For this reason, I have asked you to answer this question, so that we can calm these citizens with common forces. I think it's completely human and it's consistent with the functioning of human psyche that these people are concerned about the simple fact that these people were the first to be referred to the front of the 1990s, in a war where, officially, the Republic of Serbia did not participate, in the war we fought together, and your party, Mr. Minister, as well as the party that I belong to. I asked you a question on the basis of what regulation does that make? Is this about mobilization? Is that just the first step towards mobilization? Can you guarantee from this place that the Republic of Serbia will not fight and that these people have nothing to worry about? You, Mr. Minister, didn't give me an answer, but you answered Mrs. Vesni Pesic when she asked this same question. I wasn't in the O.R. back then. In that answer to you, Mr. Minister, Vesni Pesic, you've maximumly insulted the party I belong to, regardless of what I didn't mention to your client or you personally. I believe it is my opinion that your Monday statements regarding the party I belong to, regarding the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, are not appropriate, are not worthy of the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. From this place, today I will try to get an answer, in the interest of all these citizens, from you, Mr. Minister. I must say that I was very pleased with Mr Tadic's statement, the President of the Republic, at the meeting of the General Committee of your party, that Serbia will not fight. I'd like to hear the same from the Secretary-General. I ask you once again, with respect, to answer this question. This question is well-intentioned and is set to put an end to this problem, so that we don't have to restart it. Once again, I would like to say, the same thing I said on Monday, that the Union of Duchy Hungarians invited all these obligors to respond to the call. In our party's statement, we told these people that, according to us, there was no room for concern, that it wasn't about mobilization, but we were witnesses, a dozen or fifteen years ago, that it was the same way, or in a similar way, all that went on. We would simply like to hear from the Registrar about the delivery of military calls. As you've seen and heard, Mr. Minister, I didn't mention your party today, I didn't insult any party or you personally. I ask you to answer this question, so we don't have to again, and in the media, and from this place, to ask this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12982	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milan Škrbić, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a colleague of the SRS MP Aleksandar Martinovic has submitted an amendment to Article 11, in an act that speaks of the President of the Republic, as well as his powers. I'll stay for the touch. Seven and nine. I think it is important to say, for the sake of the MPs, and for the citizens of Serbia, to write at point 7 - orders the implementation of alertness measures, general and partial mobilization. If we did one analysis, and that analysis was supposed to be done by the Ministry of Defense personnel, we can see that civil service is a special pearl in military reform. According to 2006 data, 44% of the recruiting contingent did not carry out any training, as these recruits were at civilian military service, so it is not possible to engage them in civil protection either. That's the data I came up with for 2006. This further complicates the problem of Serbia's military training in the coming period, while warning those responsible that after 2010, a huge number of high school students, students, citizens themselves, will not be trained for any military duty. At this point, there's no answer to what I'm saying by the state authorities. That's the problem. Point 9), a colleague of Bajatovic just spoke about it, he says, according to the law, about sending members of the Serbian Army into multinational operations, based on a decision by the National Assembly. With some searches, and by reading, I've seen some modular units mentioned, I think it's some professional name, which will be sent to these hotspots and that will fit into other complex compositions as needed. I think this concept corresponds to the developed countries of the West and their military doctrines and state interests. It corresponds to powerful states, technically trained, which have strict military discipline, high financial compensation for people who need to go to these hotspots, which should serve constant control of capitalist interests. I think it's the ideas of an army of consumer society, which breeds soldiers of a cold heart and a mercenary spirit. You see, if our country were to enter this process and about 100,000 troops should be engaged, the United Nations forces, then our country, relative to the number of inhabitants, military potentials available and financial power, and we know what it is, compared to all other UN members, should give the unit, approximately, the rank of one water of about 30 people. Then we all wonder, why run into aimless costs, and say we have no money, and the delusions of these modular units, which, by spirit, I repeat, do not correspond to our state and political beings, do not correspond to national mentality or to war experiences.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12984	The word has been given by the MP, Miss Alexandra Jerkov, when the minister returns. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12985	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, Col. Martinovic proposed this amendment to delete and delete certain points of the 2nd article in Article 11(1), explaining that this is not the Vojsca law. Of course this isn't Army law. Article 1 of this law, which is essentially an organic law, system law, regulates the defence of the country, and Article 2 of this law is realized by the engagement of available human and material resources, and provides for the use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces. We are therefore in the view that, given that the defence is not only being achieved by the Serbian Army, but also by other resources and other bodies, it is necessary in this law, as it stands in Chapter Two, to prescribe the powers of the state authorities in the area of defence, as well as the competence of the National Assembly, the authority of the Government, the responsibility of the Ministry. We believe it is necessary to prescribe the powers of the President of the Republic by this law as a system law. So it's true that it's not the military law, but the defense isn't just being used and hired by the military. I would refer only to part of the debate relating to point 9. A number of distinguished colleagues here spoke of item 9 of Article 2 of this Law, and it refers to the participation of members of the Army in multinational operations. The President of the Republic, under the proposal of this law, decides, in accordance with the law, to refer members of the Serbian Army to multinational operations, but based on a decision by the National Assembly. So we have here a supremacy of the National Assembly against the President of the Republic, that is, his decision to refer our troops. Otherwise, I must remind myself that the tradition, the military tradition of Serbia, was such that it participated, as an independent state, was in the composition of the federal states that so far existed, from the Kingdom, through the Socialist Yugoslavia, that the military participated in a large number of multinational operations and that it was in some way our trademark and pride. I believe that the provision of this member and, in general, this member should remain in this form as suggested by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12986	Are any of the other MPs coming forward for this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12987	Mr Albianic, I hope you have noticed why it is important that there is an open debate in the Assembly on what is the subject of today's agenda. I rightly think that the National Assembly needs more time to dedicate what is written in Article 11 paragraph 2 point 9 and it is good that the president of the Legislative Committee has come out to comment on this amendment by Mr Martinovic. The question is indeed what could the President of the Republic still decide, and yet in accordance with the law, regarding the decision of the National Assembly on the sending of our members of the armed forces to peacekeeping missions around the world, if it excludes the competence of the National Assembly to decide, and to say - at the invitation of the United Nations, we would very much like to send peace forces, our armed forces in the composition of the multinational armed forces of the United Nations, which would stand at the border between the United States and Canada, to separate the two conflicted sides. Perhaps the National Assembly shows a great degree of humanity and struggle for human rights and says -- we are capable, we are going to separate them from arguing, not to pull weapons, not to cause major conflicts, with unspeakable consequences, given that they are nuclear forces, that they can be targeted by atomic bombs, etc. The National Assembly, in respect of the citizens of the United States and Canada, there are also our citizens, says - we will send two brigades to separate them. A possible situation is that the United Nations, dominated by the United States, says -- needs forces from the Serbian Army to go to separate the conflicted sides of the United States and, say, Iran. Why would we send Mr. Shutanovec to the head of that team? What would our interest be here? In this government, now the adviser to President Kostunica is that Mr. Parivodic. He was once a minister and brought out a new doctrine of sovereignty from this pay phone. He said, "Only one who has an atomic bomb is sovereign, one who has no atomic bomb is not sovereign." That's what the professor of international law, who they didn't choose at Law School, said, he sold to the Santa Clauses, or the marshals...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12988	We don't remember that statement, Mr. Krassic. Please finish your exposure. Time's running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12989	I just want to point out the seriousness of this point nine, and you're interrupting me. I'll take the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12990	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12991	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this morning I examined the answers to the parliamentary questions that we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I want to speak by Article 201 concerning the answer to the parliamentary question that I have received. I did not want to report in the course of the debate on amendments to this law, so that it would not be wrong to interpret how we of the SRS use too many Rules of Procedure, although it is our right, but because of the fact that the minister has left this room and that some MPs, even, say they will not speak of certain amendments in the absence of the minister, which they are absolutely right, I will be the absence of the minister, and I hope that in the meantime he will return, to use me to comment on the answer to this parliamentary question. Since counterpart Krasic also reported to the Rules of Procedure, I assume there are still others from the SRS who will use this time of the absence of Minister Sutanovac to talk about other things. I asked Minister Dusan Petrovic, when he was at the session, to examine whether Mr. Slobodan Vučetic was committing a crime by receiving the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court instead of retirement. If he commits a crime, can the decisions he has signed as President of the Constitutional Court be legitimate and legal? Will Mr. Slobodan Vučetic be responsible for the damage done to Serbian citizens, his arbitrary decisions that were not in line with the Constitution and the law? Mr. Dusan Petrovic said in response - in accordance with Article 166. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court is a independent and independent state body, which protects constitutionality and legality, human and minority rights and freedoms. In this regard, the Ministry of Justice does not have the information which is subject to the parliamentary question and is not competent to answer that parliamentary question. Since Mr Dusan Petrovic, apparently, avoided the answer to the question and I personally feel offended by this response, underestimated the intelligence of the MPs, because the answer to this question was received by all the MPs in the material we received yesterday, I am now in a similar situation, I am going to expand it a little, I am asking Mr Vojislav Kostunica and I suggest that the answer to the agreement with Mr Boris Tadic, because a few days ago we were able to see a document read by Mr. Dragan Todorovic, which shows that Mr. Slobodan Vukevic informed the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic that in September of last year he had obtained a pension condition. Don't play me, look at article 201. I have the right to speak for five minutes under Article 201, Mr. Albianic. I also refer the question to President Kostunica and Tadic – why did Tadic not inform the National Assembly that he had received written notice from Slobodan Vucic that he had obtained the right to retire? Mr. Kostunica can see with his ministers who is in charge of answering the question whether Slobodan Vukevic is committing a crime and whether he will answer it. We think he is, and he needs to answer, and since Petrovic doesn't know it, let Kostunica see who knows. I'm looking for an urgent answer to this supplemental question. Meanwhile, Mr. Slobodan Vucetic has become a columnist of a daily list in Serbia from time to time reporting in his columns, accusing the MPs of calling him for spending state and national money, and he has no right to do so. I ask, why hasn't he been formally relieved of the position of President of the Constitutional Court yet? In those columns, Mr. Vučetic connects all MPs. He says -- he's called radicals, with his partner Vladan Batic, or vice versa, I don't know. Madam Radeta, please... ) Of course we have nothing to do with, in political terms, with Vladan Batic, nor with the parliamentary group he belongs to, nor with his party, and the fact that Vladan Batic has prepared the same thing that we have, that Slobodan Vučetic has been stealing this people for a year and a few days, with the support of Kostunica and Tadic, it is really not our problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12992	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, then by MP Vladan Batic, then by Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12993	Mr Albianic, this is a member of our 136th Rules of Procedure and I think that Mr Sutanovac, as an authorised representative for this item of the agenda, must explain to us all the modes of the situation referred to in Article 11 paragraph 2. 9). To visit - the President of the Republic decides, in accordance with the law, to refer members of the Serbian Army to multinational operations, based on a decision by the National Assembly. The National Assembly is authorized by the Constitution to decide. I took two theoretically possible situations, but now I'm asking a question - what would the President of the Republic decide further? What could he decide? What equipment are they going to wear? That's what the General Staff is going to decide, it's a purely professional matter, military nature, whether that one helicopter is going to fly, or these "migs" that aren't being renovated. It's a fact, there's no help. What uniforms will they wear? It's already prescribed. Whether they put the UN emblem on their left or right sleeve, that's what the UN will decide, their supreme command. What could Tadic decide further? It decides according to the law, according to the practice so far, as DS does, there could be approximately a hint of what it means. This is the situation when the National Assembly adopts a resolution and says -- it is recommended for Serbs not to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, not all points in that order are reached, and then Boris Tadic says -- I call on Serbs to go to the polls. So that, in the version of Boris Tadic's creative authorship, would mean that some proposal was here, the National Assembly rejected it, and Boris Tadic, said – that we are sending so many soldiers. That is why they need such a formulation by this farmer from the agricultural cooperative, because he could otherwise not fit what the Constitution is and what is the interest of the man who is currently in the position of the President of the Republic. Apparently, there are secret agreements, secret deals. We now have some of our representatives on peacekeeping missions. Probably because they learn English. I think we urgently need to pass one law, or we need to install in the Military Act a member who prohibits the military and the officers of the Serbian Army from using foreign language. Why? Because the current doctrine, applied at the Military Academy, is a successful, advanced officer, finished the Academy and knows English. The weight is in English, and I want to convince you, when the weight is in English in the military, then it's a message – you'll be cannon meat for someone's foreign interests, other interests, because you've been designed, with that English language, to serve those who enslave Serbia. This point 9 deserves, perhaps, a special session, which would discuss whether we can, in general, consider whether the President of the Republic can ask a question beyond what the National Assembly decides.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12994	National MP Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12995	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the normal controversy over the provision of article 9 of Article 11 concerning the powers of the President of the Republic, among other things, to refer members of the Serbian Army to multinational operations on the basis of a decision by the National Assembly. However, before we consider sending troops into multinational forces and operations, we should consider the position of the military here, in the country, or military taxpayers, or, of course, military reservers. I am saying this for the already known reason and situation of the double arches for the Toplico, Jablanic and Nisavski district military reserve, but I would not mention it, these double arches and how people in Serbia share in the citizens of the first, second or the enthin order, but we have one problem. Just at the time of these war calls, I am surprised that Mr Krasic did not suggest that, at the head of these multinational forces, Alexander Simic, because he, by the way, is calling for wars and conflicts, so it seems to me that he could take some place at the head of some of our contingents within multinational troops, so at the time of these wars, calls are made to the south of Serbia, no one accepts them. These people have already, responding to the call of the homeland, gone at the time of death, suffering and death, at the time of NATO intervention; they have been played, they have broken the thresholds, they have been shagged from the merciless to the unloved, and there is no answer, or there are, like, arrogant and arrogant answers. That's how people, with military bonds, with ex-boyfriends, but also with future reserves are not treated. I'd like to mention something else that may not have anything to do with this subject, but it's globally and geostratically related to the whole story, and it's related to the next one. According to the latest allegations, Russian-Italian pipeline, so-called The South Stream, will bypass Serbia, will go through Romania, as published on the Energy Observer website. Namely... I called about the amendment. I'm not in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12996	Go ahead, Mr. Batic, but we've broken the order a little bit, because there are people who've called in the Rules of Procedure. Continue, please, I think there will be tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12997	I won't use it all the time, just to say something about this pipeline, because it's important geostrategic, and it has to do with both the position of our military forces and the position of the country's defence. So, according to the latest reports, it will happen because the Italian company EMI and Russia's Gazprom have come to the preliminary conclusion that the route, instead of through Serbia, should pass through Romania, then Hungary and the Czech Republic. The editor of the energy site, Mrs Pistalova, believes that the decision on the South Stream has already been made, and that Serbia's Energy Ministry will soon receive an official response to Gazprom. Also, the story is thought to have ended at Serbia's expense and not to blame Gazprom, but the Serbian government. In her opinion, the main culprits are former Energy Minister Radomir Naumov and his co-worker, who is still sitting in the ministry, Mr. Milutin Soldovic. Why? Because they literally gave the Russians the South Stream company, and the people lied that this company was actually going to build the South Stream through Serbia. This has not been done, and it is further said that only when it is a topic in Parliament will Russia start taking Serbia seriously. I think that should be the topic, because it is said here that 200,000m euros are lost on an annual basis. Who lies and deceives Serbian citizens? On account of what Mrs Radeta mentioned, I, too, received some very unconvinced, not answer, but a avoidance of the answer from Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic. Unfortunately, the president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is today also retired from Slobodan Vučetic, who, as we address this, has been receiving a regular salary of 230. 1,000 dinars. On the board of directors, it's "the official messenger" to improve his financial skills a little bit. By the way, I'm taking the opportunity to appeal to the President of the Republic. As far as I'm aware, a list of 10 candidates has been verified and I don't know what awaits the President of the Republic to elect five of those 10 candidates, so that the constitutional court's blockade will be overcome, so that it can work and that the brightness of things on the agenda will finally see the light of day. Among other things, the National Initiative, i.e. the Initiative, to declare itself an anti-constitutional provision in the Law on Broadcasting concerning television subscription. Almost 50% of the country's citizens don't pay television subscription. Right, because it's an anti-constitutional hack. It is an initiative launched by the Democratic Party of Serbia more than two years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12998	The word has been given by the People's MP, Miss Alexandra Jerkov, on behalf of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u12999	Mr. Chairman, just a correction, I've reported to the Halfman. Actually, I want to ask Mr. Minister one more time, why aren't you answering us? That's a very important question, what Mr. Pastor asked you is extremely important. So we know that the Democratic Party has responded to Mr Simic's statements that national interests are being defended by war. Then, that war is a remedy, if there is no other. His third statement is that it's a position of wisdom and celery. "Serbia has experienced negative experiences in the civil war and that is why it is on guard. National interests are defended by war. ''We know that the DS responded to this statement, but unfortunately for us as MPs in the Serbian Parliament, nor to the citizens of Serbia, it is not enough party statement. I want you, as a minister, to hear you tell me that this is not so, to tell me that Serbia will not go to any war and that it is the government's position. Because if Serbia is not going to go to war, why does the prime minister's advisor, from the position of prime minister's advisor, speak in a public situation of some kind of general mobilization, of some kind of war? Why do you let him get involved in your business that way? Why are you letting the public get upset in this way? I want to hear from you what you're going to do about it. Are you going to launch an initiative for his shift at the next cabinet session? Will this man in any way be responsible for the statements he makes, without being condemned by the Democratic Party? In fact, since it is not the first time Minister Simic has such excursions, it cannot end as before. Well, he's a little silly, so now let's, one of the government's parties condemned it, the government didn't do anything. So, I don't want your party to be fenced from it, I want the government to be fenced from it, or, if the government isn't able to fence from it, why isn't it able to? Isn't that the government's position? Is the government's view that maybe they'll go to war, and maybe they won't? So I ask you to tell the citizens, from the position of the minister, what you intend to do with their lives and in which direction they will develop further. After that, I want you to say that it is the government's position and that in the future anyone who expresses the opposite views will be held accountable for what he said, that he will bear responsibility. If you can't say that, if you can't say that's the government's position, then please tell me what is the common bond that binds your two parties to the government, which is the future that you're leading us to, if you can't agree on even such a simple question – whether we're going to live in peace, or whether young people will still die in the wars you're going to send them to, as if they haven't died enough, as if they haven't suffered enough, as if they haven't suffered enough. So I ask you to decide on that, to tell the citizens, or, if you are unable to do so, if you are unable to oppose your coalition partners and to say that there will be no war and that no one else will die, then step aside and let those who are able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13000	Anyone else want a word about the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13001	Thank you very much. I'm reporting for the amendment, and I know that the SPS has a little time left, so I'm gonna try to be brief. It is about Article 11, point 9, sending members of the Serbian Army into multinational operations, based on a decision by the National Assembly. Of course, it is not a reference, first of all, to professional structures, such as doctors, i.e. the structures of the Sanitary Service, ABHO, engineering and other military structures. It is, above all, about planning a military police service, which now has about 1,400 people and which accounts for about 4.5 percent of the military, which means, somewhere around 30,000 soldiers we have today, in these multinational forces. Those are, by the way, professional soldiers. As of this year, there are no more soldiers who are on regular military service and who have mainly completed special tests and special courses, precisely, for this kind of participation. I wonder if it's moral, as far as Serbia is concerned? Imagine that we now need to send such a single structure into multinational forces, and we currently, in Serbia's territory, have just this kind of organisation, KFOR, on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, which is an inalienable part of our territory. How did these people come, or how did these forces come into our territory? Well, we know -- not voluntarily, not by our will, but they came after the unprecedented sanctions, after the bombing, they came forced into our territory. We rightly consider them the occupiers of our territory. Who makes those forces? It is those countries that are mainly announcing that they may also support Kosovo's secession.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13002	Mr. Dimitrievich, please, we have to finish, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13003	Just for the end, imagine the situation so that we now decide to send such a formation, that the secession of Kosovo happens and that they support such a secession of Kosovo. Could it happen that we send our forces to defend the interests of some other Serbs in our territory? Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13004	Does anyone else want a word about the amendment of MP Aleksandr Martinovic? (No) National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13005	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14(4) in which I request that the position of the 4th member be defined more precisely, where the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence is sought to the President of the Republic. In the member himself, there are 43 points that say what the Ministry of Defence should do, which are its responsibilities, which are its obligations, what it regulates, what it plans, what it organises, what it proposes, what it makes, etc. The government's reasoning is more than unclear because it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 14(4) solutions are accepted. The bill, which is precisely, 'adjusts the way the President of the Republic's acts are carried out', we absolutely agree, is confirmed by these 43 points, 'and the acts brought by the Minister of Defence under his authority', and we do not agree, 'as well as the responsibility of the Minister of Defence for their execution, so it is unnecessary to stress this in particular'. It says, "and responsibility." It doesn't say "whom." One sentence does not change the essence of this article. It is important that, behind the term "responsibility", the words "the President of the Republic" are added, because we can come into this situation that you have also come into, that one minister be from one party, that the President of the Republic be from another party and that this disagreement can be quite represented, especially in terms of acts brought by the minister under his authority. So, what am I saying? If the minister adopts an act that the President of the Republic disagrees with, he has no one to answer to, except that it is formally indicated here. If the Minister, for example, brings an act that needs to go to peace missions somewhere around the world, and the President of the Republic disagrees, to whom does he answer? Or does the President of the Republic agree on two countries, and he writes an act for six countries, for example, to whom does the defence minister answer? That's why I submitted the amendment, so that these things would be more precise, which is why I cited in the explanation of the amendment. I'll just read some points for the public. Since the whole point, more specifically, Article 14, refers to the Ministry of Defense, it is natural to ask some questions only to the minister. Here are the obligations that are generally known – "the development of a draft national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia", so you need to get to know the president and be responsible for him. "Making a draft law on the confirmation of international contracts," should the president know what some contract contains? Of course, and if that doesn't add up, you have to answer to him if you've applied him. I'm just going to read some points, so I don't read all 43. "Executing the decisions of the President of the Republic on sending professional military personnel into multinational operations." That's what I said at the beginning. "Planning, organising, implementing and controlling the measure of civil protection." What if it's not well-planned? Will you answer to the president for that? "Research, development, production and transport of weapons and military equipment". What if there's no development, what if there's no production, what if there's no arms and military equipment? For that, perhaps, only to be held accountable by the minister or president, so that some other political party representatives also take a stand towards the country's president. "Planning, organizing, monitoring and building military facilities." This is interesting, because of Marshallt on Santa. So these are all obligations of the Ministry of Defence or of the Minister, for which he has to answer to the president, which is why I asked that, under Article 14, Article 14, the words "and the President of the Republic" should be added to make certain things clear; it does not necessarily mean that the President of the Republic will be of the same party as the minister. These are, essentially, the same things, just more precise, so that there are no abuses, that hot potatoes are transferred from one institution to another, so that in the end, the culprit for some bad moves doesn't even recognize it. Second, I'm going to use this amendment to ask the minister about some details regarding the Ministry of Defense, more specifically the Ministry where he's been in charge since this year. So, nine senior officers from the top of the Department of Defense are retired for New Year's Eve as a gift. Among them are doctors of science and regular professors who participated in the defence of the country against NATO aggression. The case works, Colonel Markovic, Colonel Miskovic, etc. These are people with great experience, who know the Army, and now, under the auspices of some kind of military reform, they're retired as unnecessary soldiers. Then who's doing the reform, the question? In these places, unprofessional people, who do not have the support of their colleagues, are placed because everyone knows how they got there. Now, congratulatory officers, who heroically defended their country, look with great fear at the big steps of Mr. Minister and his assistants, who are as professional as he is, because they were appointed not as experts, but as fellow ministers from the university, such as Assistant Minister Ilija Filipovic. The question is, where did he come from, how professional he is in the area he's doing, does he know the system he came into? Doesn't a man who carries out the reform, for him, an unknown system, need people with experience, who will help him carry out his duties? No, he doesn't need them, because he doesn't want to advance, he wants to destroy this army for the rest of his life. He's just one link in a chain that goes through the defence minister and his employers. Mr. Minister is talking about improving the physical state of the military faces, but that's nothing to do, and the military faces don't feel that improvement, especially those nine who are now getting, as a reward, that they're going to retire for New Year's Eve beyond their will. Here the question arises, how many officers and officers live in barracks and military facilities, how many newborn babies right out of the maternity home came to the barracks and how many people died in the barracks without waiting to get what they had done, to be escorted from their home, not from the rooms in which some have spent today, Mr. Minister, for 15 years? The Ministry of Defence has found a solution to the housing issue as well. Their answer is simple, so says the famous Ponos -- mother Serbia, mother of nature, will take care of them at a meeting with the ministry's housing authorities. No wonder, then, that a group of people, a group of homeless men, as they called themselves, no one has entitled time, nor have you, Mr. Minister, to receive them, so these people have spent 39 working days in the rain and snow. And day and day, no one gave them any answers, and all they asked was a conversation and a meeting with the minister, because they had some suggestions for solutions to their problem. I remind you that both officers and officers live in these barracks, retired military persons with their families, who have no right to visit, because they live in barracks, have no right to guests, have no right to glory, or anything, because they live in military facilities. To support this, I'm going to set an example. Mr. Sutanovac, is it true that Mr. Svetko Kovac, retired at the end of 2005, in the general's act still performs the duties of the Chief of Staff, or the Director of the Military Security Agency, still works as Director or Chief, I am not precise, although he has been retired for two years? What is a qualification for this job and what results did it achieve to be VBA's chief of staff as a pensioner? Is it also how much work he's accomplished? How much did the weighty task, specifically, be it the security of the army minister, the murdered Pavel Bulatovic, because he was in charge? Is Svetko Kovač a member of the Management Board "Jugoimport SDPR", the Federal Directorate for Transport of Special Purpose Stock Reserves? It's not. Were you, Mr. Minister, a member of the board of directors of the same firm? You're not. Does the son of Svetko Kovaca work in SDPR and the daughter in Boris Tadic's Cabinette? On what basis did he get or acquire a house next to VMA, on Raška Street 22? When we connect all these things and these friendly connections from the faculty of the minister, with some directions, such as the directions for steam boilers, and they're called "wrapped in bow", hydroenergy, etc., we'll get a clear picture of why the army stagnates. In the end, Mr. Minister, I want to give you something. This is a damaged plane of the F16 NATO Air Force, which was shot down by the 'lards' soldiers from the barracks Bar, or by the 63rd Motorised Brigade, where I served a military deadline. He was torn down, landed forcefully, so down, on Albanian territory, from the "bofors" cannon, which exists now, and only ten pieces in Serbia, and 15 remain in the barracks and are held by the Montenegrin Army, the professional Army of Montenegro. This amendment fits this story, by asking that your responsibility be directly directed towards the President of the Republic, because if you do not have responsibility for the President of the Republic, who will surely be Tomislav Nikolic, you will end up as well as this plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13006	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then MP Dusan Bajatovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member is one of, I would say, the most important in the law, because it defines the work of the Ministry of Defense. That the law is inaccurate and, legally-formally, in some parts, and counter-constitutionally done, says this member, because the SRS disagrees that the Ministry of Defence has these powers, and it is written as if Mr Sutanovac thinks he will be defence minister for the rest of his life and Boris Tadic is the President of the Republic. So, Mr. Sutanovac, certain points of authority and jurisdiction that the Ministry of Defence has, and they are 43, you have to explain to us, because it is obvious that you did not want to adopt the amendment of young colleague Milan Avramovic. In fact, in the fourth position, we have strictly stated that everything that the Ministry of Defence has taken over should be approved by the President of the Republic, and you say it is a unnecessary formulation, that this is understood by Article 112. The constitution, that it should not stand, and the possibility of abuse is great. I'm going to give you some concrete examples now. You came here today for the first time since, a few days ago, you were Minister of Defence at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't even show up at the Defense and Security Committee session, Mr. Sutanovac, and something happened that we don't know. So, a few days ago, in principle debate, I mentioned to the general public a little known document, the so-called presentation document on Serbia's co-operation as part of the Partnership for Peace, which was adopted on July 27th at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a serious thing. First I have to tell you it's completely pointless that you came with this law without having these strategic military, doctrinal documents, so now I have questions for you. You're, by the way, known as a talkative man, I don't know what's wrong with you this morning, just shut up, I can see that you're not recording any questions, and if your capacity is, maybe I've been wronged earlier, so you can remember this, I'll start by asking you in line, and you'll be kind enough to answer. So, making a proposal for the Serbian Army doctrine. It began to be developed shortly before you came to the post of Minister of Defense and this new doctrine, according to NATO's concerns, envisioned the reorganisation, professionalization of the Army, which you stand for. Now I ask you a question, what does that mean, does this mean a complete reorganisation of the Army, does this mean only professionalisation in terms of creating a professional part of the Serbian Army and how much will it cost Serbia? Does this mean complete modernisation, because you're constantly contradictory in those statements, because these are all different concepts? I need you to explain to us where the money came from for all of this. It's nice when you show up, camp, eat snakes, frogs and come to you from Ohio. Yesterday I listened to what you said, you were on the road, or your media reported a statement from Paris, but these are all hollow and empty stories, Mr. Sutanovac. Our military equipment, what the Land Army has, what the Air Force has, is almost 20 years old, with some exceptions. Secondly, the MIG that was waiting for you here yesterday, while you were on the road, despite the paper, one of the MIG's 29, it's just one of, to joke a little like Mr. Todorovic, out of the five that we have. By the end of the year, we need to get two refurbisheds from Russia, so I'm wondering if, in that sense, Mr. Putin, as defence minister, you've had an important job, congratulating your victory in Sunday's election? Because that's where our military equipment is remounted, our two MiGs? I'm curious, Mr. Sutanovac, when will you appear in front of the National Assembly with this document? Indeed, I do not have time, only to report later, on behalf of another amendment, to read to the MPs who are all our obligations and what has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on your proposal, as Minister Vuk Jeremic presented in Brussels on 5 September this year. You really owe us answers to these questions, Mr. Sutanovac, who will finance it and why have you taken over, not asking citizens of Serbia, through the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all these obligations that we now have? I'm done, Mr. Albianic. You didn't mark the time well, I saw there that you stole two minutes of the SRS MP's group. If you engage with us in a serious debate, I guess you're prepared for it, you have those advisors there, then you have to give us answers to all these questions, Mr. Sutanovac, because the people who are professionals, soldiers, have finished the highest officer schools, or academy, general schools, are now still in the rank of colonels, who worked in the Kragujeva garrison, who were abolished by your arrival as defence minister, and even earlier began to collapse the Army, are interested in answering these specific questions. That's not a political story, so to speak, it's a radical story. Our story is politically much better quality, and our ideology and program, than what DS offers. Fine, go out here and say, in front of the public, in front of the military bonds, in front of future recruits, in front of the officers, in front of the officers, where it is today and what the situation in the Army is about our mobility, flexibility. For some who do not know the Constitution of Serbia and who do not know what the Army is, I can explain to you by tomorrow what the role of the military is, and they do not know it, and then they ask you some nonstop questions when it comes to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. As a responsible man, if that is so, go out and tell those people what they can count on and where the Serbian Army is headed with you. In all of this, if we draw a line with today, it goes to total ruin, and I can explain it to you on the following amendments, from one segment to another. We've raised some questions, military homeless people, pension problems, the problem that reservers have, that they're asking the state, and let's start some serious debate, don't just shut up and run to the middle of the bench. No one will bite you. If you have something to say, go ahead, start answering these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13008	Miss Jovanovic, I've let you finish your thought, but that was three and a half minutes longer than you predicted. It's not nice to be accused of something that's a routine record of time. Please, let's take care of it. National MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13009	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if my colleague Natasha poses a military or non-military threat to the Secretary of Defense. In this article 4, and it's about Article 14, you've divided things into military defenses, so define what it is, then civil defense, and define what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13010	Mr. Bayatovic, please don't joke like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13011	Mr. Albianic, I ask you to listen. In the first sentence, I said that what's the definition of the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13012	You don't have to repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13013	I have to do it now. It doesn't make sense. You didn't listen to me. I'm pretty sure these are the concepts that explain the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13014	I'll give you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13015	You don't have to give me back my time, I won't spend all 15 minutes, since it's crucial for you to call the election when it suits you. We said we wouldn't obstruct you. We'll bring all the necessary laws by New Year's Eve, your colleague Radeta told you nicely if it's a nice, cultural, unobstructed atmosphere. So, I'm not gonna spend all 15 minutes, I promise, but you in law start with terms. Now I have to explain, to make people understand what you've defined as certain concepts. So you divided it into military defense and civil defense. What's interesting to me is that you define military challenges, risks and threats of security, so you say they're being exhibited in the form of aggression, armed rebellion and other forms of use of armed forces. Unwary challenges, risks and security threats, which I am very pleased with as it says here, I have to tell you, they appear in the form of terrorism, which, by the way, in previous reviews done in the Federal Assembly, we have defined as, practically, the only real danger (if we go to Iraq, it will really be a danger), organized crime (the first time we face it with the defence component, I would expand it, not the state, but I would also talk about the defence of society, about organised crime), corruption, which, by the way, I agree with, elemental accidents, technical and other accidents and dangers. I must express my satisfaction, Mr. Minister, that in this law, when it comes to the defence of the state and society, even though it is essentially a matter of our people's habits, military matters, it is said that our state and society, which you have well recognized, threatened and organized crime, corruption and elemental disasters. I'd put an emphasis here on crime and corruption. It's a good thing whoever was thinking about defending the country realized that these were also two very big monsters. Why is this about Article 14? Just one little comment, if Mr. Albianic lets me do it. It is very strange, colleagues and fellow MPs, that no amendment has been submitted to the government's competence, given that the government also brings a strategic review of the defence. We've probably all missed it, or the law is very good. Why is this related to Article 14 where the defence department's powers are being spoken of? It's because of this crime and corruption. It is said here, at point 25) of Article 14, that the competences of the Ministry – and research, production and transport of arms and military equipment. You know what kind of affairs we've had, all about some companies that have exclusive rights in our country, say, SDPR. Then, at point 36 – planning, organizing, execution and control of material finance operations. I'm not going to make examples now, but what I'm saying is that with the control of material finance business in the military, I'm going to be very open, at least 15 years back is a very big problem. Point 38 – the acquisition and availability of residential buildings, apartments, garages and business space for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. What I'm interpreting here is the needs of officers who don't have apartments. I mean, it would be very nice to have the rulebook regulate that between officers by contract, soldiers by contract, and, say, those who work at the Department of Defense, when it comes to living space, there's no big difference, or I hear different stories, maybe I'm wrong, but it's not bad. It's not good for some to have 200 square-square flats, maybe, downtown, and others don't. Mr. Minister, I'm just warning you, God forbid it's like that. The minister says he guarantees it won't be like that. It would not be good if when building military apartments, etc., rules allow a great difference between those working at the Ministry of Defence, or in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or in the military cabinet, and those large officers and soldiers. I'd like to... (Zoran Krasic from the place: You believe him? ) It is not a matter of trust, I am absolutely certain that the committee of parliament, and we as MPs, have reason to open our eyes wide when this issue is on the agenda. Article 40 states: co-operation with other ministries and other authorities of the state administration, the authorities of autonomous provinces and bodies of units of local self-government in the preparation and implementation of defence plans and implementation of defence tasks. I cited this because I think part of the problem our soldiers and officers face, where they exist, and today there are not many municipalities where garrisons exist in the Republic of Serbia, can be solved in co-operation with local self-government. Here, in Article 43, it's said - other law jobs. Please, it may seem malignant to someone on my part that I singled out this article 14 this way, but when it comes to privatisation and large economic affairs, except the Velja Ilic ministry or, for example, the Ministry of Telecommunications, there are three major property issues left -- NIS, EPS and military property. In that sense, it would be good to write in this law or to ask the Ministry of Defence and the Government as a whole, because this is about the transparency of the work of both the Ministry and the Government, transparency has become our favorite word, when it comes to military property, as well as the social care of active soldiers, soldiers in retirement, generals, officers, therefore, and soldiers, or possible acquisitions, and I don't mean those purchases that need to be secret, what we have from weapons and military equipment, in which we communicate, but when it comes to apartments, when it comes to full social care, wages and everything else - so that it would be nice to have the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as the Assembly in general, as well as the public, not by means, but in a correct, fair, transparent manner informed of the plans that will be made within the Ministry of Defense, when it comes to bad use. Maybe it's the result of the absence of the necessary planning documents. After all, if we are to be honest, not only do the Ministry of Defence lack basic planning documents, such as the doctrine of defence and similar things, but also some other ministries spend large sums of people's money and, indeed, we do not know on the basis of which priorities, for which needs to end, for which purchases or works are valued. I think one such approach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence would, in particular, raise the level of trust through this so-called transparency. At that time, we would not need to discuss what is said in some newspapers, nor should we, as MPs, be informed on the basis of some websites or articles in public information, because we would receive this information in advance, which may, perhaps, be controversial, or be controversial in our society because we are poor, poor, poor, without work and without enough money. Then it wouldn't be the subject of a debate in, perhaps, a bad way, but based on information provided by the government or, in this case, by the competent defence department. As you can see, Mr. Albianic, I only spent eight minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13016	Thank you very much. On the occasion of the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13017	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. Article 14(2) – on the national security strategy. I'll use the minister's presence to say that the state, apart from other monopolies, has a monopoly on violence. The competent state is ultimately abstaining from abuse of such a monopoly, and the rude state, even political violence, is discredited by taking over the killings. We live in a civilization of representation. Christian civilization is a civilization of representation, a delegation of one for all. On the cross, it hangs for one another and is often abused. The point is, you can think about murder. If you feel that something is necessary, you have the right to do it yourself. It's immoral to delegate someone for that. If you want a war in Kosovo, don't send your sons this time - do it yourself. After four lost wars in which Serbia did not participate, but all the squads lost them, the time came for one turn, for behaviour that would be completely different from that and within which it would refrain from the words for which we saw how much they cost us and how it ended. I ask you to take that kind of responsibility and answer the questions we are asking you about the national security strategy here, to clearly tell us how policy change will take place in relation to this national security strategy, when it comes to Kosovo, because so far it has obviously been unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13018	Does anyone else appear on the amendment of MP Milan Avramovic? (No) Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13019	We're here, Mr. Sutanovac, to the Land Army, right? So you didn't come out to say anything, but let's see. Since this is the situation, and since you have made all these statements in your ministry – that we need professionalisation, modernisation, reorganisation – then we need to face the citizens of Serbia, which we have as a state and what commitments we have made by NATO, or "Partnership for Peace", to tell us, when you will come with this document to the National Assembly to discuss it, that I do not have to read about it from these NATO newspapers "Defense". They've been rooted out, come on, not exactly NATO, because there's another one that's a complete NATO newspaper. This one's loaded because the other side can't be heard. I regularly follow this paper, and you've never done any interviews with the aforementioned Association of Military Homeless. In Kragujevac, where there are no more garrisons, where there are no armies, there are 800 members of the Association of Military Homeless. I've talked to them four or five times. I have for you extensive documentation relating to their status and to resolving the issues of their position in society, because of the fact that they are people who are also retired, who have no apartments and have no place to live. The army doesn't care about them. But let's get this over with. So, we were terribly concerned about the issues that we received last week from your allies, because of the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as you said in the statement, agreed with the consensus, to all the renovations arising from the Partnership for Peace. Every cooperation programme, I have to tell the MPs and the public, it's individual to every country. However, there are some documents that have to be signed and that stem from this presentation document that we were asked about. The question is wrongly referred to my address, Mr Vukovic's address, Dacic and Cvetanovic's address – what about the security agreement? We have therefore received information on what this agreement should contain. We do not agree with that - that Serbia is entering these kinds of risky arrangements, especially because of the fact that we are a country that is surrounded by countries that have been admitted to NATO, or those who are just waiting for reception, and as a state, we know that a huge number of our citizens do not want to go to NATO alliance. This assistant defence minister of yours said, Spasojevic is called – well, it's stupid that we are now exhausting ourselves by whether Serbia should or should not go to NATO, at such a difficult and burdensome moment. That's exactly what you're saying, Mr. Minister. Then you tell your assistant that she should listen to you, so if you, the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic, are about to enter NATO unspeakably, and yes, then let's talk about what our current obligations are -- who will finance it, how much will it cost us, and what is the risk to our country's security? Mr Dragan Todorovic, deputy head of our parliamentary group, mentioned seven days ago, the SOFA agreement. It is only one SOFA agreement, signed with the Ojah National Guard, which Tadic signed last year, with the presence of Condoleezza Rice, but that is not what NATO expects of us. So, they asked us and expect Serbia to send a liaison officer by the end of the year, these are their words, Mr. Sutanovac. Take us there, to Shape, to the second floor and say, you'll have a nice time here, there are Russians, across the street, and what conditions are we setting, and whether, as a state that is so disintegrated in every respect, both in economic and economic, and in national, with you in power, with such a president, we can act the same way and have the same agreement on individual partnership with NATO pact as Russia? Of course we can't. We can do it when Tomislav Nikolic wins and he replaces Boris, as the Russians did. Tell me, what do we do until then? If you know, Mr. Sutanovac, if you take the steps of General Perisic, what kind of security agreement is binding on us, you'll ask me, you'll ask every Serbian radical, you'll ask the Socialists, and I'll assume these coalition partners of yours who don't, class like this, class like that, from the DSS. Let's open up a debate in the Assembly about it. Are you ready, and that's my fourth question today for you, no offense at all, not to make such faces or to be surprised, just answer the question specifically, will you, like Dragan Sutanovac, be there in Brussels or here, call them and sign a security agreement? Will you sign an agreement on the status of the "Partnership for Peace" - NATO, which implies our active participation in the "Partnership for Peace"? What's Serbia's interest in doing that? If all NATO members and the Partnership for Peace, and you know best, Mr. Sutanovac, who are, presupposing to use our area and what are those NATO forces that, after the treaty signed by Vuk Draskovic in 2005, have deployed their own army that does not protect Serbs there, tell me, please, because they say it's a mutual agreement, 'what we do with you, you will be able to do with us', do you think we need it and that we will send our military exercises to Ohio or some other country, how should this stand in this agreement? They say -- yes, NATO forces to carry out joint military exercises. What kind of military exercise are we going to do and where with them, and with what army, when you're going to lift the garrisons and when the ground army is what it is, when the PSC is in such a difficult situation? It is said to regulate both the privileges and immunity of forces and their participation in military exercises, or stay in the territory of the "Partnership for Peace" members, or NATO, because the agreement is not yet in the official procedure, but will launch an initiative to conclude it in the coming period. Just explain to me, Mr. Sutanovac, what is Serbia's interest in doing this? Their interest is very clear and obvious, they occupied the southern Serbian province and it implies here, they can perform exercises, they can be held back, they have all rights and obligations, with full immunity. So it's not just their passage, it's their specific tasks, but really, I can guess now. If you know, then say it, and if you don't know, then every further conversation with you is pointless, because those in NATO and Shape think you know it all. They think you're okay with that. Several times we've been told -- yes, we have a problem with Kostunica, because he has a different attitude, but Boris Tadic, Ponoš, can't, of course, pronounce his name, because it's not for pride anywhere, Minister Sutanovac, absolutely accepts everything. Therefore, we would like you to give answers to these questions by the end of this debate. I have to go back to Article 14. It's nice to say that you're building a bill, your ministry, so you've probably worked it out, and it's supposed to be in the form of a law, about confirming international contracts in the field of defence and military co-operation. When you finish drawing up the drafts of these laws, because all these documents must be in the form of laws, then you must appear before the National Assembly. Otherwise, if you continue to treat Mr Nikolic as Serbian president with such will, you and Boris Tadic, then, as a state, we will become a major problem. Of course, you heard, now I'm not going to mention this one country that's been for a long time, so she stepped out of the Partnership for Peace. We, like Serbia, must have absolutely the same attitude towards NATO as Russia, especially because of equipment and because of the refurbishing of our military equipment, and, above all, because of this political aspect. We with the Russian Federation have political dialogue and they won't take away our country's territory, that's not a condition for us to enter those integrations that you stand for. I guess you should have put that in this document first. Why didn't Jeremic show up in Brussels with that in front of Jaap de Hoop Scheffer and, since there is this first political aspect, and this second, come on, these are concrete documents for military co-operation, he should have written there. And no, here, in this magazine, you put it in the antrfiles and you say -- it takes security in the Balkans to protect Resolution 1244, and you didn't put it in this document anywhere. It's nice to tell them, or to take such a political stance, explicit, because they have political organs of action, NATO, because it's not, strictly, just a military organisation, they're both politically acting and pleading on the situation, the problems, the crisis hotspots. The largest one in Europe and the Balkans is in Serbia. Finely ask them a question, clearly and loudly, as we did, that you have a problem with the fact that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija is an inalienable part of our country and that no one, at any cost, should joke about it, or simply demonstrate that you respect the Constitution of the State. When they tell you, you're better off in the NATO alliance, even in the Partnership for Peace programme, they think, Mr. Sutanovac, without Kosovo and Metohija. You, as a hero of the nation, show up on TV and say, we will no longer cooperate with you, reject any co-operation until you declare that you have no more claim on Serbian territory and on the Serbian country. You won't do it, Mr. Sutanovac, because, just like Boris Tadic, it's absolutely no matter if Serbia, and that's your vision and you don't care, because you're not going away from that atom to stay, God forbid, on the territory of Belgrade's pasture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13020	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic, and let MP Dusan Bajatovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13021	There should be something to say about this amendment. I think the amendment is good. Its essence is to get the General Staff out of the Department of Defense, to establish some form of "self-resistance" in relation to the Ministry of Defence. For what? Because the Serbian Army is the primary and strongest defence entity, according to the constitution. The constitution, first of all, treats only the military as a segment of defense, and everything else is an option that can be prescribed by law. Under the influence of these NATO allies, these free-thinking lawyers from agricultural cooperatives, some journalists, etc., someone has come to the conclusion that democratic and civilian control is possible if the General Staff is so humiliated and subdued to be an organisational unit of the Ministry of Defence. So, the Serbian Army could be the sector, the Department of Defence, because if it's a department, then we have democratic and civilian control, and it's looked at that the minister is a civilian and has some democratic legitimacy, because it's chosen by the National Assembly, and it can be if not the Field Marshal, then there's up to it, because there's the Supreme One above it. In this subjugation of the Army, and above all, it is seen through the General Staff, someone has come to this concept that there is no such functional, operational, strategic, and perhaps I was wrong – this, strategically, some other kind of independence of the Army as one orderly, disciplined, educated, trained, trained, living organism, which should defend. All other defense segments can exist, but they don't have to. They can be efficient, less or more, but what the focus is on is the Serbian Army. You see, the Serbian Army has been drawn as a special authority, the Ministry of Defence, even, is not foreseen by the Constitution. It is the authority of the state administration, and the military is a very specific, significant institution and at its head, in that part of command and leadership, the President of the Republic. The second most important instance is the General Staff, and now the General Staff is the Department of Defence sector. When it's the Department of Defense sector, then the Chief of Staff doesn't even have the status of assistant minister. They're going to talk about being elected by the president, the Ministry is asking, etc. For what? So we can have bad staff like this at the General Staff. You have one Pride, if I didn't talk, everything was told about him, and if there was a general there wouldn't be a bill like this, because there are some things that are incompatible. What does a civilian with a course completed and some other coursers have for a journalist, a professor for a historian, and we've had ballerinas before, you know, what he's doing in the defense system, to be above the general staff? It's an insult, an insult to people who are doctors of military science. Every general is a doctor of military science. Bojan Dimitrijevic to lead staff at the Ministry, he's thinking about who can work, who can't work, who can retire, who's capable, who's incapable?- I'm sorry. Why is there an evaluation in the Army? How is it possible to stop the need for a colonel who has the best grades in his work for 20 years? It's not a democracy, it's a problem. He hates English and doesn't meet the conditions. This amendment by Mr. Petar Jojic was completely undetected in today's debate, but it is very important, because both the military and professionals in the military, and the public, demonstrates that democratic and civilian control of the military is poorly understood. It is not democratic and civilian control of the Sutanovac army, Bojan Dimitrijevic, Jevtic, Filipovic, etc. The army is one system, there's no room for dilettantes in the Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13022	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13023	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in principle, I wouldn't even answer because of this amendment, because the law on the army is obviously set up so that it has too much political influence, but I must admit that the explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is somewhat annoying. In fact, when it comes to that, the responsibilities of the General Staff are, simply, benign and truly downgraded to the general staff sector. Maybe that's not bad. We have a second vision of the Army, when the Army played a far more important role in civil times, but we need to look at a possible situation where the military has other roles, let's say, when the state and society are at risk. Then it should be borne in mind that all these works of functional doctrines, the military use plan, are all approved by the minister, the government or the president, or the president's military cabinet decides, that we are now not explaining all ties. It's not pointless that, operationally, the Army's Chief of Staff, because, by the way, I don't know what that's gonna be like to run the Army. It's not military management just unit command. When we talk about the management of the military, the military is also managed by these doctrines, and by providing for the conduct of officers and soldiers, and by preserving property, and strategic definitions, etc. It is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed solution in Article 15. The bill is one of the basic mechanisms for establishing democratic and civilian control of the Serbian Army, in accordance with Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then it is explained to us, MPs, that there is an army commander in that direct sense, called Chief of Staff. So, this law does not only cover the time when it is necessary for someone to command units, on some map or in some practice, but this law solves and prepares the military, and I fear that at this point, even these existing and current officers, and I am certain that, for various, more or less, political or other reasons, are not currently engaged in the military, and the needs of the political wants to increase their reputation in possible partners tomorrow, in the Atlantic or Euro-Atlantic community, do not match. My impression is that this leaves a political space to give priority to the needs of raising respect, which I'm not sure we'll benefit from in the next few years. On the contrary, I think that since this rise in NATO's reputation, we will have damage both as a state and as a nation, and as an army. That's my opinion, you don't have to agree with him, but the role of those who are politically elected is being predicated. When does a man become wise? The moment he realizes, when he gets a sense of the measure of things. I do not dispute that at this point Serbia has neither economic nor military resources to withstand any more serious attack, let alone the situation we had in conflict with the 19 most powerful countries in the world. So, I repeat, neither economic nor military elements. We must take care of our country's political status in the international community, which, my deep impression, will not agree with me most of those present from the ruling coalition, has not been fixed as much as possible, nor has it been at that level that could have been built in the past eight years since we had the changes in Serbia. I can understand criticism at the expense of that period of sanctions and conflicts with the international community of individual political structures, but much more could be done in the eight years, at that political defence component, on that political component of Serbia's strength. We will not defend neither the economic nor the military, and I am sure neither the political component, by making out with someone's interests. We should take care of what we're asked to do, but we should make a very good choice and make it very wise to decide what we want to meet, what our choice will be, what our will will be. The critics of such an approach immediately say - so what, we saw what it looked like before, when we were in conflict with the world. I call on them to now think about something else, that neither this doctrine of full service, of full service, of full exposure to certain other people's demands, which are not ours, no matter what the centres of power, in practice has shown enough good results. I'm deliberately using, perhaps, lighter words and a milder approach, because if we open this issue to this law, we'd open it up unseriously. The issue of doctrinal accession should be opened as said in Article 7 of this law, when a strategy of the national security of the Republic of Serbia, the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Army doctrine is done. At this point, as far as I know, this is the government's jurisdiction, not even a strategic defence review has been done. He used to exist in the Federal Assembly, but the circumstances in the last year or a year and a half have changed so much that at this point, we really can't just define terrorism as a danger to our country and our people. So, among other things, urgent access should be made to these other doctrinal documents. Therefore, I ask you not to realize that our need for, allegedly, transparency, civil control and other things tomorrow will also be for this little army and soldiers, which we have left to prevent from being effective to the extent that our country requires.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13024	The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13025	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I see this Article 15 as the wish and determination of our society to deal with the military and affairs of the Ministry of Defence. In some members of the proposed law, you went a little too far, e.g. in Article 2, the last position, when you listed the entities of the defence system, so you said - the entities of the defence system are citizens, state authorities, companies, other legal persons, entrepreneurs and the armies of Serbia. Serbia's army must not be in the last place in the defence system, but it cannot be in the first. I see her here after the state organs. I wanted to draw a conclusion from your efforts, and I expect the Ministry, by its sublaws, to do so in due course, and that is the position of military-terroral authorities. Today, these authorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are called military sections. The military departments are led by military officers, mostly colonels. Today, the Serbian Army is introducing in our country records, recruiting, sending to the military, training, sharing the war schedule, self-control of the entire military obligation, both in individuals and in the economy and in society. I tried to find out which country is in the world, which rests on the postulates that we seek, this order, and I couldn't. I think the military is in charge of the defense system to train, to run defence operations in military facilities, in peace, and I believe that this law is written so that there is always peace here. I think that the Republic of Serbia has a sufficient number of quality and trained people, who are not active in Serbia's military service, to do well whatever is necessary in this part of the defence system, and for the account of the defence ministry. In my opinion, these bodies need to be changed by name and given to the civilian structures of the Ministry of Defense for full management, and from all this, as the law is written, I expect it to happen. Today, military sections on the territory of the Republic of Serbia were formed in major municipalities and cities of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what the criterion is, but there's probably a limit, or a proper number of recruits on the territory of that municipality or the city, so that the military department can liven up. I understand that, because in order to be fully employed by the military department, you need to have a job. I have a question – what about local self-governments that don't have enough recruits on their territory, but they have an active Serbian Army garrison on the territory of their municipality or their city? In such municipalities, there is a lot of work in the area of defence, which is not just about recruiting. I don't know all of them, but I'm guessing that the territory of that municipality should be filled mainly with the people of the war units, because it's normal for people to be as close as possible, that they can respond to the mobilization as possible, so that they can meet their obligations. I think it's on the territory of the municipality where there's a unit that's mobilized that needs to regulate the material obligations, both movable and immovable. It's kind of natural to supply an army in the event of mobilization from the territory of the municipality on which that unit is located. It sounds illogical to bring bread from Belgrade to Backo Topol. I expect to be taken from some economic operator from the municipality where the unit is mobilized, supplied from there. Task force. Every single one of us that's being mobilized must be supplied with weapons and ammunition. If Kragujevac came from Backo Topol somewhere empty, it would probably take a while. The most natural thing is that from Backa Topola territory people go to these work units and help to do it as quickly as possible. I know that there is one of the best warehouses in Serbia's Army and that the ammunition and weapons of other garrisons are in that warehouse and I know that for the purposes of garrison in Somboro, or military unit, the people of Backa Topola are meant to be in the task force, which is normal, when that ammunition is removed from that warehouse. Registration on the territory of these municipalities, as far as mobilization and all other data is concerned, must be, minors, perfect, brought to perfection, and that is impossible to do from a distance of 50 km. It is natural that the structures of that municipality can do the best. I remember the time, if you were changing the address, you should have gone to the Department of Defense first, to regulate it, and then the M.O.P. puts it in your I.D. card to change your address. That's not the case today. If you want to change your address in Backo Topoli, you have to go to Saturday, report it to the military department, and nobody's pushing anyone, but it's left to the MUP who doesn't do his job. When it takes these data to be removed, they're not good, they're not true. I don't remember, and I'm almost 50 years old, that the relationship between the population and the military has ever been on a weaker level. I'll show you on the case of my community. Vojvodina, three years in a row, has a slightly larger project, and I was glad to see the president of the National Assembly the other day at the end of the project, it's a group of tolerances, which were launched by the Vojvodina to see young people and children, meet, socialize, and the occasion is sports competition. In nine municipalities of cities, this is being celebrated, so that the finale will be in Subotica. To accommodate all these children, we used the facilities of the Serbian Army earlier. This year, only Backo Topola paid more than 60,000 dinars for accommodations from 22am to 8am. When I wanted to talk to someone about it, they referred me to the Serbian Army's operational forces in Kragujevac, and Backo Topola falls under their jurisdiction. I've tried to talk, but they're breaking the law - the letter of the law, we stick to it. We in local self-government get the law out, never in Backo Topoli Army had the need to pay water, sewerage, utility fees. It was all normal, because it was our army. Then we, nicely, sewed up a pen, so we took it all in a nice way and said we had to pay for it, not for the sake of those soldiers and officers in Backo Topoli, but, in general, because of this attitude towards citizens and projects supported by state authorities and local self-government. It used to be normal in Backo Topoli, if an officer or a junior officer came in today, to try to solve his housing problem in local self-government. We used to try in Backo Topoli to help if the officers, whether today, the officers, were hired by their spouses. We've helped in many ways, and today it's our will, but when we get to the gates of our garrison, then the law comes out and says, "people, we do everything by law." It's all right, Mr. Minister, but Back Topola, I'm afraid, and many other Back Topolas are beginning to experience these garrisons, God forbid, like a foreign body. So they don't live together anymore, which is not good. I've been dating since I was a kid, just like all my generation, going to that barracks, getting to know him very well, but today at that age, and, at all, young people don't go, they don't need to go to that garrison. I want to finally pass on to you something that I think is inadmissible. On Saturday, I was in the Russian Cross, and I was invited by the citizens of that place. In the middle of the Russian Cross, someone two or three days before that wrote a graphite which, surely, in the Russian Christur is not a place, and by the way, don't lie down, 80 locals of the Russian Christur have been invited to, probably, redistribute their... They were invited to be given a new schedule, surely in the war units. I can pass on to you the great anxiety of these people. It wasn't my place to meet them. I assumed what it was about, so I was telling you all of this, so to calm them down, knowing that only from the Russian Christur, in 2007, close to 100 of our citizens had gone, moved out, which was in Canada, which was elsewhere. I've heard from people that they've prepared passports for women, for children, and some money, and they're running away. So, nothing else should have been done by the Ministry, or by who, but by the Russian letter, which reads every Russian in writing, written what was meant to be done, to let people know. It's not done, so it causes a lot of bad in the field, and it's not hard to do. If, through the means of information, or if one of the people from the Ministry, the Army, had gone to that Russian Cross, or some other places, to say - that's what we're going to do, certainly people wouldn't think that way and they wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13026	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MP Momir Markovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13027	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the urgency of passing these laws, and the law of the military, and the law of defense, is conditioned by, at least, several conditions. The first is to pass laws as soon as possible and obtain a condition under the Constitutional Law to discuss elections, because the final solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija is at the threshold, and elections should be held before the final status settlement, because after that, the "democratic" coalition candidate has nothing to look for in those elections. So, try to speed up everything again and fool the citizens of Serbia. Another condition why these laws urgently need to be passed is that it appears from the NATO Alliance that our forces will have to, or will need to be involved in peace operations like Operation "Merciful Angel" over Serbia, as it is in Iraq, etc. In this regard, for example, the MP Ratkovic said for a little while – well, there is nothing strange about it, so our forces have participated in operations so far. Yes, Mr. Ratkovic, and Marko Kraljević participated in peace operations, the Bajazits, Romania, and then Vlaska, and he died there, but you forgot to tell the citizens of Serbia that the Serbian countries were then important countries. Then say that we are an important country, that we are under patrol, that we are occupied, so that in that sense we must send forces to defend the interests of the United States, several thousand or tens of thousands of kilometers from Serbia's territory. I'd like to ask the Minister a few questions before I move on to the amendment. I remind the MPs that, speaking of flight control, I have mentioned several times that the military flight control component has been completely excluded from the A.D. flight control agency otherwise, to remind the citizens of Serbia, today the third time appointed director of Flight Control, that Nikola Stankov, past common sense. At the very least, that's the director who pays a million and six thousand dollars, not to mention all the crimes that were committed in that flight control. To remind only the minister that Flight Control is no longer able to control military planes, so I ask him, who is flying over our heads, over our skies, without the citizens of Serbia knowing it? Because in time there was a pepper that was activated and said when it was a military plane and when it was a civilian. Civil aircraft have these peppers and the possibility of control and guidance, military planes do not, and there is no obligation for anyone to inform Serbian citizens in the end. To remind the minister that several dozen high-ranking officers have retired by force of opportunity, and they are not accounted for by the benefits and are severely damaged there. Some of them came to us, brought huge documentation. If you don't have the paperwork, I'm ready to offer it to you. Let me also remind you that Minister Davinic kidnapped eight of the colonels and colonels in Bezanski's hair, when he was defence minister, and shared them with his security, "cobras", that today there are judicial disputes, that these people are on the street, without apartments, with very high acts, that the issue has not been resolved. Let me remind you that the reservers are still on strike because they didn't get the logs, and that some of them who work in court, and they have yellow membership cards, they've charged the logs, and their wives have paid for the fear they've suffered. Let's get back to article 17 and the amendment I've submitted. You know, there's a lot of interest, there's a lot of demands that, at the very end of the line, not to organisational groups, but to allow individuals to control the Army. In Article 16, for example, the Ministry of Defence carries out inspection tasks related to law enforcement in the area and of importance for defence, rules adopted under these laws, as well as plans and measures of state authorities and organisations and the Serbian Army, which apply, etc. In Article 17, in carrying out inspection tasks under Article 16 of this Act, inspectors and persons authorised for inspection tasks shall have the right to: ''1 they shall make an insight into documents relating to the preparation of defence forces for defence''. It should be expected that these documents have a stamp "super-confident", "war secret", etc. In this regard, let me remind you that those who have been flying in the Ministry of Defence since 2000, mostly speaking English, have long taken these documents, taken, translated, etc. My amendment applies only to four points in this Article 17. Point 4) says - inspectors can order the removal of identified shortcomings in defence plans. They can propose to the Ministry, Minister, so the Ministry can order. Not someone who's given the inspector's book and who's going to roll around, who's going to go around the little cash register that we've got, to order, can propose to the ministry, so the Ministry can order a suspension. Article 6 provides for commands, Article 7 requires suspension of operations, etc. Either this is misspelled, or it's meant to be this much authority in the hands of an individual. Thank you, because others will talk about my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13028	Thank you. There is a word for this amendment, MP Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is evident that the DOS's desire to put under its control and administration the Yugoslav Army, then Serbia, in fear that sometimes someone might not have thought to question whether to go to DOS, and they had some information about whether the military had a dilemma on whether to go against DOS on October 5th or not. The desire, the goal they have achieved since Boris Tadic became defence minister, even today, when his party comrades continue to do so, is clear to every member of the Serbian Army, and should be clear to the MPs. Everything can be regulated by law, most are gathered in the National Assembly, most are passed by law, the law is applied, and what will come out well for Serbia, that only God knows. So we either need an army, or we don't need an army. If we need her, don't underestimate her or humiliate her, if we don't need her, stop her. I believe the humiliation of the Army is a provision that the General Staff is part of the Ministry of Defense. Is the General Staff part of the Serbian Army then? Is the Chief of Staff, at the same time, a member of the Army and a member of the Department of Defense and is it possible for one man to be in two bodies systematized by law? Is it possible for the Ministry of Defence to even check the functional capabilities of the military and say – based on the approval of the President of the Republic? So the Ministry will lead the defense. It will only require approval from the President of the Republic. Then why is he commander-in-chief? Then why is he in command of the Serbian Army? I guess he's gonna order the Ministry to do something. What is the defence ministry's right to verify the operational and functional capacity of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army? How many generals at the Department of Defense are able to verify that? If they're generals, what kind of civilian control is the military, and if they're not generals, how come they have the expertise to check their functional ability, operational ability? Will it be employed by the Ministry of Defence that you are studying in an accelerated system of education in Austria, Brussels and elsewhere, by the criteria that they must know English, which is mentioned very often here? What do they need English for in the Serbian Army? Whom do they command, my son to command in English, or anyone else's, that he understands them and that he obeys the commands in the language he hates, even from movies, war, American, let alone NATO interventions that were here in Serbia? This all started when Goran Vesic started kicking generals around the Ministry of Defence. Goran Vesic, where is Goran Vesic now? He enjoys his 40 apartments. It was up to him to get the money the military unit won't get. You military took all the money, now everything's in the Department of Defense, you decide when the bill will be paid. That's why corruption has now been poured into the Department of Defense. The units are waiting, they're putting up with the need, so they're waiting for when it's gonna be. Neither last nor last year the funds you had at your disposal were spent. Have the military units been denied for that? Yes, of course they are. I hear you've entered the business of four planes, four MiG fighter planes. It's not at the time when you were elected minister, the job started earlier. So what if it started early? Do you have one military expert who will tell you that we need four planes that can't take off? What is our plane, if at least you attended the 1999 bombing, capable of taking off and fighting if NATO attacks us? None. We've lost every plane that took off, we've only saved the ones we've been hiding. I heard you on one show when you said that that remont would be worth more than the General Staff building and the whole block of buildings around it. I'm telling you, the Army and the Department of Defense destroyed our anti-aircraft defense, destroyed the missiles. They couldn't lift their targets at more than six thousand feet, but, you know, when a plane flies over six thousand feet, it can't hit exactly what it's up to and it's seen in aggression. The Americans gave us four million dollars, I don't know how many, so here's the so-called. Defence Ministry experts will tell you exactly how much money the Americans gave you to destroy all of our anti-aircraft missiles, under the firm not to fall into the hands of terrorists, which is the greatest humiliation for Serbia, so that Serbia can have weapons that would fall into the hands of terrorists. So Serbia is not a sovereign country. The anti-aircraft defense has been abolished, the missiles have been abolished as a family of the Army. I know that for sure. So we are no longer ready to defend ourselves from the earth, we can never be technologically prepared to defend ourselves from the air. That should be made clear, and we'll invest money in a remont plane and buy new planes. They tell me, but it's the job we give the Russians. You deal with the Russians some other business, let them build us factories, don't let them remount our planes, get tractors to weaponize our land, we'll pay for everything they do, we just don't want to invest in a business that's in vain. Our Shiplars can't attack the planes, and I heard from the government's representative that we're going to war, because they probably think we're going to fight the Shiptar. I'm telling you now - prepare to work the Army for that kind of war. Don't buy planes, it's not a means, you need one 400 fighters, well equipped, and you will curb any action by Albanians in Kosovo against Serbs. It won't be a war at all. You participate in drafting plans for defence, in drawing up plans of the Republic of Serbia, then you control your people who have worked these plans, then you order your people to clear the gaps. In Article 17, it's an 11-page job for a huge machine at the Department of Defense. We'll have a huge machine at the Department of Defense. It would have to be the apparatus of extremely professional people, people who treat the Army not underestimating, humiliating, as gods of the Army, which is the manner of the Ministry of Defense, but as people on a joint task. I never agreed that the defence minister could not be the former prime minister. Never. That he could be, say, Mr. Sutanovac, and he can't be an ex-general. As much as you learn, Mr. Sutanovac, we don't need a minister of defense who will come to the Ministry and study the job, we need a secretary of defense who, when he sits down, knows exactly what he needs to do, what the Army is going to do, exactly what an army officer is going to have to do with, and what work he's doing. The way the Democratic Party commands Serbia's military is humiliating for Serbia's Army, and whoever humiliates the military humiliated the entire people. That extraordinary unity between the Army and the people of 1999, returned to morale, lost in 1992 and 1993, co-operation at the highest possible level, you've shoved clips into wheels and you've always watched, when someone gets killed, you show up as vultures and, God forbid, if the Army gives him a death medal, there you are, telling some poor father or grandfather that he rejects it in front of the cameras and says he doesn't know why his son or grandson was killed, and now you've taken over the defense. I'm interested. How would you behave now? You were there, say, and in front of the TV building, to say that it was the director of television that was doing TV just when she was bombed. I wonder if she'd work now that you're in power or you'd say we're closing TV, let CNN tell us that it's going to be Operation America and NATO versus Serbia? Who would then inform us to Jamie Shay; he lied to even NATO, not just the citizens of Serbia. Whoever shuts down his media in the war lost the war. So, I have a thousand questions for you, I'm sorry, I've overstepped my time, but I'm getting ready for my commanding job, so I'm distracting you right now. Now I'm distracting you, Mr. Sutanovac, prepare to cooperate, even if it's under this law. I don't watch the name of the man I'm supposed to work with, just see if he knows anything or doesn't know whether he's a patriot or not, whether he's being rude or not, whether he's working with him or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13030	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13031	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 225 of position 1 and Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, SRS MPs began to receive messages from educational workers in Serbia that the Ministry of Education had begun to receive forms in which they should enter their data, on the basis of which they would be denied a percentage of their earnings, due to the strike of educational workers, who strike precisely because they are unhappy with profits. Why did I even call to let the public know about it? Because it is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to intimidate all dissatisfied in Serbia in this way, and in Serbia today, many are dissatisfied with their status, above all, with profits, pensions, and you are now scaring them by denying the right to earning those who strike, dissatisfied with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This, I guess, should be a warning to everyone not to think of rebelling against the government, because if they object in any way, the government will hit them in the pocket. When we had one or two ministers here who answered parliamentary questions, one of the ministers here told an incredible lie. He said the teacher's salary was 35,000 dinars. That's not true, it's the teacher's salary, and the teacher's salary is 29,000 dinars. These data were subsequently published in the media, and the minister lied from this place, and all Serbian citizens, I guess, to create an impression and to say that Serbian citizens would say that educational workers, court workers, health workers, etc. They shouldn't strike. Since every time educational workers strike, they make up for all the lost time, because they have to have a certain fund of lessons, because a certain programme must be respected, and educational workers will make up for that lost time, students will go to school on Saturdays, or Saturdays, now ask the minister – will they, when they make up for that time, return the money they will now receive from them based on the forms they sent them? For, my God, the election campaign for the President of the Republic is approaching, so it is not nice to see that many are dissatisfied in Serbia, so the strike in the judiciary has come, and now, by denying profit, the strike in education, then the strike in health, and the strike of scientific workers. I guess it's a unique case in the world that even scientific workers have to strike because the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't take care of it. You are trying to hide what you are, because you are afraid that in the next elections, whatever you do, all those you are taking wages and who do not allow to strike, whom you threaten, will vote for Tomislav Nikolic and that Tomislav Nikolic will be the president of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13032	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Perjanicic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Dejan Perjanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13033	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21, to add a new position 2, which reads: "In the case referred to in point 8 of Article 1, the Ministry of Defence is required to issue an air space recording authorisation within three days of the date of submission." Article 21 reads: "Common civil-military air traffic management system for the purposes of defence coverage", and there are some 17 members, and point 8) reads - approval and control of activities on airspace recording. I will try you, as colleagues and colleagues, as well as members of the Ministry, and also the Minister himself, to explain to you the purpose and justification of submitting this amendment. As most of you probably know, air recording is possible in a very short period of time, most often from 15 November to 15 March of the following year. The air recording takes place when it allows for the absence of vegetation, i.e. until the trees and the greens were peeled. In this time period, there are very few days when it is possible to carry out shooting flights, because to carry out one flight for photogravimetric imaging from the air it takes a lack of turbulence, to make it a very clear day, that there is no rainfall. Since this takes place in 12, 1st, 2nd and 3rd months, you will admit that there are very few such days. I did not want to question the justification of this attitude 8 with this amendment, although there was probably a need for such a thing. And the moment I'm talking about this, there are satellite shoots every day, for which our ministry can neither give permission to record. Given that we have a number of big, capital projects ahead of us, you'll agree with me that, due to the accelerated process, the most purposeful way to do this is to take a shot out of the air of huge routes, not to do something I would call "walk geodesy". It is normal, most meaningful and justifiable that such shootings are performed from the airspace. What surprised me, first, was that the government, in general, refused this amendment, and then I was amazed by the government's explanation. With this amendment, I wanted to contribute something, and the lawyers know it well, which is called giving silent consent due to the silence of the administration. In that way, as I stated in my explanation, I did not challenge Article 102, which protects the secrecy of the data at all. So, this amendment was supposed to get consent within three days, due to a short time-limit for recording, and it is understood that the footage is being reviewed by the Department of Defense and that all military facilities and facilities that are under the rule of state secrets are being deleted from those recordings. I once again wanted to take the opportunity to warn Mr. Minister of the extremely difficult situation at VGI, the Military-Geodetic Institute. As a surveyor and someone who deals with construction, I am extremely concerned that we will be in a position in 2012 or 2013 in the state of Serbia there will be no equipped card-making institution. My humble opinion is that VGI is not in the nokdown, but in the technical knockout, although it has an extremely large and long tradition of making cards. Believe me, there is no country in Europe that doesn't have a state-run card-making institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13034	The word is by MP Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13035	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to take a moment's time off the subject, to direct your attention to another problem. It's about the next one. Yesterday, UNMIK chief Joachim Riker, at a press conference held in Pristina, unveiled UNMIK plans related to the situation in municipalities where Serbs are in the majority, following elections held on November 17th in Kosovo and Metohija, which were called and implemented by temporary Kosovo institutions. Under the plan, the municipalities of Leposavic, Zvecan, Zubin Potok, Novo Brdo and Strpce are expected to extend the term of office to the presidents of municipalities and committees elected in the elections, over a period of six months. When it comes to these three municipalities located in the north of Cosmeta, then this decision cannot cause any major damage, because there are no Albanians in these municipalities, but when it comes to the municipalities of Strpce and Novo Brdo municipalities, then there are major problems, because these municipalities also live Albanians who, of course, participated in the elections. In Novo Brdo municipality, where the population ratio is 60 to 40% in favour of Serbs, a man from Thaci's party comes to the head of the municipality. In the municipality of Strpce, an Albanian from Thaci's party comes to the post of deputy president. To be more precise, the mandate will be extended to the Serbian Nationality's committees, and, according to results, the Albanian Nationality's committees will be replaced. What is the background of such a decision is still unknown, but what is known is that UNMIK is deeply concerned that Serbs are eventually participating in the interim Kosovo institutions and giving them a multiethnic character. There's one logical question here. What, in fact, was the basic purpose of the Serb boycott, which the government called on us to do, if the highly cooperative Serbs, as they call them, will continue to be part of one, for the state of Serbia, of an unrecognized system? What's the way out of this crisis? The state of Serbia must call the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija as soon as possible. If not before March, for when local elections are planned in the whole Republic, then there is another solution, which is the formation of temporary municipal councils.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13036	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MP Miletic Mihajlovic suggested adding a new member of 37a after article 37a. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Miletic Mihajlovic has the word, and then the People's MP Srdjan Sajn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SPS reads: "Article 37a. – in peacetime conditions, members of the Serbian Army, under the approval of the General Staff, may, in the course of their training, be engaged in the realisation of the affairs and programmes of public enterprises and institutions, local self-government and other economic entities under the conditions agreed by both parties." So, here it is that the units, or members of the Serbian Army, could, in the framework of their regular training in peacetime conditions, participate in certain businesses, perform certain tasks that will be useful, on the one hand, for our social community, local self-government, businesses or other entities within our country, and, on the other hand, the military would benefit from that. We have such examples in the past that former members of the JNA, the Yugoslav Army, were engaged in such affairs. For example, engineering units that worked on modernising roads or training some routes, or on building bridges etc. Of course, there are other professions that are interesting and where the Army could be involved in these kinds of affairs. The Serbian government's explanation said the amendment was rejected for the reason that Serbia's Army's jurisdiction was established by Article 139. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 139. Serbia's constitution says, "Serbian Army defends the country against the armed threat to the outside and executes other missions and tasks, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and principles of international law that regulate the use of force." So, from this provision of the Constitution, which speaks of the military's engagement in the event of war, I do not see that the use of units or armies of Serbia in peacetime conditions is prohibited in the manner proposed by this amendment. Finally, one more question can be asked. We have, in the present conditions, quite a number of military officials, or soldiers, who, due to the objection of conscience, are not serving the Army under arms, but have been deployed in some institutions, state or some humanitarian organisations, etc., and that is probably based on some regulation, some contractual relationship of any kind. The question arises, how does the Constitution allow and does not allow, as I said, what would be really useful for our country, what would be useful for the Army of Serbia? The point of this amendment is that under regular training, in actual conditions, the Army is trained in the best possible way, because when war comes and when this army is used in war operations, then it's a real situation, it's no longer an imaginary situation. So it really makes sense this way of hiring the military, because it's multiple and mutually beneficial. Through this kind of cooperation of the military with the subjects of our community, we would have what is really necessary, because it would prove to be a people's army, that it is an army that belongs not only to the state as a single system, as a single apparatus, but belongs to the community, belongs to that people. After all, members of that army come from the people, and then it is testified, one consummation and one belong to one another. For these reasons and with such logic, the SPS proposes such an amendment, because it would be multiple useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13038	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, then the Messenger of the people, Vidoje Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13039	I'm reporting for an officer. 225 and 226. I apologize to all the MPs, especially the President of the Assembly, which is how I must communicate with the Minister of Culture. Simply, for three or four months, he has chosen to communicate with me through parliamentary questions and answers. I apologize to all of you, especially the DS representatives, but don't blame me. I asked to talk to him, but this is how he chose. It's about the next one. I received an answer to the parliamentary question, where the Minister of Culture, among other things, said he proposed to the municipality of Indji and the Regional Secretariat of Culture to form a Roma theatre. It further says that the ministry's proposal to pay employees and material costs is borne by the municipalities of Indji and the Regional Secretariat for Education and Culture, and programme costs would be borne by the Ministry of Culture. I think this is unsustainable for the next reason. We did not propose that neither the municipal theatre nor the landscape theatre be formed, but we suggested that the Roma theatre of Serbia be formed, therefore, an institution of culture of republican importance. I don't think it's a sustainable situation for the Indjia municipality to bear such a large part of the cost. I must tell you that the Roma do not live, like the Hungarians, mostly in Vojvodina. Roma are equally deployed across Serbia's territory. Believe me, if it is financed in this way, we will not be able to convince the municipal and regional authorities that this theatre troupe goes to Roma in Kosovo, to give them a theatre performance there, to go, say, to Bujanovac, if there is a children's show, to tell the children in Bujanovac. In this way, we form a province institution, a municipal institution, and we don't get what we want, which is to meet the needs of 500,000 citizens of this country, members of the Roma national minority. By the way, to say that it will certainly be followed by citizens of other national communities, this creation. I would once again refer to the question of the Minister of Culture - whether other institutions and theatres of republican importance are financed from municipal and regional budgets or not? If other institutions are financed in such a way, I want to be informed of how much they are in percentages, so that we apply those rules to the Roma theatre of Serbia, not to the Roma theatre of Indjia or the Roma theatre of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13040	The MP, meanwhile, said he was reporting to the Rules of Procedure, it's okay. The People's MP Vidoje Jovanovic, on the amendment, has the word. For the SPS there are seven minutes left, and then there is a word from MP Sasa Valjarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13041	President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the amendment submitted by Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic – that a new member of 37a is being added behind article 37a. I fully support this amendment, and I see that the Government has not decidently disputed the possibility of respecting this amendment, so I call on the Minister, if he is able to accept it. The objective of this amendment, which was submitted by the SPS, is to deepen co-operation between the military and civil structures, i.e. municipalities and citizens, because it is, in principle, a people's army. I don't want to repeat the amendment proposed by Miletic, it's Article 37a. The basic meaning of the amendment is this greater co-operation with the military, and above all, in the execution of certain jobs, contract operations in municipalities, and this has been done before by the Yugoslav Army, the Serbian Army, when it comes to the engagement of engineering units. We know of many military activities, especially in those rural areas, where it's very difficult to reach populated places. We've had the engagement of engineering units and a great contribution to the military's construction of these roads. It seems to me that perhaps the purpose of rejecting this amendment by the government is to reduce the engagement of the military, when it comes to civil structures. The government's explanation says that the existing law does not prevent military engagement for wider social interests. I see that in Article 48 of the Law, this possibility is given. But if the possibility is already given and the Government does not dispute it, neither is the government to accept this amendment, or Article 37a. I would like to point out that the organisation and formation of the army is brought by the minister, on the proposal of the Chief of Staff and by some established principles and assessment of the President of the Republic. Previously on General Staff, we had engineering management, we had independent engineering units and more activity of these engineering units. Now, I think that in the new organization and formation we have, say, in Obrenovac such a unit, in Šapec. We no longer have such independent units. We have them, probably, as a lower component within the units, which doesn't mean we have engineering units and that possibility of hiring them. That is why, Minister, in this regard, I call you, given that it is not a problem and that the argument of the Government is not the opposite, but itself says that the law does not prevent it, that you accept this Article of Mr Miletic, because the intention of the promoter, the SPS, its MP and me who supports this amendment – that this co-operation continues to deepen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13042	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13043	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment of my colleague, Miletic Mihajlovic. Given that Article 37a is proposed to be added in this amendment, I will support some of the events that took place last year in two districts in Serbia, in Podunavska and Branicevski, these are major disasters. At that time, members of Serbia's military day and night defended the floods of cities that were threatened, when the flood of the town of Smederev could occur and the spilling of the Danube in Velika Gradište and Golubac. The text of this amendment shows that the engagement of engineering units and, in general, Serbia's armies would be useful in situations where there are no such elemental disasters or, normally, in wartime conditions, when they can be used to build infrastructure. So, ten years ago, when the need arose, the army's engineering unit, then Serbia-Montenegro, built a bridge in the village of Vrdarac. Thanks to the good co-operation of local self-government in the municipality of Pogorec and the Serbian Army, as well as Commander Vinko Markovski, there is a realisation of these relations between the Serbian Army and local self-government, when it is most necessary to include all these units. In order for the Army to be well trained and prepared and for, God forbid, a war condition, it is known that the engineering units are very important, especially when there is a destruction of the infrastructure, which is roads, bridges. When there can be no transfer of certain formations and units of the Serbian Army, then there are engineering units, which should be used for Ponton bridges and other engineering tools to prepare the passage of certain units that have been disabled. We believe that this amendment should be accepted and included in this law on defence given by the Government. I would now return, Mr. Minister, to the question, directly, for you. I listened to your presentation two days ago when you explained this bill. You said that a complete team of professional staff at the General Staff participated in the draft of the law. However, we heard today, contrary to your presentation, the presentation of colleagues from the SRS who had some information that in the meantime, a lot of professional and highly educated people, generals and doctors of science, were retired, because the rank of general is the rank of a doctor of science. One of these generals is our vice president and member of the SRS, Mr Delic. He retired before you, but I want to say that now this rank of generals and such high-quality people who, schooling themselves, and achieved certain results in their career, have retired, and, in the meantime, important military functions are being visited by persons who may not have had enough experience in such an important job, nor have they had experience in the defence ministry itself. You said he was on the site with this proposal from the government, that a lot of website users gave an opinion on what the proposal was. You haven't specifically told us what all the remarks or praises were. Everything was commendable? I don't think so, Mr. Minister, since you could hear today, in the afternoon debate, a lot of criticism about this law. I'd like to ask you a specific question. Given that in your statements, as well as in Mr Tadic's statements, the current president of Serbia, you are constantly calling for us to join the NATO Alliance, and since there is no legal standoff in this, nor is there any decision of the highest legislative body, which is this assembly, I do not know who gives you the right to declare it or to give an opinion, perhaps a political party? Mr Tadic, who is more of a DS member than the president of all Serbian citizens, and you, as army minister, should perform on behalf of all citizens of Serbia and all MPs. I don't know who gives you the right to plead in that context. One more thing about the material situation itself, since we have good co-operation with the Serbian Army officers. In a conversation with them, even in my family, I have a relative, though, retired general, about how they used to live and what opportunities they had to do with their jobs without their family being provided, in the sense that they are employed by family members, it can be learned that now, absolutely, they cannot survive with the salary they have. First, the housing issue was not resolved. We have many officers who live, especially these lower officers, in barracks, and we know that they travel, for example, from a town where their family lives, 200, 300 kilometers, live in a barracks and are separated from their family. They have no compensation for that separate life, or she's very small. They just can't survive in these conditions. We now expect to raise the morale of the military in such an apathy, when the state is in danger, when we are threatened with the declaration of an independent Kosovo and a Metohija. You need to be more committed and involved, to deal with what this congregation has called you, though, most of you who are making this congregation, and not to carry out blindly what you probably have as an obligation to those who have brought you into power. I can tell you, and this will be seen in these elections, when there is a choice for the president of Serbia and when Mr Tomislav Nikolic is elected president of Serbia, why what I have been saying so far is the voice of the people. Because citizens are not about going to the NATO Alliance and joining those who bombed us in 1999, without a Security Council decision and everything else. You blindly only listen to what you get as a NATO warrant.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13044	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) This is where we stop and we take a break. Before we take a break, I'd like to inform you that today, and in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure, extend your hours and after 18 hours, and I hope that extension won't be very long. Thank you very much. Bon appétit. I'll see you at 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13045	Dear ladies and gentlemen, let me read a note. Confirmation of the mandate to the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. You have also received a report from the Administrative Board, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal from the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Momcilo Spasic, elected from the Electoral List G17 Plus - Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Momcilo Spasic. Congratulations on the MP's choice and ask him to enter the O.R. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 48 regulates the right and obligation of citizens to participate in the defence of the country. However, as you are, whatever you catch, you must destroy it. For example, in Article 48, which applies to this amendment, it writes - to a military official who, for religious, moral or other legitimate reasons, wants his obligation to replace himself with a civil service, will be allowed by a special law. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you from the ruling majority, who will vote for this law, to remain such a member of 48th, what is it now, I ask – what is "moral or some other justified reason"? I wonder if one of you can answer me, is defending the country a moral or immoral thing? Is it moral to defend your country or not? According to you, it doesn't seem so, because as long as NATO's aggression against the Republic of Serbia lasted, you blamed the government here for attacking NATO, as if we attacked them, and immorally, what it was doing was, exactly, NATO. It is also immoral that you were then working at the head with former DS President Zoran Djindjic. That's immoral. The defence of the country is one moral act and every citizen's obligation. However, this service of civil military time, in any case, can be considered a continuation of one policy that you started in the 1990s, which is that the Serbian people lose consciousness that exists, to give up their cultures, their traditions and the values that this culture of itradition requires. That's why you write such nonsense in the law. Here, and Mr. Secretary has arrived. Repeat the Minister's question. Is it immoral to defend the country, Mr. Minister, in any case, and you are close to Vojislav Kostunica, perhaps not informed, or is it immoral to attack other countries for your own purposes? Since this part that says "moral or otherwise" I can doubt, which you already proved in 2003, that you may not be preparing our army for something immoral, that you are not preparing it, perhaps for Afghanistan, that you are not preparing it for Iraq, that you are not preparing it for Iran, because there are rumored to be military interventions in Iran. That's immoral, Mr. Minister. It's immoral, and it's even more immoral to work on such alleged, peace missions as the Humanitarian Angel, so we felt what a humanitarian mission it was, to participate in such humanitarian missions on the side of the one who staged a multi-day bombing, destruction of economic and human resources, etc. When it comes to military-civil service, Mr. Minister, you once, in a fight with Mr. Aligrudic, mentioned some hoodlums. Is that what soldiers are supposed to do? To ask a simple question, what is this civil service of the military? In a state body? What are they, entertainment sites? Will soldiers serve the military by changing diapers to babies? I agree, it's a humanitarian job, of course, but it's not a soldier's job and it can't be replaced by military service, not at all. The purpose of all you do is to bring down the reputation of the army in the people. When you look at what's been going on since 2000, and you're directly responsible, especially DS, because it's already given twice by the Secretary of Defense, it's been said very little, the question of why they've been going on in our barracks things that have been happening, from suicides of soldiers, to, supposedly, murder, suicide, to who killed two guards on Topcider, to explosions in military warehouses, etc. Mr. Minister, there are good reasons why this happened. The first thing you did before civil service was reduce your military duty from one year to nine months, to six months, on your minister's proposal. The fact is that by reducing the military deadline is lost in the quality of training, and yet there are certain objects that must be kept, even in peace, so you got people unprepared, underdressed, mentally not stabilised enough. Because every trip to the military is causing certain mental and other problems in the face that go to military service; it has to take at least 60 days and more to get used to it, normalizes, that it can function normally. You've been giving these guys military ammunition to guard military facilities. Of course it had to come to this sort of thing. That's why it happened. What's the point? The goal is to undermine the people's trust in the military, because in the tradition of the Serb people it is an army. The Serbian people love their army, the Serbian people are proud of their military and have reason, because the Serbian army has always been a liberating army and its existence has been exclusively aimed at the survival of the Serbian state and the Serbian people. What's the point of losing that, losing trust in state institutions, because there's nothing scarier, Mr. Minister, than what's happening now, that most citizens, and here I have to agree with them, says that we don't have an army anymore, and citizens through the military view the state the most as an institution. If there's no army, there's no state. If there's no state, let us be guarded by others, let some other armies here carry out their occupation, come on, if we can't save ourselves, let's watch whom we're going to bow to. It's a tactics and doctrine that this government has been conducting for years. Whether the government of Zoran Zivkovic, Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica, the first or the second, all do the same, more or less covered up, but the exact same. So, as far as civil service is concerned, that shouldn't exist, Mr. Minister. If someone, for their religious reasons, doesn't want to serve the Army with weapons, let him do it in the barracks. He needs a cook's army, he needs to take care of it, clean the rooms, let him do it, but don't let people abuse it any other way, there's damage to those who accept to serve the Army properly. You have influenced, by your conduct and loss of trust in the military, that there are more and more civilians who want to serve the Army, because parents fear that those like you trust their children. And that's a fact. Em doesn't have any training, you arm them. Understandably, many resort to the civil service of the military term. You are slowly killing the tradition and spirit of Serbian culture. As I was saying, in my day, Mr. Minister, you're a little older than me, it was an honor to serve the army, literally it was a shame if someone didn't pass the recruiting. It was like that until seven or eight years ago. Ask yourself a question - why isn't it like that now? I agree that the Army should be professionalized, you say it's expensive. Then maintain at least some normal level of military functioning, so that it can adequately respond to the current political situation in the environment. If you tell me it's too expensive, I ask a question, Mr. Minister - is there anything more expensive than freedom? If you don't know how much freedom is expensive, you'll find out when you lose power, then Serbian radicals come and allows the judicial and other authorities to act in accordance with the law. Then many ministers from this and those previous governments, as of October 5th, will come to feel what the word "freedom" means.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13047	I thank Veroljub Arsic. On the subject of the amendment, MP Dragan Todorovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Igor Becic's amendment should be accepted, because, indeed, there are problems here when the Ministry, or the Government, tried to explain why this amendment should not be accepted. Paragraph 3 says - to a military official who, for religious, moral or other justified reasons, wants a military obligation to replace himself with civil service, will be allowed to serve in civil service, under conditions and in a manner prescribed by a special law. I think the only reason to respect it would be a religious reason and there wouldn't be any dilemma. If you are already asking a question of moral reasons, it should really be taxing to state reasons why such a serious matter should be respected, that is, to give the recruit the right to serve the civilian deadline. You really need to explain, first of all, to the MPs, and to the citizens of Serbia, that they know, possibly those who intend not to serve the military deadline, to say - I will not, for moral reasons, so state what moral reasons these are. Also, the third just cause - conscience. I asked around to make sure what it might be and what it means. To the most extent, they would be persons who say they can't serve the army because, by nature, the pacifists, they're not for violence, they've never used guns, they've never been violated or in any other way punished, and eventually, they'd come into consideration, after checking, to respect that complaint of their conscience. One fundamental question arises - why did you, or the government, or whoever wrote the law, not take care of our country? All right, civilian military service, but that doesn't need to automatically involve serving a military arm outside the military. For what? There are so many jobs in the Army that are not tied to weapons. Why should the state be detached from the budget to pay for these services? He can do anything. Professionally, those who have agreed to serve the military deadline should use that time to obtain the highest possible training, meaning that they are trained for future, possibly, participation in any military action within the limits of their physical capabilities. I'm not getting into what you're doing at the Ministry. I'm interested in making that clear by law. We'll have a budget now. The military should have precise information on how much money it spends on these other services that involve work that has nothing to do with weapons, from kitchens, to all other services for which the military has needs. It doesn't take any moment to have a dilemma, so much and so much every year it takes, when you fill in so many numbers, then, eventually, they, if there are more, can be directed to change diapers, etc. One more thing to take care of, especially in professions that are deficiting, which is problematic, and that is, for example, taking care of the elderly, working in the gerontological centres or institutions distracted by development, etc., is that the state is aiming to exploit the opportunities it has, not that those who do not want to serve the military deadline in a simple way, without any problems, lose it. About that, Mr. Minister, you have to take care of it. When you say -- for moral reasons, you ask a question that, in some ways, a soldier who has accepted to serve, and in case a decision is made to send our army to some countries, let's say, all the assumptions are that we will be referred to the countries where the Americans started the war, is currently Afghanistan, Iraq, already predicting Iran. I believe that a large number of soldiers will have a moral dilemma that requires them to go to those states, because he has sworn an oath, he is bound by law. No matter what you let them volunteer at the first moment, there will come a moment when you will not have volunteers, and you will have to please dear George, and then you will give the order to pick up people. That's the problem that's being put up. They really have a moral problem. They don't want to fight for Americans, they don't want to go to terrorist wars, they don't want to come into a situation where war crimes are committed by Americans, which you have information to do around the globe, wherever war starts. Here's the most obvious example of how America's leadership, from the president, is lower, is immoral. For years, we've been sifting through information that Iran is producing nuclear weapons, that is, it's entered the production of atomic weapons, the production of enriched uranium, so that it can build an atomic bomb, as the whole world has been showered with information that Iraq is producing weapons of mass destruction. Mr. Minister, you can laugh as much as you want, but for such things in normal life, it's in court, and it's fat. We learned two days ago that a report by the Central Intelligence Agency was delivered to the President of America in 2003, which says that such uranium production was suspended. That's not what the President of America has notified, not only the world, but also your own citizens, and you're in a position to cooperate with such a state. Is there a more obvious example of what all Americans serve to achieve their own goals? But, well, if that's what they're used to, should we be involved? Should we say in advance that we will send up to a thousand soldiers because they need it, because their dirty work needs to be done all over the world? Only in that case would there be a moral reason that would lead a large number of soldiers not to go on these missions. I'm just going to give you one more example, to see what kind of situation you can go into blindly listening to Americans and doing all their tasks. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been sending its contingent to Iraq for the third time. You know that at the beginning of the 1990s, part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Muslim part, was largely supported by Islamic states, believing, under the rush of propaganda and all the lies they were covered, to help them in such a way. Now look at the situation. Now these countries have experienced that those they helped come to countries where the Americans started war and help the Americans. They're doing it in Iraq today. Tomorrow, maybe, they'll be working in Iran. That's why you have to take care of it, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13049	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The People's MP, Dr. Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13050	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, we are also joining the SRS and we want to support this amendment, because we believe that civil service of the military deadline is something that is inadequately used as a term. In fact, civil service is a way not to serve a military deadline to avoid a military deadline. We consider it a much more appropriate term to serve the civil military deadline – a labour obligation towards the state. Why do I say that? Not because I'm an MP for the SPS who's in opposition, but because I've had a chance to be with these guys who, by the way, are at the civilian military service at the Negotin Health Center, where I work. I've made sure a million times that what they're doing really doesn't have the character of a military obligation. They're good guys who want to listen well-intentioned and do everything they're told, but it doesn't have the character of a military obligation. First of all, they have their working hours, like all other health workers at the Health Center, unlike those who regularly serve a military term, who do not know the working time, who work 24 hours a day, especially during training. They also have duty, and preparedness, etc. So, practically, there are no points of contact between the civil service of the military and the military period that is served regularly, the regular military term. What's their job? Their job is, mostly, to do something that's secondary in some activities, to take the laundry to the laundry, to clean, to hold the hospital circle. Even paramedics can't be, because they don't have a course for that kind of thing. They can help the paramedics, but if they were in regular military service, they'd learn that, because we know that there are company paramedics in the army, and water medics, so, well, they'd learn, they'd even be trained for some future to do something. What it also lacks is getting to know the basic concepts of military service, which is what military doctrine, which is military doctrine, which are instructions, as is organized by the Army. They don't even know, they don't even have contact with the uniform. They don't know what she looks like, what kind of uniforms there are, what uniform she's used for, how it's part of HTZ equipment and how all these HTZ equipment can be used. They would learn all that, exactly, if they were to serve a regular military deadline, and they didn't have to come into contact with weapons, because this HTZ military equipment is useful, pragmatic, in all emergency situations, in environmental disasters, and even in civil protection. I've talked to a lot of people and asked them, they know what a gas mask is, they know what a fire extinguisher is, but they don't know how to use it, they don't know what a combat backpack is, they don't know what it's used for, they don't know how to use a compass, they don't know how to use a bus, etc. Then, for example, they don't know how to form a final site, which they would learn during regular military service. I would like to remind you that the finale does not only serve to form itself in the course of war, but also in the course of peacetime, in all important emergency situations, as the settlement is formed, which are the parameters, which are rules, for example, in the case of floods, in the case of fires, for internally displaced faces, etc. There are many jobs during military service that require no contact with weapons. But not most importantly, the most important thing is that during the service of the regular military period they acquire basic values, which is hierarchy, they are positive life habits that can be learned and acquired in the military. There is a huge barracks in Negota, which is now empty, there are many artillery weapons, which are now rusting, which is unsustained. Every time I walk past those objects, I remember that these kids could do it, they could make a positive contribution to these things. What they can also learn is the doctrine of civil protection taught during the service of the regular military period and which will eventually be needed in life. Why am I saying this? Because we may be waiting for some modern warfare where there are a huge number of civilian casualties, an increasing number of civilian casualties, and an increasing number of soldiers who are victims. Namely, the latest military strategy and doctrines, right now, protects all those who serve a military deadline, all soldiers, but civilians die. Right now, we need to reduce these civilian victims from military acts. It is known that an explosive agent has been dumped, as it appears to be poisoned water, etc. These are all extraordinary opportunities that can be overcome by the fact that these guys can learn it during regular military service without having to carry a weapon. There's a lot more to it, so I don't take the time to be more pragmatic, for example, how to decontaminate people, food, water, how to use shelters. There are many deaths and many people with disabilities due to unprofessional behavior, precisely under these circumstances, which would be learned by regular military service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13051	I thank the People's MP, Ninoslav Dimitrievich. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13052	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs, what they said in the debate earlier on on this amendment is simply not true and requires a kind of intervention. Civil service of the military is not a way to avoid a military obligation; it is a way to fulfill it in another way and under other conditions. It is a practice in Europe, in other democratic countries, one of the basic achievements of democracy. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina and LSV youth have been collecting signatures for a long time to make this possible in our country. The basic right of man and fundamental human right is the right to choose. That choice can also be that someone does not want to serve a military term under arms, not just for religious reasons. I'm surprised you only recognize religious reasons as legitimate reasons. Reasons can be completely different. They can be ideological, moral, simply, there are people who are pacifists, who don't like guns and who don't want to have anything to do with guns. That right must be respected. There's been a lot of talk here about what everything in the army is learning, and these people aren't going to learn. I just have to say that learning is not an army, it's a school for learning. What our soldiers in the army can learn might be better if they don't learn in life. It is particularly dangerous that the discussion of this amendment goes in the direction of abolishing, the unnecessary service of the civil military deadline, which would mean a reduction in the level of human rights, which is against the constitution, because the Constitution guarantees that the level of human rights cannot be reduced anymore. The very fact that civil military service lasts longer than regular military service speaks of an unfavourable situation in which people who wish to serve the civilian military deadline are also involved in discrimination against these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13053	I thank the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13054	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and you noticed that this Rules of Procedure is not good when a topic like this arises, that several times in 15 minutes it is not enough to hear all the political parties' views that are represented in the National Assembly. Because of you, in order for you not to have a problem with the president, I would like to appeal to Rule 136 of our Rules of Procedure and expect the minister to finally get involved, to say something about this. It wouldn't be good if he did it at the end, when I have some obligation, so I won't be able to hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13055	Mr. Secretary listens very carefully. I begged him to listen carefully, let the man listen, and he'll answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13056	At first, I have to take the opportunity to apologize to that counselor, because I made a big mistake, and I confused two last names and two names. That's settled, that Mr. Counselor and I. I apologized. It was Jeremic, it wasn't the other one. The other one is very positive, because he wrote a beautiful book about Chetniks. You can find that book on flat mountain and it's a good book. Mr. Sutanovac, since you are a representative of the government for this item of the agenda, you see, ever since this new constitution was passed, a military obligation is no longer a constitutional category. Before, there was an obligation for every citizen to defend the state, to fulfil his obligation. She's not in the Constitution anymore. Data is a general formulation that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has some obligations in the field of defence, security, but in one general way. Now, practically, every man, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia in the defence system, is in some military obligation system in accordance with the law, of course, under the prescribed conditions. But what you, under the influence of the NGO and these pacifists, did, is raise your conscience to the level of constitutional norm. I'm not going to go into the details of what's written, if this is in the Constitution, but the objection of conscience refers to that a man's military obligation doesn't meet by law by carrying a weapon, he has animosity towards a weapon, but he doesn't have a uniform, he doesn't have a barracks, he doesn't according to the elders, he doesn't have a military system. He doesn't have military animosity to the defense system. You continue to go, and in this article, which is covered by the amendment of Mr. Bečić, that is Article 48, you replace it all, and you say – it is civil service. Civil service exists in some countries, we cannot exist, because it is not foreseen as a constitutional category. What does that mean? You see, in the first position of Article 45, there is a military obligation and a second obligation that involves carrying arms. So the citizen has the right to say - I point out the objection of conscience and do not bear arms when fulfilling my obligations. But you will get a paradoxical situation so that someone who's a hunter doesn't meet his military obligation, points out the objection of conscience. It's possible that later, at the age of 30, he's hired to work on physical and technical security, where he's supposed to carry a weapon. Article 45. The constitution says he meets his military obligation, but he doesn't carry a weapon. He'll get the Army a job, he'll peel potatoes, he'll do this, he'll do that. There's this colleague, Ninoslav, right when he said-- he finds out what discipline is, what is an organization of the state. Look out, people in only two places are equal, in the education system and in the military, in other places there are political discrimination, more or less. The reflection of equality, when I was a student, were uniforms. I was almost in Ireland, everyone who goes to school wearing a uniform, and with us they threw out those apron and those dolams, etc. Another kind of equality is that everyone meets the obligation to uniform. Today, though, those who meet their military obligations do not carry many guns and rifles. Guns a soldier never wears, guns wear during that two-month training. Civil service has to be thrown out of the defense law and you have to get it out of the law, I suppose, on military duty, because it has to be regulated there. Objection to my conscience, I don't want to go in there for reasons, but there can be wide-ranging reasons, so there will be no contact with the gun, with the weapon. If we go now with a broader interpretation, what can fit into the notion of a weapon, you know that weapons can also be that equipment, and computers, etc. However, we MPs are also armed, our weapons are language, a speech that cannot question the security and defence of the country. So Mr. Becic saw well that those two words "civil service" must be thrown out of this article. We accept, he objected, he won't have touch points with a gun, a gun, with a tank, with this, with that, that's another dimension, but what's happening with us is a kind of cartooning, theater, and over here, and over there, it doesn't have a cover in the Constitution. I also have to tell you that when you put two or three years ago into civil service practice, then you yourself admitted, not you, Mr. Sutanovac, but whoever was at the time at the General Staff and the Ministry of Defense, that there was no legal basis for such a thing, but under public pressure, the military found some interest, it was decided so. So there's no civil service, it can only be a service without weapons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13057	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13058	Two minutes is enough for the officer, that's not the problem. Mr. Minister, at the session of the Legislative Committee, yesterday, we discussed these issues, I received some answers there and, please, it is necessary to pass the Civil Service Act quickly. It is necessary to pass a civil protection law, a comprehensive civil protection law, and it is necessary to particularly regulate the law on military obligations, because there are several open issues that, based on what it says in Article 48 of the Defence Act, cannot be understood. I can't argue with the Constitution anymore. It's over. This question is over. Since 1984, there has been a campaign to object to conscience in the former Yugoslavia, that political opinion has prevailed and it exists here now. I don't agree with that, but it's no longer a question of controversy. For me, the next question is important: Is the man who served his military time under arms and who, based on his training, by serving that military term, was deployed to a military unit, could be punished afterwards? How? Because he has to respond every time his unit of war was raised and every time he has to do everything he's asked of him, because a military soldier under arms, unlike this other one, who's respected, so that, complaining about this, a civilian has served a military deadline, eliminated all potential health risks over the next 50 years. So I expect this issue to be resolved in a fair way. It is unacceptable that in Serbia, fires, floods, other natural disasters run without the involvement of those who have served a military deadline, and that children who leave today and serve under a rifle, as said in Serbia, must respond to both drills and mobilization, and participate in war fighting acts. This is an important question, because a number of people aren't going to the Army now under fire for these reasons, Mr. Minister, because they think they're being punished multiple times. So there must be a sense of equality between Serbian citizens and, in that sense, we expect intervention and the adoption of several laws. There is a medium solution, bring the law that the Army in Serbia is professional, that children do not go to military service, so let those who want to do it for money go, but also in these conditions there are obligations for a number of people under arms to be able to defend the country. So this is a very big question to solve with this amendment and we expect answers about the questions I've asked, because it brings great dilemmas to children who are otherwise motivated to go to the military. What I'm trying to say is that I come from a place where the percentage of those who go to the Army is still large. If this is a trend, then it won't be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13059	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Cacak proposed that a new member of 66 be added after article 66. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have tabled -- on the proposal of the defence minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia establishes a military tourism programme. With this amendment, I wanted to offer, on behalf of LSV, a new solution to the additional financing of the Army in Serbia, for a simple reason, which is obvious that the problems facing the active officer staff, as well as all employees in this very important area of our lives, cannot be solved in a conventional manner. I'll explain the ideas that led us. Based on the experiences of developed countries, it became clear that the military could not be exclusively a spending service. It must somehow earn some money, even in far richer countries than Serbia, there are institutions for military tourism. It's not what you think military tourism is, making resorts for the military, so now they can work as regular hotels, but it's providing services from the professional sphere of military action. Here, first of all, I mean the possibility of renting military equipment, military facilities or, specifically, the use of weapons for exercise purposes, for purposes, in the end line, entertainment. If someone's willing to pay to shoot a cannon, then that should be made possible. One little one costs about 5,000 euros. When it went off in the war, she was fired and she did her job. One gun grenade is approximately 700 euros in rank, I'm talking about average value. So, if they're, like, figures, if you can get people out of sports and entertainment to shoot a cannon, or to drive a tank, and I know cases like that, here, Mr. Minister has a proposal to rent a cannon battery for wedding fun, for fame or what, I think that would achieve a very significant financial effect. The grenade has already been paid by taxpayers. So, it represents some money that has been taken from these taxpayers, and it will be so if it serves only for military purposes, and we have more supplies, that Mr. Minister can say a few words in this assembly. So we come to the point where these grenades, at best, serve not to hurt anyone when they blow up the warehouse, as we've had several of those opportunities lately. In the event that they are spent in this way, we, which has already been taken from the budget, would return to the budget, further fertilise it, and get a significant set of financial resources, one of which could solve one of the most important problems in this society, or at least the strongest, which is the residential issue of active and professional military personnel. This should be taken with full seriousness, and I can see that my proposal does not come to your attention enough, which is surprising, because this is the first time I've heard from this speaker a proposal that the Army will do something that will bring some new money, not go on with the budget. So that way, we could, on the one hand, use out-of-date equipment, ammunition that brings out the deadline of use, for commercial purposes, as some other countries do. For example, the U.S. Army has a normal practice of renting their facilities in this way, as well as equipment, people. Customized to our needs, we could use a series of military polygons, which now serve nothing, as a tourist destination, we could use all of this to promote Serbia and its brand in the most recognizable way and make a serious source of income to solve the burning problems in society. It was the basis of the idea to propose such an amendment. Say, if a citizen, even, I know one, wants to drive a tank, how can he do it in this country, if he's out of line to be in active military service, which I, as an artilleryman, once served? How can he drive a tank? He can't drive a tank for a simple reason. Why? To buy it, it's expensive, and the punch is on the home budget, it's not supposed to work and it's not used every day, so you need it. Mr. Todorovic, rightly, notes that it is also a matter of parking, which should be taken care of. We're in a position where a man who wants to drive a tank doesn't know what he's going to buy -- it's too expensive to keep it -- our facilities have nowhere to go. It's just best to rent that tank. Of course, there's now a question of whether a man can get into a tank at all, and then whether to change the size of an opening or do a person's liposuction, there were such suggestions. But the fact is that when you take this problem seriously, a large set of options for changing the military's purpose and using its resources are currently not being used. This would begin to solve the issue of housing and the issue of an active coalition of professionals. In the military, we could thus open Serbia's branding in a very recognizable way. We could do so in many ways to improve our relationship in society. Because if the Federation doesn't stop fetishing and its key role in national identity, we're going to be in a position to serve the state as a service to the military, not an army service to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13061	There is a word on the subject of the amendment, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13062	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, at the session of the Legislative Committee yesterday, I suggested that this amendment should not be considered because it is not legally possible, because it is at the level of ridicule and because it offends the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this state and all the honorable people who are or will be in the military or who have been in the military. I have an understanding of humor, to which the gentleman who wrote this amendment tried to charm a number of political like-minded people, only here the devil took the joke and here, in one rude way, Mr. Chanak wrote an amendment trying to explain his political view of the defense, the military, the former, the present, the future, etc. I don't mind, it's legitimate. Everything that is not forbidden is allowed in politics. That's not controversial. Let me remind you, Mr. Canak, military schools were mostly boys from the poorest families in Serbia, because, among other things, and guided by patriotic reasons, they were the fastest to become serious, responsible people, because in this way, from the position of the peasants, they tried to change their perspective and to give the most that they could for their country and their people. Today, children go to the Serbian Army, mostly from such families. For these others, you're suggesting that they buy the right to ride a tank or ride on a 'little', possibly, do some kind of checkup in chemical laboratories, maybe salt some of the agents that used to use units that were involved in the chemical-biological protection of this country, and that doesn't make sense. The serious Legislative Committee, which did not show yesterday that it was serious, with full respect for the colleagues sitting with me in it, would not allow this amendment to come here, because it certainly is not legally possible. In this country, punishment is threatened, if you arrest someone with a gun they don't have a license for, up to five years in prison, and you suggest that they play with a tank or I don't know what else to do. You wanted to be nice. It's possible someone will believe that, but it doesn't make any sense. The Army's well past what you are. Good country's gone as you are. I hope it'll be better in the future than it is now, because you won't decide anything. It's a shame what you did. As much as it seems to you that you've made an impression on the MPs, on the public, on the media, that doesn't seem like a serious person. Your games, Mr. Chanak, go from the gallows to the terraces to the riding of the little ones. You're advocating very unusual manners. There's no point in what you're doing. Indeed, I ask my colleagues, first of all, from the Legislative Committee and others who can influence, based on what the Rules of Procedure has given them, to prevent the mockery from becoming a agenda in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and your amendment, Mr. Canak, is a joke. What you're doing doesn't make any sense, and there's no stasis in anything, no common sense. It's your personal business. Therefore, of course no amendment will be accepted. Of course you'll answer the line, of course I'll answer you, and then you'll answer me, and then I'll tell you, and then we'll spend 100 hours here, but right now I'm telling you that I'm not going to spend another second on this subject, you don't deserve it, or your amendment, not yourself. This has nothing to do with you personally, but with this abomination you wrote and you were prepared to sign that it was an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13063	Replica, MP Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's obviously a misunderstanding here. First of all, in this country it's not a forbidden tank, it's a cannon. Take care of it. You make a difference when you talk about these things. You're talking about a joke, and I'm asking you, is it a joke what I'm saying or is it a joke what you're doing? By leaving hundreds of thousands of people with no roof over their heads, leaving the army of this country in shame and humiliation of the wars it has waged and lost, because it worked for the benefit of the party of which you are a member? Is it a joke that I'm making a suggestion to earn a dinar on a military machine that remained as a monument to a regime that you were an exponent, or is it a joke to keep on living in error about that and such an army, which could only spread shame, because it was at war for the account and in the name of those who led her into disgrace, such as the party you belong to? Are you telling me that it's a joke when I try, on behalf of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and my own personal, to find a way to squeeze some other dinar out to solve these people's fundamental issues? Do you want me to talk more seriously? Do you mind my style, my way or what I'm saying? The thing that bothers you the most is what I'm saying. I'm hitting the foundations of your pseudo-serious way of thinking. You say this amendment sucks. The whole history of what you've done over the past 20 years has no other word to explain it by disgust, but your disgust has cost the heads of hundreds of thousands of people, and home and roof over their heads - millions. It cost the honor and cheeks of the entire country for which generations died without asking why, believing they were killed for something good, noble, smart and useful, and you made a daily policy out of it. You've done something of this where you're trying to empty people's words that they don't have a roof over their heads of patriotism, that there's nowhere to go from this country to loyalty and loyalty, and that the army of this country, its once, pride, has become its greatest ballast, that it's the price of DOS power, as if you weren't in power for decades. I won't go on, so I won't be warned about insulting the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13065	I thank the People's MP, Nenad Canka. According to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the amendment, the People's MP, Milisav Petronijevic, is. You have seven minutes left for the amendment. I'd rather the minister hear your opinion of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13066	I'd love to, too, but the reason for my report is Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to say that here is not the first time a great insult and a lie has been made. No one fought for the SPS's account, not the Army. The army has defended this country with honor. What's the problem today is using the word "honor" and "honor," that's another question. In 1999, in a situation where she defended her country, this army defended the country at the invitation of state authorities, not at the invitation of the SPS. Therefore, the main order in one country is that when the country is threatened, and the country has been threatened, to defend itself. The army did it with honor. Ask foreign experts what the assessment of the Army was during the 1999 NATO aggression. Yes, it was an honorable army. After that, yes, the destruction is completely, gone, so to speak, you destroyed her property, her technique, her people, so to speak. Just as much as I'd like to point out. It's an honor for me to belong to a party back then, which, in the way of power, defended its people, defended my country, and I will always be proud of it. Of course, like any citizen who thinks his country should defend against the attack, I will continue to do so, it will continue to be the SPS, and I am proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13067	I thank the People's MP, Milisav Petronivic. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly, reported. Here you go, Natasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13068	Mr. Mrkonjic, I'm reporting for article 198. The Rules of Procedure - and I have a parliamentary question for Mr. Secretary. I ask the lady who keeps the notes to follow, to record precisely, and Mr. Sutanovec – to answer me immediately, if not, according to the Rules of Procedure, has an option of eight days. My question is about the Military Academy. VMA, a health institution, one of the most prestigious, not only with us, but also in Europe and the world, is in an extremely difficult situation. I cannot give myself the right to speak for myself on behalf of several thousand VMA employees, but, given that for many years I have been following the problems that VMA is facing, it is a particular issue for you, Mr Sutanovac – what have you, by coming to the head of the ministry, done, in agreement with the Minister of Health Tomica Milosavljevic, and have you, in general, raised a question in the Government of the Republic of Serbia regarding the current situation and incorporation of the VMA, so to say, because this is the only way and opportunity to help the VMA, in our country's health system? According to the Health Act adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when you were an MP, three years ago, VMA was released. Scientific research work, taking on their team, especially one that performs organ transplants, saving lives of endangered people, co-operation with institutions, institutions in the field of the medical science of the highest rank, is so envious that we can rightly say that although we live in Serbia, in which everything is extremely difficult, in which it is worse and worse than the coming DOS to power, these people, primarily with their knowledge and commitment to work, do everything that the VMA, for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health does not care at all, because it is not a health institution that receives any donations from the budget, remains on this, as a quality, and that people there have the highest possible care. As far as accommodation facilities are concerned, as I said earlier, for the most difficult undertaking, as well as for those, conditionally put, easier surgery required by our citizens, for the care of both young and older people, VMA fronts over all clinical centres in our country. A specific question – when will you, Mr Sutanovac, start the status issue, first of all, VMA, if you have any authority, and will you, in general, make an effort as defence minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to sign a quality contract with the VMA? Now it looks like this. VMA, because it has been released from our health system, has a contract with the Republic Health Institute that any branch of a health organization, or insurance health care institution, can interpret differently. Let's just say, if you go to the Kragujevac, where I live, and the competent health care institution gives you instructions to perform an intervention on VMA, it doesn't automatically mean that the Health Insurance Office is going to refund you, because no one has ever, and until the end, been able to expand - what is it that the state, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, recognises as a service that VMA can provide, and what is it that citizens have to find themselves in someplace else. It's a very serious question. These people expect the state, especially after the collapse of the state community, to take care of them, their status. It would be a real shame, and, above all, a disgrace and something that would go on to you and the current prime minister and the minister of health - that this unsustainable condition would continue to exist. Because it's, as I said at the beginning, and I'm going to end it, the health care facility not only of the highest rank here, but it could envy both Americans and all those who have and provide such services for the most difficult possible operations, but they're more expensive than VMA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13069	I thank my colleague, Natasha Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Dragan Sutanovac. Personally, I know the problem and I'm joining the proposal to make VMA a scientific institution. I don't know how many ministers are in progress, in that matter. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13070	Dear Chairman, I'm sorry you don't trust the minister, but I'm very much in that matter. The question that's being asked here is the question I asked myself and my management on 16 May, when I became Minister of Defense. Believe me, from that day forward, we've been working on VMA's integration into the civil health system. VMA, as one of the most serious institutions in the country and probably the most serious military academy, or medical academy in the whole region, suffered a number of problems over the past period. It would be very bad to say that any of the ministers contributed to that. Simply, the budgets that were for the Army of Serbia, or the Ministry, did not allow the replacement of the equipment needed for such an institution. I'll tell you that I gave the order to make a list of everything that should be in such an academy, that this academy would be and remain in the voice it was on. We recently increased the supplemental supplemental work to doctors. It was unfair for doctors working on VMA to have two or three times less diaries than they have in civil society. We plan to increase the salary of all employees from the introduction, practically, of this law, i.e. his vote. Next year we plan to renovate new equipment from magnetic resonance, etc. What's most important at this point is that VMA uses about 60 to 65% of its capacities, practically 35% of the capacity is free to engage in civil health. The interest of both Serbian citizens and VMA, the Ministry of Defence and the Republic of Serbia, is that these accommodation facilities are made available to civil health and that, of course, costs are refunded by the Health Fund. I must say, too, that a large number of Serbian citizens, given the circumstances, have personal experience in this, does not know that it is possible to do VMA operations and pay for these operations. A large number of Serbian citizens operate on private clinics, with doctors who have far less experience, or much less good equipment compared to VMA. I call on all those who have serious health problems to report first of all to the VMA and to make sure that, indeed, we have a very good and respectable hospital in Serbia. I say, my intensity is that at the end of my term, this hospital is in a much better situation than at the beginning of my term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13071	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13072	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, the honourable MPs, this is an example of having a debate that is necessary and necessary, but at the wrong time. When the system laws on health care and the health system were passed, this topic was to be opened. I must tell you that Serbia has inherited from the former Yugoslavia a separate health care system for military insurance. If you are looking at the experiences of some neighbouring countries, for example, Croatia, it does not have a special health care system for military insurance or military personnel. The second largest military medical academy in the former Yugoslavia, after Belgrade, which was indeed the most representative and significant institution of that kind, was the Zagreb Military Medical Academy. So they left the army's health care system up to the level of garrison infirmary. Everything else is a civil health care system, with VMA having some specialised areas, such as military surgery and the like, which do not have other institutions. So that's a system question. It is one thing to fix the situation on VMA, to isolate more from the military budget, but this question must be asked by the Minister of Health, Professor Milosavljevic. Does he, as part of his work, plan to integrate Serbia's military health care system into that civilian system and then solve the problem, by leaving one level of it to the military itself, because there is a need, for example, at the level of garrison or at some other level. So this isn't even serious. This is a very serious topic, but this topic should have been opened when we discussed the foundations of Serbia's health system. Now talk only about VMA is the problem because VMA, and to say, has its own price list, and it is not a price list that recognises the Republic Health Insurance Institute. I have to say, we all contribute to that system. Now the question is, why would an operation of the appendix at the Clinical Center have one price lower than the surgery of the appendix on VMA? It's a big problem for all the citizens of this country. That's it. So, the health minister calls, and then talks to him about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13073	Thank you. Natasa Jovanovic, MP and vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then Mr Sutanovac will conclude this part of the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13074	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Minister, I have the right to comment on an answer to the parliamentary question. So, counterpart Korać is right, because he has only expanded the subject yet, because he is a member of the Health Committee and because of the fact that the point is - not whether the purchase of new equipment, not whether by allowing accommodation capacity, each civilian will be able to heal and receive a favor on VMA, but whether the Republic Health Institute, which is the political decision, the minister's decision, to recommend it, agree in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to recognise this possibility and this case. This is what counterpart Korac said, that any citizen of Serbia, which is his constitutional right, because he has the right to health care, chooses whether to be treated at any of the clinical centres, where it belongs to him by the place of residence, or may decide, that is, to go to VMA, regardless of whether it is cataract surgery, categorisation, installation of an artificial hip and not to go any further. Can this citizen come and say, by his own free choice, I want it done on VMA? The VMA price list for numerous interventions is even much lower than in many private clinics, and you are, right now, inviting citizens and saying, come to VMA. It's all about the market. I want them to operate private medical clinics and polyclinics in our country, like you, right, so we have such an open society where people are going to compete and where there's going to be competition. The state must stand in the protection of what we have created for decades, and we, as the legal heirs of the former state where the VMA was created, should give such a possibility and such a right. At this point, you said yourself, there's 35%, and maybe even more, maybe that's the data that people with VMA gave you, accommodation facilities for civilians. How does a civilian get there? There are numerous cases in the middle where I live that people are looking for it, and they can't leave because the Republic Health Office won't refund those costs. I'm telling you, Mr. Minister, in those situations where it's pointed out what's subject to refunding, every institution interprets it in its own way, and that's how people disabling themselves in the right sense of words, and they don't have the opportunity to exercise their right. So that's the point of everything. Svetlana Vukajlović, she always goes along with this Tomica Milosavljevic, nicely, comes and invites VMA and the people who do this work at VMA and says – we are open, completely, to co-operate with you, you have absolutely the same treatment in the state as the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, etc. So we're going to solve this problem, and what military bonds are, or those who have the right to be treated and which, by the way, their status in society points to VMA, is something else. I spoke here specifically about co-operation with the civil sector, that is, civil health authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13075	Thank you. Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13076	I must say, it's not quite that simple, Your Honor, because so far it's not done because it's not easy. I already had a meeting with Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and the lady you mentioned, Svetlana Vukajlović, and with a member of the District Government, Mr Lučić. It's a long way to go. Believe it or not, tomorrow, on Friday, I was supposed to have a meeting at VMA with all the department chiefs and VMA chiefs, to bring them closer to what we've done so far and in which direction we're going. The idea was not for me to promote here the VMA only for those who could pay for it themselves. On the contrary, I'm telling you that we, about civilians, talk quite seriously. It's not easy to determine the price list. Mr. Korać is absolutely right, because the state is different for civil health, and the Ministry is singled out for military health. There must be a good bill, which will not damage civil health or military health. That thing's a big deal. I'd be very pleased to inform you, I can see you're interested. Believe me that my interest, first of all, is to take care of it and finally those doctors who work on VMA get their status, not only while they are on VMA, but, in general, in society, what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said, and that is to acknowledge their scientific work, something that may be an even bigger problem regarding VMA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13077	I thank the minister. Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13078	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, without the intention of plowing with colleagues who have spoken about the previous two amendments, I really don't want to challenge anyone in a replica, I only have two objections to make. First of all, about the claim that there is nothing in the army that can and should be taught, that everything he learns should be learned at school. It's, of course, unacceptable, because even after school, it's supposed to be taught, it's supposed to be perfected, but not in the way that people from here say that they shouldn't be taught in the military, but only in school. You shouldn't go into the white world to learn, you shouldn't go for your own opinion abroad, you shouldn't go for the courses of that kind and, of course, the army should exist, not in terms of civil service, but just as my colleagues have explained about this amendment. As for the proposal to use the tanks for tourist purposes, only one remark. I'm not plowing, nor talking about the amendment, but it is that we, even for tourist purposes, have no more tanks, given that DS President Boris Tadic sold them into old iron, that they're spilling into Sartid, that all the tanks that the Serbian Army had sold for as much money as a quarter of a tank could buy, so there's no idea, that we're not discussing it. As for Minister Sutanovec's concern about the VMA, he best shows his care in action and shows when he has made more and better efforts to share his resignations with women and children so-called. The pillows, as you call them, Ratko Mladic, and we call them honorable citizens and honorable people of the Republic of Serbia. Today, indeed, I am fascinated by the behavior of the Minister of Shutanovec. I'm comparing it to what happened two days ago, when we discussed the bill in principle; then Mr. Sutanovac very rudely threw, jumped out of place, made some strange faces. He's so calm today, he's worried about it. I don't know if it's about the functioning of the bencedin or the fact that no one has mentioned to him today the famous Brašnjevic brothers, that no one has mentioned to him the plasma televisions, the furniture that Brašnevići has set up for him, his apartment...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13079	Belief, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13080	And what the security people say, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, the Brašnević brothers, that they are personally with Mr. Sutanovec...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13081	It's not a subject, Veronica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13082	... in Italy, that there, in his cutest buttocks, they took a measure of clothing, that they were after these measures and rehearsals...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13083	You're a lovely lady and a smart woman, back to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13084	... Bringing it here. I don't know if it'll provoke Mr. Shutanovci...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13085	Don't provoke him, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13086	What are you afraid of, Mr. Grouchy? You're so hearty defending him that you have no reason to fear that he can in any way endanger you, neither verbally nor in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13087	I have no reason, but the man has been very correct so far, and we have to respect that. Let's get to the amendment, Veronica, you're the master here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13088	The man here is the minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and he is here by obligation, not to sit as a mummy, but to participate in the work of this Parliament. The man is here to, when we talk about amendments, explain to the MPs why he does not accept the amendment, why he does not accept an additional explanation. Perhaps, however, some MP convinces him that it makes sense to accept the amendment and then, nicely, to the National Assembly, he says so. It is his role here, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Sutanovac, the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, obviously said the same thing to you, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Schutanjić - don't touch us, he has a short fuse, as people say. They say -- that's how he behaves both in the party, and in the government, and then they talk...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13089	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're a lawyer, stick to the amendment, Veronica. I'm a measuring engineer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13090	I can't hear you at all, nor can I hear you, Mr. Carrot.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13091	Okay, but I hear you, and I'd like you to talk more about law, you're a very smart woman here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13092	They also mention an interesting gathering on October 5th, when, although only Djindjic's errand boy, he jumped and screamed why they no longer went into a real fight with political insinuators, why they didn't move, but literally, at shooting all those who opposed the Friday revolution, etc. Now, Mr. Grouchy, to grant your wish, I want a little bit about the amendment. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have proposed that this article be deleted. The 76th member has the title "Citizens' Association" and says citizens' associations can base their work programmes on activities in areas of importance for defence. Very interesting. "The government and the Ministry of Defence can, on the basis of the criteria previously established, participate in funding projects and activities in areas of importance for defence. The criteria and the procedure for the allocation of funds under Article 2 shall be prescribed by the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence'. I think anyone who may have never had a chance to read this article, now that he hears it, will understand how pointless it is in the defense law to put in this attitude. Who are you planning to finance in a magical way, Minister, because everything that is financed should be contained in the budget? How public it is, because we are discussing the budget, and I remind you that since 2000, we have never had a final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the agenda. I wonder, then, what would you do with these funds and who would you give them to? You've heard from the MPs today how the Army lives, how soldiers can't wait for the weekend, and that's why you let them run home every weekend to eat, because they're half hungry at the service of the military. Although it lasts only six months, not so many young boys who go to military service can handle it, due to incredibly bad conditions, above all, material conditions in the military. I'm asking you, instead of focusing on what is really your job and obligation, you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where do you get the idea that you citizens' associations finance the name of the defense, in the name of the Army? It's just amazing. Citizens' associations are regulated by a special law, funded by the budget, and so far funded. How much of these funds, to which associations, is something the Government is talking about in its proposal on the budget, and what the MPs are also discussing, and ultimately, the assembly majority decides to accept what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is actually proposing. We talk about this every time normally and we'll talk, we can't influence, but at least we can inform the public, as I want to ask you, first of all, for the sake of the public of Serbia -- when you suggested that some secret services, or groups, associations of citizens, finance, were you thinking about those different foreigners walking around the Ministry of Defence and speaking English in the headquarters of our army? Did you mean these quasi-military analysts, did you mean NGOs? Who do you really think you're funding for the money of Serbian citizens and under the guise of necessity for defence and for the Army of the Republic of Serbia? In an explanation, the Government says the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution creates a basis for regulating the activities of the Association of Citizens who are of importance for defence (radio amateurs, divers, scouts, etc.) as well as for funding certain programmes on the basis of established criteria and procedures for the allocation of funds, as prescribed by the Government. I can't understand how it's a shame to imagine that scouts, radio amateurs, divers and other real plans, some of their work programmes, and you, based on these work programmes, will be giving them some resources, to the harm of the military and to the harm of the defense. It's just amazing. Of course there are situations where the military needs help from radio amateurs, divers and scouts, I am now teaching you, Mr. Minister, but it can be arranged by contracts for some specific activity, when you need help, or services from some associations, citizens' associations. I have to say that one of the reasons you have to go through the contracts, especially in the way you predicted, to finance some association, without intending to say anything bad about them, of course there should be, but it's known that associations should finance, that you've turned soldiers into diapers. If you didn't, you wouldn't need all these services. Then, as you've always been, within the military, you'd have all the necessary activists, because as long as you, in 2000, didn't start destroying the military, you from DOS, it's always been the military that had all kinds of help for the civilian population, not in war circumstances, but any elemental accident, serious car accident, anything that happened, it was the army that was able to get on the spot in the short run, to help the best possible way to the civilian population. You have now reduced the military to the fact that you have to finance groups of citizens who will be assisted by the military, and completely flat-rate, you have not said anything in particular, even that groups of citizens are building programs and offering them to the Minister of Sutanovec; a group of citizens are being registered, it is not a problem, and they are creating a programme that, eventually, in some situation, the military of the Republic of Serbia can help. Minister Sutanovac is considering their programme and it seems to him that it would be good, or, better yet, that some commission could be included in the funding of the programme, etc. Nice to all, only the bad military and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13093	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, then the National MP Aleksandar Marton, on the occasion of the amendments, the MPs Radovan Radovanovic and Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13094	Thank you. I see the MPs are active, and it's a good thing they're active. Ladies and gentlemen, every day we walk past these towers that have been bombed by the NATO Alliance. I'm surprised there's no answer to the question of what's wrong with these facilities, who's supposed to revitalize them, whether those who brought them down, or those who are their great friends, who are left in this country, unfortunately, to rule. Another big question, which I am interested in, are these NGOs, especially under the jurisdiction of Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, which absorbs all of our young personnel serving civilian deadlines in these NGOs. When they serve that military civilian deadline, they send them to certain countries, to London and Washington, and later to absorb them. It's a question for Mr. Minister, a very important question, because many military officers who are in charge of sending these soldiers who are absorbed by the lady in question cannot answer that question, because they later absorb them in certain military services that they are sending them to, allegedly, where human rights are threatened. You know very well that such an organization was sent to Azerbaijan, where Putin allegedly banished it. That's the question I'm looking for. As for Article 76, citizens get together, you discuss something that doesn't have a slight meaning, because the entire military industry today, which is supposed to produce certain weapons and tools, maltene, is going into a kind of ruin and is in a major dubious state. First, it cannot produce for our market because there are certain restrictions and there is a certain scientific ramp for them, too, cannot be found on the export market. Now here you are looking for certain associations, namely certain civilians who would join their work for certain projects that are vital to the defence of the country. There's a member on the agenda who doesn't have any legal or scientific sense. I think the Minister of Engineering was supposed to find out when he analyzed this bill and this member, that he doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13095	I thank the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Marton, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13096	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the morning part of the debate, Mr. Shane spoke about the Roma theatre, and I fully support his proposal that the Roma Theatre be financed by the Ministry of Culture, that is, the Republic budget. I think it's of national importance. Why am I talking about this? In 30 seconds, I will tell you something that has nothing to do with the Ministry of Defence, the Army and, in general, with the strategy of defence, but I believe that the presence of Mr Sutanovac, which is certainly significant in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, may be able to force Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica to convene after two and a half years a Council for International Relations of the Republic of Serbia, which is a very important body for the functioning of our country and, in general, for international relations. I find it embarrassing that there is a very important body in Serbia that has not been convened for two and a half years, that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica does not find it appropriate to call this body. I think the issue of the Roma Theatre and, in general, international relations could be better resolved. Mr. Sutanovac, influence the Prime Minister to call the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13097	I thank Ambassador Alexander Marton. The amendment's word is from MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13098	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, for the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, this article 76. A bill of defense and how it makes sense. What I'm saying is that we don't support Mrs. Radet's proposal to erase this. I'll try to illustrate why we think so. Recently, the Vojvodjani MPs and the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, received a performance from the Association of Retired Petty Officers of Serbia. People say this - in order to meet the MPs of the people, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia with the status and social status of this social group, we present to you the next performance. ''We know that all the troubles that have come to us in the Ministry of Defence, the Human Resources Sector, and there are some people sitting there who are following orders from one of the Ministry of Finance's political powers, whose goal is to ensure that the documents are served by soldiers, who, by the understanding of some politicians, have forgotten that these people are very honorable and very fair, at the highest professional level, carrying out tasks in the interest of all citizens of the states who have disappeared and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to the extent that these political circumstances have allowed. '"As an introduction to this story, I will tell you an anecdote which, according to its message, is impenetrable and tells everything in itself. The king, soldier and absoluteist Friedrich the Great, spent most of his life among his soldiers. He had a valid reason to believe that he knew all his soldiers quite well, yet one day he was not surprised by the fact that a suboffice, who had been in many wars, had never seen it before, and asked him how it could have happened. The old soldier gave him an easy answer – you know, Your Majesty, I rarely go to the theater, and I've never met you on the battlefield. In the period between 1920 and 1930, the response to military school was similar today. The causes are the same, and the consequences. At the time, there were many speeches about what retired officers, top-ranking officers do – they do the hardest construction jobs, beggars in Belgrade and other cities, in exactly certain places. Everything revolves around, the then state did not respect the dignity of its former soldiers, unfortunately, neither this state, nor that it respects them, but also more than that, accuses them of being a single budget and that they are a hindrance to Serbia's military reform. In fact, it's a perfidious way to separate this new army from its former colleagues. The start of battle and transition in the post-World War II period was transparently completed in 1974. The officers then killed the officer, they got a new call. Many social and status issues were resolved by the adoption of a new law on JNA. It lasted until 1994, when the current law on the Yugoslav Army was passed. An officer has risen from the dead with a direct threat that anyone who does not accept the translation of the term "younger officer" to the title "professional officer" loses his service within 30 days. What are senior pensioners, formerly highly esteemed soldiers, whose professional relationship to work was at the highest level, who represented the state in the best possible way in front of our people and in the world, because many were at various trainings and schools in both, then opposed, the block? There are still memories and bitterness in the soul, not because of poor pensions, for which the Chief of Staff himself, in the Time List, says they are miserable, that they should be brought to a reasonable extent and that wagon from the Army should be abandoned, but because of the fact that the state does not respect and demean its former soldiers. According to a projected society transition and military reform, the wagon will be attached to a composition in which all pensioners of the Republic of Serbia are on a blind track until they die out as a social category. There's a lot of this, not to read all of this, I think it's a little bit of an interest, but people are looking for us in the end. "We ask you to correct the proposed text of the law on the Serbian Army and on Serbia's defence and leave the provisions of the laws that are put out of force, which protect our acquired rights from pension, disability and social security. You are well aware that under the Charter of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, which is signed by the Republic of Serbia, the denial of acquired rights is considered a violation of human rights and is then within the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg. Let the Government of the Republic of Serbia put aside all the sublegal acts adopted by the Serbian-Montenegro resolute ministers, with the social group of military pensioners, and in particular the sub-office, put on a begging stick, the 2004-2005 regulations and former military minister Davinic's decision, which suspends individual administrative acts of the competent authority for those military pensioners from 1 August 2004. In particular, we stress the demeaning regulation of 2005, which refers to professional subordinates and pensioners. As a priority, we ask that you take care of all the military homeless, we ask that a special law be passed which will allow the Republic of Serbia to take over, as a public debt, all the unpaid salaries of professional soldiers, military pensioners and civilians at the service in Serbia from 2000 to today, in a similar manner that has been done in PIO. ''Because of all this, I believe that there should be this association of citizens and that it should be supported by the Ministry of Defence, not to be brakes, but to find common language, in order to enable all those who deserve it, to fulfill all that is required of them, to enjoy their pension with their family, in health. When I'm out, so I don't take my word for it again, I'll make a few more remarks about the defense law. I believe that the Serbian Army has not come into such an unenviable position since yesterday. Sunavrath has been on the move since 1992, but its contribution to this situation has also been given by the latest reorganisations that are under way. I tried to remember whose decision this reorganisation was made, or whether it was done, but I could not realize that such decisions were made in this assembly or in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Whether or not these decisions were ordered or sufflified to make them, I don't know, but certainly citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should know that. It must not be allowed to do anything illegal, especially in the country's defence sector. Last year, someone disbanded the Newsad Corps. Why, when soldiers say he was one of the best operating forces in Europe and the whole people believed in this Corps? The Corps itself has given us great security. I am convinced that units in Vojvodina, especially in the war, cannot be successfully commanded from Nis. With the latest reform, about 20 barracks and a large number of other facilities and land properties remained empty in Vojvodina. They fail, and many elders are still homeless. As far as I'm concerned, the most dangerous thing about the Army is the retirement of the best officers, in the best working years, and the real professionals. Why were they forced into retirement? Maybe they didn't want to party to both? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13099	The Rules of Procedure are advertised by Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226, I'll be very brief. I ask for an explanation from Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Minister of Finance, Prime Minister. The most recent story in Serbia today is the story of Kosovo and Metohija. On several occasions, I have stressed that those who exercise power in Kosovo and Metohija on behalf of Serbia do so by turning ordinary citizens into second-class citizens. I was approached by a group of employees, a group of employees of the Cosmet Transport Company. It's a company that used to have a seat in southern Mitrovica, after the war they moved to northern Mitrovica. She had 170 workers. They restored the work until two years ago, when a man came to the head of the company who, by the way, was an MP in this assembly, not to mention the name, changed the party colors. He was then deputy minister of traffic in the government of Kosovo and Metohija, he was president of Zubin Potok municipality, and he received a donation, so he formed his transport company "Colasin Transport", so all the lines held by "Cosmet Transport", which were profitable, among other things, and transferred the students to his private company. The company "Cosmet Transport" practically ran out of work, so he didn't pay the rates for four buses that were taken on the lease, although they were left to pay only three more wars, so the creditor took those four buses and then the company was brought into complete collapse. Nine months' wages have not been paid to the workers. The goal is for Cosmet Transport to be fully atrophy, which is where it succeeded. The company has practically stopped working, people have nothing to live on, they're on the verge of existence. They intend, as they write in this memo, to move everyone out of Kosovo and Metohija, to find some haven for themselves in Shumadia because they say there will probably be a piece of the project, because of those who manage such an evil, in the name of this government and of this government, are going to do in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13101	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. The People's MP Željko Vasiljevic has his word on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I'd like to say, since Mr. Secretary is gone, we'll wait for him to return, I have a text for him here, but I'd like to say that VMA is a dream facility for wartime military people. It's probably a unique case in the world that wartime military disabled people who weren't on professional service in JNA, or in some other army that was in this country, can't be treated on VMA even though they were received and brought there by helicopters, even though they were operated there, they had their medical records, they know their injuries best. However, the PIO Fund's committees for six or seven years have not allowed treatment on VMA, except in extreme cases, and this can be counted on the fingers of one hand. Now I'd like to move on to the amendment. Indeed, Ms. Verica Radeta has asked a good question, what are the organisations and what are the associations of citizens who will be financed under this member of the law from the defence budget? I have to tell you, for 10 years I've been at the head of the Association of War Forces Serbia and, except for one time, when we got something from the General Staff of the Army, it was then called the Yugoslav Army, we didn't get much help from the Army, especially not from the Ministry. I don't know what it means -- "activities in the area of importance for defence." Will these organizations and associations train soldiers? Will these associations, I don't know, carry out any professional work and train soldiers in some extremely professional areas? Really, I can't figure out what these are and what organizations are, when you certainly didn't mean the organization of the Association of Fighters, when you certainly didn't mean the organization of the Association of Military Disabilities, because you don't need them anymore. Even though we were at war, going as bakers, butchers, in the Army, doing everything, as well as professional soldiers, our elders, reserve military officers, left their professional occupations and came to war and died there, we became not citizens of the second order, but of the sixth order, in the care of this country. Now, indeed, we don't know what these organizations are, if they're not these organizations that I've listed, which in every normal country should be organisations of particular interest to the state, because they gather those people who are for every country that seriously thinks about themselves, about their future, about their defense. Really, I don't understand what organizations they are. What is the relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the organizations of this type, which, in my opinion, should be, if this member of the law remains, given that you have most, will surely remain, funded if it is not the General and Admiral Club? If they're not such organizations, then I really don't know what they're supposed to be. What your relationship with these organizations is clearly seen from that gesture, when you took three offices from the General and Admiral Club in the House of the Army, we now say, Serbia. It is not clear to me how you have dared to take them and to throw out an association of citizens from a task that is illegally managed by the Serbian Army. They shall be managed by having their own boards of directors, who shall collect revenue from those loans and shall give that revenue to those to whom the duties are intended. When did one of the warriors, whose home was left in charge, receive one dinar from the one who manages the task? Never received a single dinar or any other help from the Serbian Army. To make the evil bigger, the colonel in charge of this issue directed them to another post, the House of War Disableds, located in the Sava Square. My lords, this is the House of War invalids, and this is the House of Warriors, built by the means of the First World War warriors between the two wars. I don't understand how you have such a relationship with an asset that isn't yours and that you don't use the way you should. The importance of the association that I've been telling you about is great, and they are, indeed, doing a job of importance for the country's defence, although you don't think they are, I can show you the record we received from the Department of Defense, the Department of Human Resources. Now I'm going to tell you what kind of relationship you have with wartime military people and those kinds of associations. On 27 August 2007, the Association of Military Disabilities addressed the minister for the appointment of a meeting, with seven topics concerning people who were killed doing their military duty. The meeting was held on 30 October, gentlemen. It took you more than two months to prepare for this meeting. To make evil bigger, after two months, the meeting was not with the minister, which we insisted on, but with Deputy Minister of Human Resources Assistant Dr Bojan D. Dimitrijevic. As a result of the minister's not present at the meeting, many questions have been answered that in some future time the ministry will consider the possibilities, that he will talk to the minister and see if there is anything that can be done on these issues and whether these issues can be resolved. I only mention one of these seven issues, otherwise, was the employment of families of the dead and families of the heavy wartime disabled, as a priority, in the ministry, to address the housing needs of the heavy military disabled, which should, as a priority, resolve their housing issues, and it is 37 people in Serbia. Gentlemen, the war is over, i.e. the NATO pact bombing ended eight years ago, and among these are some officers whose housing issue should be resolved by priority, which died in 1992 and 1993. So they haven't solved their housing problem in 15 years. Seven of them have no solution to the housing problem, and on the list are priorities and are being resolved outside the other lists. It was answered that you had no means, that you could not find the funds, etc., although the representatives of the Association told you at that meeting, made it clear how many apartments owned by the Serbian Army are empty, no one is moving in. Does that mean you don't know what your empty apartments are? I want to believe that you don't know, because if you do, and you don't assign those apartments, then you have a bad intention, and that would be very dangerous for society. I will leave you with a list of nine apartments owned by the Army, which are empty, in the hope that you will assign these apartments to at least these seven heavy military disabled, professional soldiers, to solve their housing problem after nine years, because you have been obliged to do so so so far. I would also like to tell you that, as the Association, we have seriously approached this law, the proposals you have made, and at that meeting on 30.10, we have suggested that a provision be introduced into the draft of the Military Act to give priority to employment in the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army has members of families of wartime military disabled people. It's the Department of Defense, this member, just to say. I understand you're in a hurry, but if you do this, I'll tell you I'll stay longer. Don't do that, there's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13103	Mr Vasiljevic, concentrate on the report. I ask the MPs to let the speaker finish his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13104	I really don't understand you. So, I just wanted to tell you that we suggested that it be included and Lieutenant Colonel Trandafilovic replied that it was covered by the draft law, however, on the Committee on Security and on the Report of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments, it was found that you did not accept it. This means that someone has abused their function and deceived the representatives of the Association of Military Disabilities. In the meantime, I received this debate, a question from the Alliance of Reserve Military Elders from Negotina, that the legislators of this law answer which are the faiths that prohibit the use of weapons, because they say they do not know any religion that prohibits it. I'll be correct, although you didn't deserve it, so I'll cut short and leave one letter to the minister, as a contribution to the debate two days ago, when I told him that he was giving statements that the military would not, in the event of Kosovo's declaration of independence, defend the KIM and the Serb people, and he replied to me decades ago that he never said that, that he only said that the recruits would not go to defend Kosovo, which is certainly a lie. I give him one text in which the bishop of Rasko-Prizren Artemia says -- statements by Serbian President, Minister Jeremic and Minister Sutanovac that Serbia will not defend KIM with the military is a true betrayal. They are ordering Shiptar extremists and the international community – take KIM for us, we will not intervene. So much to tell Mr. Sutanovac, I learned from this text that he said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13105	On the amendment, Ambassador Srdjan Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13106	Just a few notes. Indeed, I can understand the representative of the SRS, for which reasons this amendment has been submitted, because in the NGO we have a very bad situation. We had a situation that a lot of money was coming, that it was being abused in this sector. A large number of NGOs exist solely because they would be their own purpose and a large number of NGOs, instead of helping to solve the state problems, bringing confusion, in fact, to the benefit of the whole process. However, if we are talking about two things, that it is necessary to carry out civilian control and that the VMA should also be treated by civilians, and I think that one and the other matter is important, that there should be civilian control of the military, that VMA should be treated by these same civilians, then it is not far from that logic that certain NGOs can engage in this area. I view the SRS' amendment as the most serious warning to both the Ministry of Defence and the Republic Government itself to say that clearer criteria must be defined, that clear policy must be defined in this direction, in which way the Ministry of Defence, which is defined, will eventually finance certain activities of NGOs. In that sense, I'm just going to mention that I can imagine that there is an Association of Emergency Military Officers, that there is a Association of Military Disabilities, or the Association of War Participants, and that in this situation there is a logic that both they and some other NGOs are in a certain programme relationship with the Ministry of Defense. I agree with your arguments that this should be done very restrictively, that the government must define clear criteria and that in the budget to be adopted in the Serbian Parliament, it must clearly define the position that goes towards NGOs. Otherwise, it's possible to do. I don't need to, because there's a bad situation in one area, and I'm sure it's bad in the NGO, because of this bad situation, let's rule out anything, possibly, good things that can happen in the future. I think a lot of good things can happen in the future and that this member should be understood in that direction, and I see the SRS amendment as the most serious warning. Surely it should be warned that once we have to, when it comes to the NGO, define things clearly, what is done and what is the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13107	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 88th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13108	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Sreto Peric knew that you would chair and he told me to tell you that he has the pleasure to stay in Loznica tonight, in the center of Loznica County, whose president, and that on behalf of the SRS, along with the other participants, speaks in a crowded hall in Loznica, at the promotion of the book of Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandić". I wish them a lot of success in the promotion. I know it will be as successful as the one in Kragujevac, who was on Saturday, in a crowded hall of the House of Unions. Every day in Serbia, we hold the promotion of this book, the capital work of Dr. Seselj, which rightly reflects the true nature of The Hague casamat, false witnesses, a false indictment. I call on all citizens to come to the SO room tomorrow in Chačka, at 18 o'clock, to promote the book, where I, along with my colleagues, will participate. As far as this amendment is concerned, it's good to have you back, Mr. Sutanovac, this is a very serious question. I would have given up the debate in some part of it if you hadn't come back, because I have specific questions for you, as I have all day today, that is, one concrete proposal to answer me immediately. This member, to whom the amendment was submitted by counterpart Sreto Peric, regulates the declaration of war or emergency in the country. The state of emergency in Serbia, throughout its territory, was counter-constitutionally introduced on 12 March 2003. It was a situation of incredible powerlessness, dictatorship, in a country where every citizen of Serbia was terrified of his right, every MP, every man, as well as over 11,000 people who were brought in without any court decision, without the possibility of having their own lawyer, in the famous "Sabbe" action. Later came the second part, Perorez, or what was called, and it turned out, based on work, post-festum, our defence and security committee, and based on the report of the subcommittee, in which he participated, as a representative of the SRS, colleague Petar Jojic, that almost every arrest was illegal, which is the very fact that nearly 12,000 people were brought in, and that only a few of them were sentenced to some symbolic punishments, except for members of your Zemun and Surcin clan, your friends from the 5th October coup. Then the state of Serbia, and the case came to the International Court in Strasbourg, entered an amazing experiment, which must never happen in Serbia again. Therefore, the attention given by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is important, and that is exactly what declaration of war or emergency is all about. So, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is exclusively the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. She decides on war and peace and declares war and emergency. Since you and the provisions of the Constitution, in turn, prescribed, as well as this article 88 in the defense law, we have said that it is legally illogical, inconclusive, that some members are absolutely superfluous, some of them are in this law, and they should be in the one we're going to discuss later, in the military law, I would like to deal with this other part of the issue, to try and forget, although we can't, because the epilogue of all that people filed a lawsuit against the state for illegal arrest, for all that they suffered, because of the incredible terror carried out by DOS, headed by the Democratic Party. In our southern province, Mr. Sutanovac, it's not peace, it's not safe. There's no war. He was reportedly ended by Resolution 1244 and the Kumanovski Agreement, after 78 days of NATO's unfeeling aggression of the pact against our country and our people. When a military-technical agreement was signed on 9 June 1999, I must remind you again that in this room only the SRS was against the Kumanovo Agreement, military-technical, and against the Resolution. But Resolution is now the only way, the only straw of salvation to defend our right to our eternal earth. When the agreement was signed, Mr. Sutanovac, you were not even a national MP yet, there was later that October 5th coup, so you were one of the carried out by the revolution among 176 MPs, some things were to begin to happen. The time has passed, you have not even dreamed, but, behold, you have been hit by such a thing, although on short notice, to become defence minister, but in 2001, a commission for the co-operation of Serbia's military and the authorities of the MUP and KFOR forces were to be educated and the work of the commission was to be monitored. Since the land's security zone was later defined, it is again at the expense of Serbia, since rights and obligations have been defined along the so-called so-called so-called security zone. Administrative lines, you now owe us an answer to the question of what happened during all this time, because you are the heir and Boris Tadic, and that Radojevic, and Krapovic, and Davinic, within these seven years? What condition have you found as defence minister and what has Mr Popovic, Colonel, Commissioner for Implementation of the Agreement, informed you the last days? If you have that knowledge, you must urgently, Mr. Sutanovac, come. It's impossible to ask for it tomorrow, but here, on Monday, because on Monday, it's "D", or it could be, when some will dare or fail to do something against the state of Serbia and our territorial integrity. I now suggest, Minister, that you leave first thing tomorrow to make that report and agree with Mr. Ivica Dacic, who is chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, and come before the National Assembly on Monday with that report. It's the only way we can know what rights the Serbian Army has now. The military-technical agreement for me, as a MP, for every Serbian radical here, for every citizen, is a dead letter on paper. Because Mr. Dragan Todorovic was 5 years old, or 6 years old, correct me if I am wrong, Mr. Todorovic, a member of the Federal Assembly's Defence and Security Committee, and then the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, and they never had a comprehensive report on what our army should do. You know very well, Mr. Minister, that only KFOR helicopters can fly along the administrative line right now. Our army can't do anything. We're up to the line of that so-called. demarcation. What do we do next? Did you, given that you took over the ministerial post at the moment when that disastrous plan of Marty Ahtisaari came to kidnap us from Kosovo and Metohija, went to work, because you have the right to initiate the annex of this military-technical agreement on the presence of thousands of soldiers and officers of our army, or the Ministry of the Interior? Remember, you were the vice president of the Defense and Security Committee, March 17th, when he was in the so-called The blue salon came Boris Tadic, as the then defence minister. He showed up and said he didn't have that authority and that he couldn't ask KFOR himself, and you see that this new villain came in, saying that we biologically, all Serbs, should die, disappear, disappear, he said, "I am at this point, and he came from Slovakia where he was with his colleague, then the defence minister, can't ask them for it, because there's no place in the military-technical agreement that we can look for it, except in certain cases. DOS's government for the past seven years, and you, here's the minister for how many months, have never insisted on implementation until the end of that agreement, or, if you asked for it, what was the answer? We asked that question last week. Is everything all right? Yes. I see my colleague is listening to me very carefully. Isn't that right, colleague Kolundji? Yeah. We asked that question last week, but we got the answer that he never followed such a request from us. You have to understand us. You're a civilian at the post of Secretary of Defense. What do the operatives tell you, Mr. Colonel Popovic, the general staff, and when are we gonna get that report? In case, God forbid, what America and certain Western forces are planning doesn't happen to us well. You are irresponsible, Mr Sutanovac, when you were with your separatists in Podgorica on November 20th, with Rocen and other companies and Filip Vujanovic -- you do not believe that in the event of individual recognition of Kosovo and Metohija independence by a country in Belgrade will take such measures to end diplomatic relations. Who gave you the right? You said it wasn't good for Serbs or Albanians. Who gave you the right, Mr. Shutanovac, to say that? Is that the position of the Serbian government, is that the position of the negotiating team? Yesterday, he was Minister Vuk Jeremic and said it was one of the answers of the government of the Republic of Serbia and officials from Belgrade, and you said something else entirely. Tell us, are you ready to come Monday? By what time will you be at your father-in-law's concert on the 10th evening, where it is already being organised, to sing and to rejoice on the day when it decides on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, so as you disintegrate and wake up from that hangover, come to the Assembly and bring us a report on the co-operation of the military and the MUP with the forces of the occupation KFOR authorities in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13109	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Milorad Krstin, from the city: I give up. The remaining time for the SRS is three minutes, for this amendment. Thank you. Here you go. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that this amendment has its own logic, because it is indeed an unsettled provision of Article 1 88 - a joint proposal for the declaration of war or emergency that is determined on the basis of an assessment of the risks and threats to the security of the Republic and its citizens. Semanticly, it's missing whose joint proposal. I don't know if it's supposed to be the Minister and Chief of Staff, but obviously, there's something missing in this attitude. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: There is in the second provision.) That's just a coincidence. In order for the norm to be complete, it seems to me that there is something missing. Missed, Mr. Minister, who makes the assessment, that part is missing. It can be concluded by deduction, but it's missing. Since we heard a war cry from the prime minister's advisor yesterday and as he approaches, apparently, that day of 'D', when it comes to the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, my question is simple, because it is something that is predictable. Yesterday we heard the attitudes of great forces, like the United States and Great Britain, they already said that the only basis for Ahtisaari's plan, so last night, indeed, it acted strangely on the RTS statement by the foreign minister. You have the official position of Great Britain, and then the Serbian Foreign Minister tells what he said to the British Foreign Minister. Let's hear what the U.K. Foreign Minister said. I can wish the Seattle Islands belonged to Serbia, but who's asking me that? So my question is simple -- if it is declared and recognised by the great powers of independence of Kosovo and Metohija, will war and emergency be declared in Serbia, as it is announced by Mr Simic in his statement yesterday? If they announce it, then let them lead, let them be their children on the front line, not to play with other people's children's lives. Serbia needs children's laughter, the joy of life, diapers, not fresh harms and black banners. That's what we saw. Okay, if they want to fight, those great heroes, warriors, heroes, ahead, on the front line, with their children, not with other people's children. King Peter and King Alexander led the army. There's another question coming out of this. If this occurs, or if an emergency is declared in part of the territory, then it is logical to be the part that is gravitating towards Kosovo and Metohija. My question is – how will possible mobilization take place in Niška, Rasinski, Jablanic, especially in Toplička County? Those reserves will never take up arms again. They are demoralized, deceived, discouraged, deceived, cut off, disappointed, so you need to look the truth in the eye. To take advantage of the opportunity, since there's always a question of what our military technique is, what our weapons are, to ask a question of a minister. A year ago, Mladjan Dinkic had to be pulled from the MiG 21 cockpit, and he said he would personally advocate that the MiG 21s were being remounted, so I remember that video well, or 29 anyway. It's supposed to be four million remonts of these MiGs. What's on that plan, did Dinkic give the money, did the MiGs remount, how many ready-to-be planes, those that Dinkic remounted? Because that's what we've been watching. So the government needs to keep its promises. I remember still getting him out of that cockpit. I think you should answer that question. One more. A moment ago, when I mentioned the director of Cosmet Transport, who managed to destroy this company, I forgot to say his name, and he used to be in the SPS, no more, he changed the party colors. Ask which parties are members today. He was an SPS MP, his has been Vulovic Srdjan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13111	Thank you. We move on to the next amendment, to Article 105. I'm sorry, of course, you still have time for the previous amendment. [[elevator in the O.R.]] The word has the head of SRS MP Tomislav Nikolic, four more minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really wouldn't have come out if I didn't have one big dilemma about what the billmaker wanted for the members of 87 and 88. The bill, which he introduced to the National Assembly, the obligation to make its right to declare war or emergency status only if it receives a proposal, a joint proposal by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, and they can only propose it to the Assembly if they receive a proposal from the defence minister, which can be proposed by the Prime Minister and the President of the State only if the country is assessed as being threatened, as it is known in which cases the state of emergency is imposed. So, is there any right, under this law, that the National Assembly should introduce a state of emergency if it has not received a joint proposal from the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic? If you tell me – there is no, strictly interpreting the law, I ask you – and who can limit the rights of the National Assembly, any senseless proposal to be given to the National Assembly? What happens if we meet here, declare by the Constitution an emergency, and we don't get a proposal from the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, and that, be careful, is a joint proposal? That means they both have to think the same thing. In this case, they don't think the same thing, it's obvious -- the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic don't feel the same way, according to the political parties they represent. The Prime Minister is very close to thinking there will be an emergency in the country in the event of self-proclaiming independence. The president of the Republic is convinced that nothing bad will happen and thinks the president of the assembly will call elections for the president of the Republic. Why is the National Assembly hostage to the joint proposal of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister? Then why don't they declare themselves a war and emergency? Let's change the Constitution and say - when the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic agree, a state of emergency or war is declared. It is much cleaner than to say – the National Assembly will be there somewhere on alert, so if a reasoned joint proposal arrives, and if it does not arrive, there is no war or emergency. These are difficult restrictions for the National Assembly. It's not the National Assembly of the Army, so to speak, under civil and democratic control. The National Assembly is self - control. It cannot, i.e. imagine that MP Petar Petrovic has the right to propose a law, and has no right to vote on the introduction of an emergency or a war until his right is granted by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic! You've gone too far, you've gone too far, really. A team before it really is unclear how the minister will draw up an evaluation. You know, to tell you the truth, Mr. Sutanovac, there's now an estimate in your hands -- will there be an emergency or a war? Are you prepared to take the risk and responsibility of making that assessment yourself, to propose it to the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, and to propose it to the National Assembly afterwards as a joint proposal? Everything comes from a defence minister who is a member of only one political party, a party that always has some additional motive for some reaction. I think you should have thought this through a little bit better. The constitution didn't predict this, or I don't know him well enough. This is a step from the Constitution of Serbia. These are the restrictions of the National Assembly that the Constitution did not want and gave no one the right to restrict the National Assembly. 126 MPs gathered, declared state of emergency. Will the Constitutional Court annul that decision? He won't. It should be annulled because it is not in accordance with the law, so the provisions are in force. 87th and 88th meaningless. One member could predict how the procedure would take place. It is necessary to provide for a procedure in all things, but the National Assembly, by some law, for you to foresee the procedure, so we have deleted members of you concerning the rights and responsibilities of the National Assembly. Don't make it a defense law, Army law. It was done by the Constitution of Serbia and another National Assembly, one law on itself, will eventually discuss some issues that have not been elaborated.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13113	The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 105. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to a concrete amendment, which I have submitted to Article 105, I would like to return to one principle issue, which has been repeatedly raised during this debate, but unfortunately, we have not received an answer to that question. I would ask the minister to try to give us an answer to this question by the end of the amendment debate. What exactly is this about? Reading the reasoning of this law, in chapter 2, in the part where reasons for the law being passed, are given two reasons why this law is being passed. The first and basic reason, as it stands here, for the adoption of this law is the need to regulate the defence system as the original jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, which is quite logical, normal and clear. The second reason is a particular reason, as stated here, it is contained in providing a legal framework for continuing the process of reforming the defence system, in line with the national defence strategy. Since it can be read in the light of the law, which we have seen earlier, in the text of the law, that the basic strategic documents – the strategy of the national security of the Republic of Serbia, the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the doctrine of the Serbian Army, and that Article 9 states that the National Assembly adopts the strategy of the defence of the Republic of Serbia, the national security strategy and the long-term plan of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia, I would ask the Minister to answer us, if not tonight, then until the end of this debate. On the basis of which strategy this law, i.e. the proposal, has been made, because it is said here that reform has started in the defence system and in the Serbian Army on the basis of a national defence strategy. Is it somewhere and, if it exists, why isn't it already in the Serbian Parliament, if it is also a legal obligation to adopt it in the Serbian Parliament? I'd like you to answer that question for the rest of this debate. As for the amendment itself to Article 105, in order for MPs who may not have read this, there are likely to be such, as well as the citizens of Serbia, to be clear what this is about, I will read Article 105. It's a bill of law. It refers to funding for defence, and that means for special purposes. ''Immobilized items for special purposes are considered: land, buildings, underground and underground facilities with accompanying infrastructure, which are used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian military for military purposes, as well as other immovable items in the military circle. '"That's attitude one. Second position: "The immovableities of the 1st position of this member are in the possession of the Republic of Serbia". Third position: ''The way of use, management, maintenance and records of fixed items under Article 1 is prescribed by the defence minister. ''I intervened with the amendment, precisely in this third position and suggested that, after the words'members', they add the words 'under the conditions prescribed by the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia'. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, this third position would read: "A way to use, manage, maintain and record immovable items under Article 1, under the conditions prescribed by the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, is prescribed by the defence minister." Simply, I don't know why the Government has not accepted this amendment, because it is one, perhaps, technical amendment, but I think it has its essence, which is contained in the Law on Assets in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, where it says that the Republic of Serbia has the means to use these funds, which are in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, must be given the consent of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. I thank and ask the Minister to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13115	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic to Article 111. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13116	The amendment of counterpart Arsic to Article 111 provides for the removal of Article 111, which provides for special fees for persons appointed, appointed, as well as for persons in office at the Ministry of Defence, who, on a proposal from the defence minister, can increase salaries up to 20% compared to other persons' salaries in other ministries. The Law on civil servants provides for certain salaries, although it also provides for the possibility that the Ministry of Defence, due to the specificity and activity of the ministry, can grant certain fees. However, we think it would be much better if people in the ministry did not stand out in this way, because there are similar ministries, such as the MUP, which do not have such a possibility. Given the difficult position of all employees of the Ministry of Defence, professional military personnel whose salaries are very low, who live in difficult conditions, who sleep in barracks, whose families are with them, who do not have the possibility that, like other people, live decently from their work, because their salaries are really low, we believe that they need to be dealt with systematically, rather than having a special act to solve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13117	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Security, submitted an amendment to Article 124. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. Since we've completed the search of the bill, I'm concluding the search in detail. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank everyone for the correctness. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW OF THE SRIBJE (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Rajko Baralić, Dusan Bajatović, Lidija Vukicevic, Dragoljub Simonović, Nikola Savivić, Sreto Perić, Zoran Despotović, Momir Marković, Milan Avramović, Vlado Sekulić, Goran Cvetanović, Zoran Antić, Aleksandar Martinović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Dragan Jolić, Tatomir Baković, Milosav Miličković, Radiša Ilic, Vjerica Radeta, Bojan Milovanovic, Ninonović, Nino Vasiljevic, Jovan Miljanović, Miletić, Miletić Mihajlović, Vidoje Jovanovic, Nenadja Čanak, Aleksandradar Jerkov, Aleksandar and Radranov and Radranov. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received reports from the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 146(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, dismissed as the untimely amendments of the National MPs of Neboja Rangelovic to the article. 2, 3, 4, 77 and 178, Free Maraš in Art. 4, 9, 17, 61 and 92 and Milena Stankovic in art. 13, 18, 73 and 144. It's a bill of law. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has made several amendments to Article 2, because we believe that amendments can be corrected by Article 2. Article 2 defines that the Serbian Army is an organised armed force that defends the country against armed threats outside and executes other missions and tasks, all in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law governing the use of force. The amendment of the SRS was defined to change Article 2 of Article 1 and read: "Serbian army is an organised armed force that defends sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia against armed threats outside and executes other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law that regulate the use of force. "This solution that is more precise than the government's proposal. The government has explained that the amendment does not accept the provision of Article 2(1). The draft legislation adopted by the Constitution, Article 139, which found that the Serbian Army defends the country against armed threats outside and executes other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, law and principles of international law governing the use of force. I think this amendment improves the position and jurisdiction of the Serbian Army, and it is good that it is defined here that the military only has the opportunity to defend the country from the armed threat on the outside, because if it were internally, it is difficult for the defence minister, Mr Sutanovac, to agree with the interior minister. In fact, even as a national MP, he gave a large number of arguments why the interior minister, Mr Jocic, needed to change, taxively listed many reasons why the interior minister should stay out of that position, although he is not at all bothered now, when he became defence minister, to sit together in the same government, yes, allegedly, co-operate. Probably, and because of these personal relationships, they try to translate it into law and have completely different bill proposals, which is not right, because we have to have functional laws, regardless of ouraffinities and ambitions, and not that how and from which political parties and options become ministers, we adapt the bill to its personality. I'll call back later, since we tried to change the amendments to the first, second and third position of the 2nd members, and we have arguments. I'm sure the minister will listen to all these amendments and not be passive all the time, but will actively answer our questions. I don't know what you're active in, but I think you need to be active in terms of work, to listen to our arguments, and to react on that basis. If we've said something that may not be true or true, this is the best chance to deny it. If you defend yourself with silence, which again is your right, it means that we are absolutely right, and we are safe, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that we are right.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13119	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13120	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Cvetanovic has just said the content of our amendment to this Article 2. I think the same amendment, or almost the same, was submitted by the SPS Parliamentary Group. It is, in fact, a solution that has existed so far in the Military Act and we think that it is more comprehensive, more comprehensive and more adequate as the definition of the Army. The promoter literally just prescribed that constitutional solution. We have not reduced anything to our solution as far as the Constitution is concerned, but we have further explained the military's purpose. I must say, from the definition set out in the bill, it can be concluded that the Serbian Army should not react in the event of a breach of Serbia's integrity and sovereignty within Serbia. I ask the defence minister now to tell us that the Serbian Army will react in the event of a riot, to launch some military actions in Kosovo and Metohija, which are motivated by, exactly, the detachment of the territory, by violating our sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. The definition, or solution that we have offered our amendment, is precisely giving the Serbian Army the legal basis to react in this case. So, we said that the Serbian Army is an organized armed force that defends sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, and hence springs the jurisdiction of the Serbian Army to be used, to use in the event of a threat, the threat of sovereignty and integrity and the inside, and not just on the outside. I ask you to consider taking advantage of the right you have as minister and to accept the amendment at the session itself, during the debate. We didn't hurt the Constitution here, we just figured out the military's jurisdiction, its purpose, because there's a reasonable assumption that our territorial integrity could be compromised from within.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13121	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Rajko Baralic and Dusan Bajatovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from Ambassador Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13122	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the SPS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. A bill on the Serbian Army. Article 2 The proposal for a law on the Serbian Army contains three positions, and I will, because of the importance of this member of the law, read in detail how the whole article reads, and this issue is very important, given that it determines the position and jurisdiction of the Serbian Army. In the first position, the proposer says -- Serbia's army is an organised armed force that defends the country against armed endangerment outside and executes other missions and tasks, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and principles of international law that regulate the use of force. This attitude is literally the attitude of Article 139. The constitution, in fact, is overwritten. We don't question that. Since we have objections to each of the three positions, I'm going to stick to this attitude right now. We felt that this position should be read like this - Serbia's army is an organised armed force that defends sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia from the armed threat outside and executes other missions and tasks, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the principles of international law governing the use of force. What makes us think that this is more precise, and essentially related to the development of the constitutional provision? If we look at the Constitution, since we find the foothold for these proposals in the Constitution, let's say, Article 97. The constitution says - the Republic regulates and provides: 1) sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia etc. What does it mean to ensure Serbia's sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security? This means that the Republic of Serbia can provide sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security in a number of ways, politically, diplomatically, legally, economically, not to count further. But we believe that the Republic of Serbia, not -- can, but must defend everything I have stated from the armed threat on the outside. So that you don't fool around, because you often fool around about how we call for war, that's not true. We want peace. It's not a question. Here's the question - if sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, is not threatened, is it threatened today, if it's armed on the outside, will the Army defend it? Mr. Minister, direct question. Not this - we want war, we don't want war, it depends on how good it is. Who loves war, who wants war? Give me that. Here is the second question - will the military defend Serbia's independence, territorial integrity, if they are armed outside? The question is for you, I expect a direct answer -- what will the minister who, in the name of his ministry, has words of defence say. So, we don't touch the constitutional provision, we're not looking for anything outside the Constitution, but we think it's more comprehensive and more precise to commit the military to what, otherwise, stands in the Constitution. Besides, I think it's in article 114. The constitution of Serbia, which the President of the Republic is taking, is said to be - all forces will invest to preserve sovereignty, independence, etc. Sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity are nice words, not ugly words, which need to be run away from, but are binding and refer to responsibility. Let me get this straight. When it comes to the position of the 1st member, we ask that words be stated - sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security, noting, of armed endangerment on the outside. I know that these days is a very current issue for Kosovo. Isn't it a fear of such words being written, so that people don't get the impression that someone will defend this country, even though I think it's a bad message to the international public when someone says they won't defend it? In the meantime, it is quite logical for British Minister for Europe Murphy to say – we do not have a problem with Serbia. It is only he who does not say: it is not a threat to us; it is a fear of the Albanians, because they want to fight war; they want an armed rebellion, etc. That's the bad message. When we send a message – we will not defend it, and then they say – very well, we will step on it and say it – if you do not give us independence, we will do it through war. Once again, we are not calling for war, we are not looking for war, we have never asked for war, except for those who deceive it, but we are looking for a clear and precise answer – if sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity are threatened by the armed outside, will the Army defend the country? The position of the 2nd member is also very important...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13123	I'm sorry, I turned off your microphone. I thought you were done. You stopped at the seventh minute. You've got eight minutes left. I'm sorry. It's my fault. I pressed the wrong button. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13124	Article 2 of this article reads - the President of the Republic or the Minister of Defence, under the authority of the President of the Republic, may decide that the Serbian Army may provide assistance to the competent national authority, i.e. the organisation, the body of autonomous provinces and the body of units of local self-government, at their request, to protect the lives and safety of people and property, to protect the environment or for other reasons established by law. We don't touch the point. Aid should be provided whenever units of local self-government are found in such a situation. Here we are looking, at the very least, to clear up and get the exact answer. We believe the constitution is very precise and he says -- the president is in command of Serbia's military, in accordance with the law. In particular, I think Article 17. It's precisely what regulates it. We don't think he can pass that authority on to the Secretary of Defense. This is about using the Army. I'm not talking about command. I'm talking about using the Army. So we are not questioning the need to do so, we are merely questioning whether there is a constitutional basis for the President of the Republic to transfer those powers. We don't think so. A clear division is made that the command, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, is in the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic, and that the conduct of the defence policy and enforcement of the republics' laws is within the authority of the Government, or the Ministry of Defence. The position of the 3rd member, which we also consider important, says - the use of the Serbian Army beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia is regulated by law. Let's see what the Constitution says. In Article 140, the Constitution says - Serbia's army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What kind of law is this? If the law was necessary, then it's the military law. The constitution has already said, in Article 140, that the military can be used outside Serbia's borders, but -- exclusively, or only after the National Assembly's decision. What kind of law is that supposed to be now? That is why we felt that this provision should stand and another position should be added behind it, which says - the decision of the 3rd member's position contains the decision-making procedure, the way in which the decision-making, the proposing, the tasks to be carried out by the units and the commanding orders of the army outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and the commanding system. Maybe there's something else. It would be the proper application of the Constitution when it comes to the use of the army beyond our borders. That is why we believe it is not correct that the law provides a provision that will be regulated by law, although the Constitution does not require it, the Constitution just says that it cannot do so without the Parliament's decision. It could be elaborated on how that decision would look, who would suggest it, how to adopt it, most of which, etc., precisely because of all of our mutual polemics, and certainly not standing anywhere, and there is no need for the law to say that the law would regulate it. So, to complete the story, Article 2 which speaks of the position and jurisdiction of the Serbian Army is a very important member, from which many provisions come later. I repeat, very briefly - we ask not to run away from the words: sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, security, because we speak only in the context of armed endangerment outside. We ask that it be clarified whether the President of the Republic can transfer his constitutional obligation to the authority that needs to implement the policy, and, thirdly, we ask that a constitutional provision be specified which makes it very clear that the military can be used, but only by the decision of the National Assembly, that the decision be precise, the procedure, the method of adoption. I repeat, there is no reason or need to define now by law that some other law will make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13125	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13126	On behalf of the SRS, we have submitted the amendments to Article 2(2) and (3). Article 2 defines that the President of the Republic, or the Minister of Defence, may, under the authority of the President of the Republic, decide that the Serbian Army, the competent national authority, the organisation, the body of the Autonomous Province and the body of the units of local self-government, at their request, provide assistance, for the protection of life and security, in particular, people and property, environmental protection, but also for other reasons established by law. I think the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 112 has precisely defined the position of president of Serbia. He prescribes only the president's authority to command Serbia's military, so the transfer of power to the defence minister is contrary to the Serbian Constitution. In Article 112, the president of Serbia is defined as representing the Republic of Serbia in the country and abroad, declaring the laws, in accordance with the Constitution, proposing to the National Assembly of Candidates for Prime Ministers, proposing to the National Assembly of Functions, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, repealing and order the ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, to receive letters of accreditation and recall from foreign diplomatic representatives, giving pardons and medals, performing other tasks of a certain Constitution, and, most importantly, what we call upon, is that, in accordance with the law, the President of the Republic, he sets up, promotes and resolves the officers of the Army of Serbia. In addition, if we add the third position of this same member, that the use of the Serbian Army outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia is regulated by law, we should now have a new law and re-arrange the issue of the use of the Serbian Army, although a member of the 140th constitution clearly says that the Serbian Army can be used outside the border of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government's explanation of why the amendment is not accepted is: ''Article 2. The bill is not governed by the powers of command of the military, but by the relations of the military and the competent authorities with regard to providing assistance in order to protect the life and safety of people and property, environmental protection and for other reasons'. We all know that, first of all, the Army has a basic function, which is to defend the integrity and sovereignty of our country, thus providing assistance to protect people's lives and safety. It's completely synchronised. These are the primary effects, the primary objectives, which are followed by secondary targets, which you are calling for when the SRS amendment is rejected, as for the 3rd position, by a special law, you show that this was something urgent, that you quickly did, spotically, that you didn't have enough time to systemize all of this by one law and that we have a law that will last us a long period of time. Why do the SRS MPs insist that it is absolutely inappropriate for Serbia's president, in the current situation, to have someone else, by his authority, decide, and in this situation is the defence minister? At present, we have a situation that both the president of Serbia and the defence minister are from the same political party. In normal countries, it would be irrelevant who is from which political parties, because it is a priority to defend the integrity and sovereignty of our country, but if we know that there are already different views, opinions and arguments between the Prime Minister and the President of Serbia, between Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, then how can we function later, when Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, and, on the other hand, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac? Absolutely, different concepts, different ways, different visions. We're sure it's hard to synchronise. Here, I'm going to give you some more arguments, which is why, at least while the defence minister is Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, he's not going to be able to give us that kind of authority instead of the president of Serbia. I have here an official document from the ministry -- the NATO Directorate General and Defence Affairs, the NATO Directorate. There is, among other things, a review of other activities in Serbia and NATO's co-operation. Our minister is, in this way, full of energy, pushing for NATO, regardless of two-thirds of Serbian citizens against Serbia's entry into NATO; he is not interested in representing Serbian citizens, has a vision, is enough that he visited NATO headquarters several times and now considers it the only solution to the security of all Serbian citizens. The official report defined that, in addition to the Agreement establishing air routes through the SRJ territory for the purposes of the NATO mission, it was signed on December 2002, with NATO, as well as an agreement on a transit arrangement to support peace operations. It was ratified in November 2005. The final phase of agreeing additional technical arrangements with this agreement is under way, with the signing of which conditions will be created for the start of a new application. The NATO Military Liaison Office in Belgrade opened in December 2006, with the task of monitoring the implementation of an agreement with NATO, above all, on transit arrangements to support peace operations, but also to encourage other activities and frameworks of NATO-Serbia co-operation. On 25 September 2007, NATO provided data on the locations of the cluster bombs remaining after the 1999 bombing. We thank the embassy, first of all, Norway, because that was their initiative. It was requested, diplomatically, from the Alliance, on 13 February 2007, to provide the right information on the exact locations. It was defined as 219 target locations, of which 155 are located in Kosovo and Metohija. It is then defined that KFOR has 16,000 troops in Kosovo and Metohija. Given the meaning, the title is "NATO - Kosovo and Metohija", the current state, the present time, 16,000 soldiers, or the possibility of stronger tensions during the status process, then what we know is defined here, but obviously, the minister knows, but the opposite of the citizens' interests behaves. There is no absolutely the same attitude of all 26 NATO members regarding Kosovo and Metohija. We share Greece, Slovakia, Spain and Romania, but regardless, the Alliance is trying to maintain unity on this issue, so it continues to overcome the position of support for Ahtisaari's proposal, which will continue after the start of a new cycle of negotiations on Kosovo's status and Metohija. And, most importantly, this is due to this story – that it is defined in NATO to overcome the view that Kosovo and Metohija's independence would have a long-term stabilizing effect on the region, which means that independent Kosovo and the NATO Metohija can enable paradise, economic prosperity, care for our families, the prosperity of our children, a fantastic vision. So, we have an official document, which I have presented to you, in which the NATO Directorate says it advocates independence for Kosovo and Metohija, and we have a defence minister who publicly, for this same speaker, says that, I am not interested in this alliance, I am not interested in what you think, NATO is not interested in the position of the SRS, the SPS or some other opposition parties, we are interested only in NATO. Then see if we have a minister, whether those who voted with the right to vote, whether the voice of the people passed on to the right person, and I am sure that Mr. Sutanovac defends only his own interests, is more interested in inviting generals to his father-in-law, Miroslav Ilic, to share free cards and to take care of it, rather than to defend the integrity and sovereignty of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13127	The word is made by Minister Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13128	Let me rephrase to Mr. Petronievich briefly. You know how, when it contests whether something is constitutional or not constitutional, I must say that the law has passed several committees dealing with legislation, both the Secretariat of the Government and the Committee on the Law of the Serbian Parliament. So I'm not the Supreme Judge here, nor am I the Constitutional Court judge to judge whether something is by the Constitution or not. If it is not under the Constitution, you appeal to the Constitutional Court and it will be settled. The second thing, when you say there's no right to transfer command, I absolutely agree. This is not a commanding act, this is one of the essential things your colleague was just talking about, in collaboration with the Serbian Army with local self-government. So let's hypothetically imagine a situation in which only the President of the Republic can approve that use. The President of the Republic is on a plane to Tokyo, which flies for nine hours, and you have floods in Prokuplje. As far as I'm concerned, this kind of obligation, as Minister, is not necessary to me, but all of you local self-government write to me, and you all expect help from the Secretary of Defense, or the Ministry of Defense, and you don't write to the President of the Republic. Accordingly, I would lower this decision to the commander of the brigade, to the lowest soldier, to the officer, to the officer, who can help local self-government at some point, not to wait for the president, through all channels, to inform him and, in the end, to say, now is the moment. With regard to the use of the Serbian Army outside the border of the Republic of Serbia, each use will require that one law be passed, for each individual. So, no law will be proposed for every use here, whether it will be, that's a question, but there will be no law to send an army out of the country, or you say, "Okay, we're sending an army out of the country, we've passed the law, and someone's sending the army out of the country." Each peacekeeping mission is a law for itself, out of the number of people, how long it lasts, who leaves, who is the shift, how much the funds are allocated, every peace mission is a law for itself. That's why it's particularly regulated by law. Again, the thing that makes it harder to work, if you're saying that I'm someone who represents that we should participate in peace operations, like Joseph Broz did, then I tie my hands to what I'm saying, people, Parliament needs to give a solution that will allow us to send the military into peace operations, in multinational operations, above all, the UN. So it's not a question of who obliges you, it's an obligation for us to wait for the law that we're going to work under. Without that, believe me, you can't go into peace operations. If Parliament won't bring it, it won't work. Only in this way can you adequately participate in operations.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13129	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13130	Mr. Minister, you're famous for answering questions that aren't asked, and you don't answer those you've been asked. I didn't ask you what you said. What I asked you, you didn't answer. To be clear, I didn't say there was no constitutional position of the first member, I said it was prescribed. So, it is a prescribed provision of the Constitution, but you haven't answered whether or not it's an obstacle to what we're looking for, again, to mention, I'm talking about sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity, if it's armed on the outside. Answer me that. Is there a problem with that? Secondly, of course you should help all municipalities, etc. That wasn't the question either. I mentioned at the outset, it's not a matter of contention, it's disputed whether you, as you say, when they address you, have an obligation to go before the president with a proposal for a decision that the president will make. Third question. You say the Constitution says the Assembly will make a decision on the use of units, i.e. armies outside Serbia. You say "law." I'm asking, how about this law? If it was necessary, why isn't this law, the military law? You say in this law that the law will be passed. So, just so we're clear, and you haven't answered the question, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13131	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13132	Mr. Minister, there is a big difference between the use of one country's units within the UN mandate, so I'm talking about 'blue helmets', these are separation forces, and the units involved in NATO's alliance, which are in combat action. So, JNA units, that's what you mentioned earlier when you were talking about Tito, the UN commands were being read. Golanska, Sinai, Iran, Iraq and others, and these are unarmed facts, and that difference is great. I wouldn't mind getting hired by anyone under the command of blue helmets, under the UN's supreme command, anywhere. We've been having a bit of a discussion here about the concept, and we're not going to agree on it, it doesn't matter, but it's a question of two concepts. Our concept is the one I'm talking about right now, your concept is different. So that difference is great. What a imbalance has been made today, and what one great world power, the United States, practically, has taken over everything that belongs to the UN, is another question, but it is our right to disagree with our unit's informal command in peace operations. That's the point, and everything else is a matter that we can discuss on some round table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13133	Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to return to the amendment of my colleague Cvetanovic, because he reacted to a very special situation in which the President of the Republic has explicit powers under Article 112. The constitution to issue a warrant to the military, or to empower the military to react under these specific conditions. This second view refers to helping civilians, Serbian citizens in specific situations. One of these specific situations occurs on several occasions, unfortunately in the area where Dr Goran Cvetanovic lives, the chairman of our party's district committee in Jablani County, and particularly in such situations, from 15 March to the end of April this and earlier years, were expressed in the area of AP Vojvodina, due to a large amount of ice after winter and the flood of the Danube and Tis rivers. Mr. Sutanovac tried to justify why this amendment should not be accepted by Dr. Goran Cvetanovic, so he cited that Tomislav Nikolic, the future president of Serbia, is on a plane to Tokyo, for example, on a plane to Beijing, Mr. Sutanovac, or for Moscow, and you can't get in touch with him, and people from the Office to fight this kind of elemental and other, don't God, disaster, can't wait for him. First, you are wrong and do not deceive the public and the MPs. So it doesn't work like that. You could have in the previous law, where this matter should not have been regulated, but you put it into the law, to accept the amendment of counterparts Miletic Mihajlovic from the SPS, which he wanted to regulate strictly, for mutual benefit, the relationship between units of local self-government, autonomous provinces, public enterprises with the military, first because the military would benefit from it, because rights and obligations would be regulated by special contracts. You, Mr. Minister, know very well that in the framework of the Ministry of Defence you have given a special task to your associates, I don't know, in particular, their names and last names, to engage in the making of legal acts that will define this matter, so that, in the right sense of the word, it should not have stood here to have the president transfer those powers to you, because it is strictly regulated as the President commands the military, according to the Law on President and under Article 112. The constitution, and here it comes from another situation. First, it would not be good for Serbia, nor for the Army, besides so many people there are, from the water industry, municipal enterprises, etc. We here have MPs who are headed by successful companies, like our young colleague Sasa Valjarevic, so one of the most successful municipal enterprises in Serbia, the Public Enterprise in Pozarevec, won the prize, and when something happens in Pozarevec, or in the nearby Gradit, he will not sit down, but will engage in the sector. Second, what about civil protection? So, the very intensity itself, you know very well, Mr. Sutanovac, at the making of this legislative proposal is that all the bodies of the local self-government unit, civil protection, and only then the military, which should be involved in the end. I really want to give full recognition, and there were 9,645 members of the Serbian Army who made a selfless contribution to defending citizens and the state from floods during the period I mentioned, with the equipment they had available, which is 290 field and 149 hunting vehicles. For every country, and for the Ministry of Defense and for the Army, this is a very important segment. Now I have a question for you. I've been asking questions all day, let's answer some questions, and let's not, perhaps at the end of the debate, we'll see, but I've worked really hard to prepare myself for this debate, in collaboration with the military members, with my acquaintances, friends, who are in pain of non-regulating in a comprehensive way of this matter, and also for the fact that I've been working for many years in the defence and security sector, as a member of the Committee, to clarify everything we can and to tell us how far you've come in this business. So, as far as this river fleet of the Yugoslav Army is concerned, we have to face the fact, here, today, December 6th, that it is in catastrophic condition. Now you'll tell me nicely, Mr. Sutanovac, when the sale of three ships to Republika Srpska was made, during the ministry, whether Boris Tadic, or Davinic, or those predecessors, and how did it go to Brcko District? Even our military analyst, Mr. Miroslav Lazanski, did a whole mini study on this, so that the Serbian Army does not treat the Danube as the main waterway. Because if we don't have these ships, if we've estranged from estranged, or sold in Republika Srpska, and stayed with something that, in the right sense of the word, we can't be proud, to say that for the pride of the Serbian Army, then how, if God forbid, an explosive is found in the Danube riverbed, anyone who reacts from the Army? It's a question of the threat and security of civilians and people living around here. So there are a lot of questions that you really need to start thinking about. In this law, this provision should not even stand, when this second position in Article 2 has already been written. Dr Cvetanovic reacted and said only the President of the Republic can do so, and your powers are already regulated by the previous law, the Ministry of Defence, and this law I expect you to appear with him soon. Because, if it's obvious, and it is, that the global climate is like that, and that, according to the experts' assessment, we're going to have to, and the inhabitants of the entire planet, to fight this kind of disaster, let's start doing it seriously, if you're able to do it, and I don't think you're going to, that we're going to act quickly and adopt those laws, that everyone in the country is going to commit, and not to think about whether you're going to find Tomislav Nikolic on a plane here and there, if there's a flood in the Jablani County. I am convinced that Mr Nikolic will use his constitutional powers in the best possible way, that at any moment he will provide Serbian citizens with the necessary assistance, in co-operation with the military, if necessary, but God forbid we have situations like we had. But given what kind of world we live in and what's going on, what all the troubles have happened to all of humanity, including us here, because of these atmospheric changes and global warming, it's obvious that we're going to have that kind of problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13135	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to the position of the third second member and I must say to the minister that it is necessary to take another look at this third position, because it is quite vague. If it is true that a special law will regulate any particular situation, it does not say in the third article. Look at the formulation - the use of the Serbian Army beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia is regulated by law. I believe, if they look at my colleagues, that most MPs would be convinced that it is a special law that is universal to all situations. Then this formulation is not adequate and it is necessary to complement what you said, if that is the case, unless you think a universal law is needed to define this area, the use of the army outside Serbia's territory. The MPs of the SRS were convinced that this is exactly what it is and it is necessary at least to look at the amendment, I have the impression that you haven't tried that either, which I have suggested, which in a clearer way defines what it says and in the Constitution, in Article 140. My amendment is in accordance with the Constitution – the use of the Serbian Army outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia is governed by the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is much clearer, that in no way do they ignore the National Assembly, well, I would say, it's in some way not demeaning, and that it's necessary to react when it comes to this attitude 3. I hope you find a way to get to the right formula, because if you look at the government's explanation, it's also a lot of confusion. It explains -- the amendment is not accepted, given that special legislation regulates the conditions, the way and the procedure for the participation of professional members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, based on the Constitution, of a special law to be proposed. This formulation does not show that it is a special law for every situation, and it is necessary to react either to the minister or to the ministry, because I am not sure whether you have agreed your vision with the government's position, whether you feel the same way as the Government, or if you have just tried to avoid the fact that the upcoming elections and this topic should have a clear view, that you have possibly assessed that defining the conditions for sending our army outside Serbia would have been a bad signal to voters. This is how you would try to leave it during the elections, I suppose, the election of the President of the Republic, because you assume that would be bad for your presidential candidate, Boris Tadic. I would ask you, on behalf of the MPs of the SRS, to sort of define it, because this way, I am convinced, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13137	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13138	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a good thing we're doing laws this important, I think, superficially. It is not good that a small number of MPs are here to discuss amendments that seem to me to be quite important and to be accepted. Apparently, the defence minister has a warrant not to accept anything that comes from the opposition, no matter how good it is. Obviously, given how many of these questions he's asked, how many NATO officers are sitting in our defence ministry. I have information that there are 14 of you out there and probably they're running politics and making all of this. To support that, the US Defence Co-operation Office in Belgrade opened in June this year. That's a statement from Chief of General Staff, General Ponos. I ask you, is there a Russian office of the same purpose? If it doesn't exist, why doesn't it exist, if we already want to be friends with each other? Let's go back to that first amendment we submitted to Article 2. You know about Bondsteel base in Kosovo and Metohija, US base, NATO base, you know how many soldiers are down there. Will their intervention represent aggression or outside intervention for you, or will you, in that case, be seated with your hands cut? To remind you, two days ago, NATO General, the NATO Force Commander for Europe said they are sending reinforcements to Kosovo and Metohija, that the number they already have down there is insufficient to maintain order in Kosovo and Metohija, but has underlined that these forces should enter Kosovo and Metohija not only to prevent the violence of Cypriot terrorists, but also to prevent a possible response of the Republic of Serbia to this violence. It is their basic function in Kosovo and Metohija, which is why they are coming. As for this amendment to Article 2(3), I ask you why you did not overwrite the Constitution here consistently, as well as in the first position of this member? Why didn't you write here that the use of the Serbian Army outside the borders is resolved by the National Assembly decision? That is what the Constitution says, and you write in the law – it is resolved by law. Second question. I would accept what you said when you said earlier, I would accept that somewhere in here, that every single action outside the borders will be passed a special law, but it does not appear in the text of the proposal, nor in the explanation. Why? Because you will deceive us and then, as you always do, so you will come here with a law that will be general, general law for any possible use of our army beyond the borders of the country, and then you will vote, give authority to the Minister of Defense, I don't know who, and then you will send our soldiers as you will, in your opinion, wherever those NATO mentors ask and seek.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13139	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Here you go. National MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13140	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think this amendment should be accepted. You know the DSS's position as to joining any military alliance, including NATO, so some of the things we've heard are hard to get through, at least in this assembly of the National Assembly. You shouldn't have that fear. The following should be said regarding this amendment. It is precisely defined by the Constitution to use the Serbian Army beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Each individual use of the army must pass through the National Assembly. It says in the Constitution, read it. As far as the law goes, it's about the laws of general character, because every signed agreement, when used by the military outside, has to go through the Assembly, to be ratified. It's a procedure and that's why it has to be written this way, and there will be no general law on the use of the Army outside, because it's defined by the Constitution. Only the National Assembly can decide to use our army in Somalia, or another African country. I'm not going to mention countries we certainly won't make a decision to send our soldiers to, where the interest of some world power is at stake or what has nothing to do with the right use of the Army in peace missions. It's not about the general law, it's always about signing an agreement. He must undergo ratification through the Assembly and therefore, in our view, the DSS's opinion, this is how the legal formulations should stand, and the use is not at all controversial. Each individual use must pass the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13141	National MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am now seeking, under Article 226. Rules of Procedure, notice, because we're getting a whole new explanation out of this. Mr. Minister, what exactly is it? What are you talking about, or what Mr. Shormaz is saying? If it is a ratification of the agreement, it has already been regulated by the Constitution that the Assembly has passed a law confirming the international agreement, etc., but the constitution has made it very clear that the military can only be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia by a decision of the Serbian Parliament. I'm asking you, are we talking about the same thing? We are one concept, and you were just talking about special laws for each of these actions. Now we hear it's a classic ratification agreement. Well, it couldn't have been that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13143	There's a word from MP Zdravko Topalovic. The rest of the SRS is still six minutes away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, here, for the sake of the public, I have to read Article 140 again. The constitution, which says "Serbian Army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Mr. Minister, I expect a very honest answer from you now. Namely, about not accepting this amendment and not respecting this third position of the law, I will say specifically what I mean. Serbia is a guarantee of peace, under the Dayton Agreement, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do you, by not accepting the amendment, want to, eventually, prevent the possibility of a decision being made in Parliament that our army, if necessary, reacts in Republika Srpska, if the rights of the Serb people are compromised, I mean biological survival? The same goes for the Republika Srpska Krajina, which is currently occupied, if again, God forbid, a Serb pogrom would happen. I think you consciously want to do this – to transfer the power from Parliament exclusively to your jurisdiction. Maybe that's funny and unserious to you. You've been defending yourself with silence all day, or you're clearly in a mood not to have a coalition partner in your hooligans.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13145	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic, as a replica, and then Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13146	Mr. Shormaz, the thing is quite simple. Article 140. The constitution says "Serbian Army can be used beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia only after the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the Law states: "The use of an army outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia is governed by law." I ask you, why didn't you prescribe the Constitution and nothing else? So it's a simple question. Secondly, find me a lawyer in Serbia who will interpret this position of your 3rd proposal in the way you interpret it or how you represent and explain it to us here – that this will be individual laws in each individual case. It doesn't stand anywhere. So, based on this, it follows simply, logically, that it is a general law, and the Constitution is talking about individual decisions for each individual use of the Army beyond our borders.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13147	There's a word from National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13148	It's not a Prime-Time now, Mr. Minister. It's always ten o'clock when you're not looking at the Assembly, but you're going somewhere, and at two o'clock, when you've seen the break, and at five, and at twelve, and by five o'clock in the morning, when you want to work. This is about the fact that you misread the Constitution, that a colleague of Shormaz Kostunica did not learn that. I'm sure Kostunica at least beat him, if he doesn't respect him, this text of the Constitution. Was he an expert in constitutional law? You've made it clear in this attitude 3 and don't distract us again. Come next time ready, Mr. Minister, to the session. You wrote well and this is the general law – the use of the Serbian Army outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia is governed by law. You were persuaded here by SRS and counterpart Petronijevic that this is not exactly the case and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be tasked with ratifying a series of such agreements, its role. So it's not about one general law, as it stands here. I don't know what you thought? You wrote it - it's governed by the law and that's the way it is. Mr. Sutanovac, I already asked you this morning, and I don't know when you'll have to go to the National Assembly. If you don't come with it, you'll break the Constitution, you'll have a new president of the Republic, and by then you can't do all that. You must come with the following laws, or agreements, as they will already be called, which arise from that presentation document, but we must consider them as the National Assembly. So these are agreements on the planning and revision process. What is this process of planning and revision? I'm not going to read to you here, because I'm avoiding that English version of what it looks like. It means using the Army. It is not about the use of the military, Mr. Sutanovac, that we are going and we are not going to war for anyone, nor to go to these and such peace missions, while we are being kidnapped by Kosovo and Metohija, but it is obvious that you have taken the obligation, you and Boris Tadic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to bring these documents. What's it going to be called, rather than law or agreement on the planning and audit process, right? You know what that document looks like, because they delivered it to you from the NATO Pact, you're working on it now, and he says he's establishing the basis for a normative arrangement. So it's one law, and who knows how many of them are gonna be in a row? So it's not just one, uh, as you wrote it. Forming and estimating strength and training for multinational training. First, let us see that, to come before the Assembly, whether we like it as a state, even though we have agreed, that is, you have agreed to join the Partnership for Peace. But when all the cards are open, let's see what this is about. Then, obligations and tasks stemming from this "Partnership for Peace" mechanism, the Republic of Serbia will consistently meet and see the contribution to the reform of its own defence system. If it's a reform of the defense system and if it's a special agreement, it has to be in the law here. They told us that clearly. They don't care if it goes to ratification in the National Assembly. They expect the Serbian Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent ministries, to do so in co-operation with them. It is true that this is why these NATO representatives are staying in our country, but it must come before the National Assembly, as the agreement came, was signed by Vuk Draskovic, in July 2005. Then it was kind of jagged, and only later did the dust rise. But after two or three months, the one, the individual law on the passage of NATO troops, it is called, came before the Federal Assembly's council, i.e. the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and it has been ratified. So it's just one. What about the Partnership Action Plan for the Construction of Defence Institutions? It's also military use. Is that a team of people who are going to work? Did you hear me, Mr. Schutanovac? Or you can explain, if I'm wrong. Then you will violate the Constitution, if we have to bring all this, all these agreements, this previous partnership action plan for the construction of the defence institutions and this one concerning the Partnership for Peace Trust Fund. Excuse me, do you want to hide how much money we get from the NATO Pact? They didn't give us that information. They said -- if you were here another day more, we would tell you how much NATO has defined this year for Serbia. There came a Slovenian, some Janšin failed territoryer, boasting about the size of the Slovenian army and taxing us for many countries of the Partnership for Peace. But he says -- since you're involved in the NATO Trust Fund only this year, I can't give you information right now. I'll try until the end of my working hours, right, my colleague Cvetanovic, and he didn't come up with that information. So all these agreements that arise from this document must come to ratification in the National Assembly. Just one, that you need a liaison officer, three people working, that's the use of the Army, that's not a civilian, do you agree, as well as all fellow MPs? We will have to, therefore, a series of such laws to ratify in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Tadic signed the SOFA agreement only with the Americans, but it must be signed by that general SOFA agreement that is expected of us, so security - all of it involves the military, not using the armies outside the border, in the sense that armed soldiers are going there and joining forces that lead, or we send soldiers to Darfur. We say, now we've sent them to get rid of the situation, and the question is, will he get rid of it? We've heard that NATO's are also fleeing from there at the end of March next year. NATO is going and will remain these so-called. The blue helmets, and you know, where they keep safety, how people pass. There are civil wars, massacres and genocides, as is already happening there. When they were in Republika Srpska, the moment they retreated, the Ustashas took action "Blash" and "Storm" on the unprotected Serbian people. So it's more of a law on the use of the Army, and I've just cited some of them. Make sure I insist on that. Shut up, Mr. Shormaz, as I speak, don't confuse me. I listened very carefully to you, and then go out and comment. So any agreement, or law, must be ratified. Then tell us, will you do it or will you not, or will you regulate the use of the Army by one general law, which may perhaps come before the Assembly? What kind of authority does the president have? Not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13149	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13150	Mr. Chairman, there are only three DSS deputies present in the room and until you have the vice president of the G17, you have not had any representatives of the G17. Is that support for this law? Until you came in, there were no G17 MPs. Is that support for this law? Do they show how much they respect the police and the minister who is authorized to defend the Serbian Army's bill? You can judge for yourself. As far as the SRS MPs are concerned, we don't have a problem working all the time. Rate for yourself, when you ask to extend the work, whether MPs who, above all, support the government of the Republic of Serbia deserve such an attitude by the opposition. The SRS also submitted an amendment to Article 4. Serbia's army is structurally divided into tribes and services. Genders and services are divided into species and species into specialties. Some of Serbia's armies are grouping together. The sights of the Serbian Army are: the Land Army, the Air Force and the PSC, though, if there was a minister present, as it was not, I would ask him if we really had an Air Force or if it was time, which, behold, we can only talk about. The President of the Republic determines the generations and services, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, who is not present. The defence minister determines the types and specialities of genders and services, on the proposal of the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, which we have, we better not have. The Serbia Army's organisational changes are realised in line with the provisions of the Long-term Plan for the Development of the Defence System of the Republic of Serbia and the Strategic Defence Review. With the amendment of Vjerica Radete, the SRS suggested that Article 4 of Article 6 should change and read as follows: 'Organization and mobilization changes of the Serbian Army are implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Defence Strategy, the Long-term Plan for Development of the Defence System of the Republic of Serbia and the Strategic Defence Review'. The amendment is more comprehensive, more complete, because the strategy is a fundamental principle, it is a basic strategic document, on which all other long-term strategic documents are adopted. The SRS has only suggested adding a defence strategy to the existing bill. The minister himself has also suggested that more than once, a national security strategy, a defence strategy, as well as a strategic defence review, is expected to be adopted in the coming period. The government's explanation of why the amendment is not accepted is that the organisational-mobilisation changes are procedural activities based on the planning documents, such as the Long-term Defence Development Plan and the Strategic Defence Review, and that the Defence Strategy is a strategic document which defines, among other things, the structure and functioning of the defence system as a whole, and not only the armies of Serbia. Since colleagues from the SRS have reported on the same amendment without the minister present, obviously there is no good will for these amendments of the SRS to be adopted, we will continue to explain other amendments in an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13151	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is unfortunate that Minister Sutanovac came with these laws before the National Assembly without Serbia having a national security strategy, a national defence strategy and an army. It was the basis, and for every member of the Military Academy, it's a question that can easily be answered, that the law comes out of such doctrinal documents. But they're not there, and they're not there because our army is systematically collapsing. That's what the people of the Army say, here, let me say, the observers are on the side, we're not politicians. We Serbian radicals believe that we are extremely responsible people when it comes to the Serbian Army and we have shown this countless times. After all, one of the most famous Serbian generals is Vice-President of the National Assembly, member of the party's most senior leadership, General Bozidar Delic. I expect him to return by tomorrow, after a brilliant testimony in favour of General Lazarevic's defence in The Hague, so tomorrow he will be able to engage himself, before this debate ends. So, such people, who have devoted their whole lives to the profession, are drawn up over the fact that we don't have military doctrine, that we don't have a national security strategy, when we've already got one law that, in a termological sense, is poorly arranged. He can tell his colleague Vlatko Ratkovic whatever he wants, but he can see, as a lawyer, that there are a lot of things that are illogical, legally unfounded, and so is this member. A colleague of the Verica Radeta, as one of the very good lawyers, a woman who has been working for years on the legislative activities of the National Assembly, giving her stamp on both committees, and through amendments and MPs, wanted to help the minister and his advisers with legal issues to make this better. This is how we get an entirely confusing member. Before that, the right to tell you, he read Dr. Cvetanović, doesn't mean anything. It's a provision from military textbooks, something that is known to each of you who served a military term. There's a land army, PSC, air force, strong philosophy. Let's ask the girls at primary school, and they know it, not boys. Since it is the invention of Minister Sutanovac and since it is a fantastic member, with this confusion at the end of which Radeta tried to correct, then this is a good opportunity, there is no minister in the hall again, let's see what the Serbian Army consists of today. So it's true that we have this land formation of the army, so let's see what's left of it. On June 5th, 2006, the army had 45,180 members, 11041 recruits, 11.994 civilians, and other officers, soldiers under contract. One of the distinguished colleagues asked why there aren't any of these from G17. Since Davinic, their thief, is not the head of the defence ministry, they no longer have any interest in the military. They tried Dinkic and the company to grab 300m, 400m euros, or dollars, and as our people would say, they were broken, i.e. The country and the military contract, they gave up on him in a hurry, by the way, this criminal, Davinic, and now they're not interested in the Army anymore. Ah, there you are, fellow Albianic, you're a top military strategist. I expect you to now engage in a debate on this amendment by your colleague Radeta and tell me your knowledge of the Land Army, the air force and the anti-aircraft defense. So, where was I? A plan has been put in place at the Ministry of Defence, with which the SRS does not agree. You remember that General Delic immediately alerted, in this new assembly's assembly, the entire public, that it was a disaster, the collapse of the military, our defence powers, what we have been doing as a country through the centuries as a tradition, that the army fell to the lowest possible branches with such formation forces. First of all, our national security has been questioned, because we have never attacked anyone, and here they hear all sorts of nonsense – we have been fighting, and we have lost wars. Where were we at war? We have defended ourselves and throughout history, Serbia has waged only defensive wars, never conquering. We had to defend our hometown. That's why I see your conscience and morale here telling you what a defense strategy will be like in that previous law. Why don't you stick to the letter of the Constitution? Why did you run away from that formulation? Why didn't you warn them, Mr. Ratkovic, but conscience and morality? That I now appeal to the conscience and morals of the Shutanovec, Tadic and Ponos?- I'm sorry. They, when they leave home, don't know some way where their heads are, did they bring what's called conscience and morality, and if they have them at all, that's a big question. As for the numerous states today, in a year's time, look, these are exact data, of 45,180 members, so I said how many were in civilian, how many recruits, today there are 27,000 people left. There's the men from the Department of Defense. And you, sir, who, by the way, are the city councilman. Are you a city councilman? Yes, it is. Do you know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? You can't be in the executive authority without being a city councilman. It's amazing how they didn't teach you first that you were supposed to resign there. Eight thousand soldiers, four thousand in units, four thousand in training centres, and the rest are professional members of the Army. What are we facing today? I didn't get an answer from Minister Sutanovec. If such a situation is with the administrative line with Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. in the Land Area of Security, if it is obvious that we lack an army, then the question arises, even though in the last or the previous month, thank God, a positive trend in the growth of those who want to go to military service, what is it that today should interfere with young recruits? How is it going to be called by the Secretary of Defense, or by the President of the Republic, or by such a Chief of Staff? It should be, I guess, honor and pride for every Serb and every other citizen, regardless of nationality, who recognises the state of Serbia and who knows that without it there is nothing to think normally about life and the future of his and other children. As for this many conditions today, unfortunately, it goes with far more restrictive measures in the military. The plan is that in 2010, the military is down to under 20,000 soldiers, which recruits, which is what those who are actively employed, is the condition of these NATO villains and they told us openly, even, last week. The question is, what is our goal, as states, that we turn to them, that is, you do it, and that we accept 'Partnership for Peace' when such strict and rigorous conditions are? Where is our alliance with those who can set different conditions for NATO, such as brotherly and friendly Russia? Earlier, someone asked me, I think, a colleague of Zlatan Jovanovic, where is the Russian Ministry of Defence's office or what is the co-operation with their defence attaché when it comes to such risky situations for our country? So, we disagree, and that's what NATO pacters want to design, that in 2015 we have between 0.2% and 0.4% of military members, according to the population. First, what do they take as the total number of inhabitants when they have already taken away Kosovo and Metohija? In fact, they think so. They count, in the NATO Pact, Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. Secondly, will the number of soldiers be, we disagree, we think it is small and that Serbia needs more, is it enough for the military budget to be 2.4% of Serbia's net social product, as long as it is in 2015? It's all some dreams, some fantasies, some inventions, and we could talk about all of this differently, and now we just have to based on the slow-minded statements of people who are operating on these planning documents. The Minister is silent, these associates of his have no right to say, and we do not have this document to which a colleague of Radeta is called. Now let's see what we stayed with in 2007. Number of people – 27,000. What do we have from the land army? Of these formation forces, we have four mechanized infantry brigades, one mixed artillery brigade, a special brigade and a guard brigade. That's this land section. From the Air Force and the PSC, they are made up of two air bases, 204th and 98th missile brigades, both the PSC and the Air Monitoring Centre, reporting and guidance. Where are the planes? Where are these MiGs? Someone mentioned them today, I think, on two occasions. There are five or five MiGs in Serbia. Two are on a remont in Russia. You see again, decades old, everything we have in the Army is Russian or it's about Russia. The factory of dedicated products in Kragujevac, which Tadic started to destroy, was defined, above all, in strategic co-operation with the Russian Federation and with some other countries with which we cannot even sign contracts. So, what do we have? We've got five MiGs of 29, two on the remont. They said in Russia, we believe in their seriousness when it comes to the military and everything, in general, that they will be returned to Serbia and remounted by the end of the year. The other two are due to be remounted by March 2008, and there is no money for this fifth. What about what's left in Montenegro and when will the separatists give it back to us? How many jets is "galeb 4", are those training planes, the carrying capacity of 1,800 kilograms, the rest of them in Montenegro, the Airport of the Doves or where? Yes, Mr Vasilevich, are you surprised that, as a woman, I know all of this? It's just that I'm interested in it, and I wanted to have a really serious discussion with the minister here. But he's gone, or he doesn't care. One plane here, the other there, what's on Montenegro? I was just telling you that three ships from the river fleet were sold to Republika Srpska, there to some private, and now they need to break the ice through the Danube trough, and we have nothing to talk about demining all these areas. You know, colleague Vasiljevic, everyone in this room knows that there's someone who knows how many more locations of minefields the villains left behind. We were told last week by Jan Petersen that he, as a mediator for NATO and the Yugoslav Army's connection, when we spoke in Brussels, had made the signing of a co-operation agreement and that 256 locations, of which 155 in Kosovo and Metohija, were demining. Now, let me ask you, and Minister, what's at Ponikve Airport, there's a colleague, Jovanovic, tell us what's under the concrete track at Ponikva Airport? It's easy to tell Ilich that he's banging things. He drinks one or two, goes on TV...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13153	Please, Miss Jovanovic, take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13154	He's talking about how it's about to become a civilian airport, so internationally, and man doesn't know there's a minefield and what's under one length, I don't know how many meters, and one side of the runway in the 'Ponikva'. It's all very serious stuff. You're playing with people's patience and, God forbid, with lives. To remember Paracino, what happened to us, or situations like that, who knows how many there are already. These are all serious things that there is obviously no one in Serbia's army to take care of. We went there and said – you have this Ponos, he is your NATO officer, to cooperate with you, but he has never commanded anything in his life, and, as Mr. Dragan Todorovic says, if someone attacked him, don't God, he would have hurt himself with a rifle, he wouldn't know how to handle it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13155	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? MP Bojan Milovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13156	My fellow MPs, Your Honor, me and my SPS colleagues have submitted a similar amendment. What I'm reporting for is an identical argument from the government for refusing two completely opposing amendments. A few findings. I don't see any reason why what was proposed by the Verse Amendment, the concept of a defence strategy, should be included in the SPS amendment, either in the Verice Radete amendment. Reading this law, it cannot be avoided from the finding that it fully reflects the desire, which is approximately, and the relationship to the Serbian Army since 5 October, and beyond, that the military itself has decreased by a number. Then let the alleged professionalization from which, through the amendments, we will explain ourselves, see no obligation to serve the military service professionally and be a condition and the possibility of someone engaging professionally in the military. Civilian part, including civil democratic control, read, above all – foreign control of our army. These are the basic principles and, of course, the possibility of hiring our army outside Serbia's borders. For a moment, it seemed to me that the Verice Radete amendment might be better than what I suggested, because I felt it was very important that the concept of the defence strategy, which was defined by the Constitution itself, be found here, because I am the constitutional touch of this term implies and the jurisdiction of the Assembly, which at this point should be seen through this proposal. Therefore, talking about the strategy must be associated, perhaps such a notion is not important, to everything that is very important for the Serbian Army at this point. The concrete consequences of this famous professionalization are seen at this moment in the city from which I come, and is located on the administrative line with Kosovo, where this number of armies is not reduced, but drastically reduced to a minimum, so today, from a heroic brigade from the last wars, we have a battalion with 100 soldiers and 200 officers in one barracks, at a very critical moment in Serbia. I listened very carefully to Natasha, she listed here very precise data about the modest technical equipment of our army, but I would worry more about the truth that even with such modestly technically equipped garrisons she would have no one to act, to handle and perfect her condition. That is the essence of the strategy and the question is when will this congregation discuss the subject. I think the concept of the defence strategy itself is much more important than what is proposed through this part of the amendment, which is -- a strategic defence review, one concept that is not in Serbia's Military Law anywhere, believing that it really exists in some documents that are professionally related to the mobilization of the Army. The question is whether mobilization, on that right, doctrinal and strategic basis, will be in the future, given that this relationship, first of all, is not optimistic at this point in time for Serbia's military. This Serbia still has the strength to look at the Army in the right sense, as the Army was in a decade in which Serbia did not live happily at all. I'm not going to say good luck, but she lived heroically, and today, the 37th Motorized Brigade, which she insisted, existed in Raska, was reduced to a symbolic association numbering 100 soldiers, who buy leaves in one huge, brave garrison, providing 200 officers who don't even know where they are themselves, what they're doing, what their perspectives are, or their fates. I believe, however, that optimism that comes from these ranks will contribute to raising the fate of our army to the level that we deserve through future laws, which we hope to adopt here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13157	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13158	Thank you, colleague Milovanovic. One of the best commanders in 37. The Raske Brigade was Colonel Stojiljkovic, the best I've ever met. Why won't the government define strategic documents? Because he can't publicly say what strategic things are. The defence strategy involves potential risk, potential direction of action, definition of enemies, measures and means to deter or oppose the enemy. That's why there are no strategic documents, four missing today. The state should have courage. The government that has the majority should have the courage to make a political decision and say -- we're either a NATO pact, or we're with Korea in the pact, or we're a neutral state, or we're an independent state, or we're a Russian state, or I don't know which, as far as the military is concerned. At this session, when this law is passed, the defence minister, who belongs to one of the parties in power, says one thing, and the deputy chairman of the Security Committee, who is from the other party, says we are in favour of the concept of military neutrality. This country has no strategy, no political courage and no political decision. The safety of this country lurks in the dark. That's why fellow Milovanovic and other colleagues and colleagues from the SRS tried to define this amendment with what I'm talking about right now. It can't be that you can defend yourself from someone, or defend yourself successfully, even if you tried with honor without knowing who your potential opponent is. There's one more thing I want to say, there's a lot of information being made public, and needlessly, is about the military in Serbia. I don't think that's good. You can understand me any way you want. The military isn't a bakery company, so to say it'll be 100 kilos in the morning, and 200 breads in the afternoon. The army has other tasks, they're subtle nature. The military is governed by democratic power, etc., as said in this law. The military has one of the most important components, it's a component of deterring a potential opponent. We don't have to say every day, as on the plate, that although these are our friends, as some of you say, they know everything more or less, we don't have to give up unconscious information about units and technical equipment, all kinds of other things. That's not our job. Our job is to pass the right law, to try to explain to the argument that some members of that law need to improve, to change, etc., and not to twist our army and say, here, this is what we have left of the Army, so who comes, on which side, let the plague, since the army is to be beaten. It's not true, no serious army in the world serves to stand up to someone, but to deter someone from coming here, to our territory, to tear down our cities, to kill our people, to destroy our resources, to enslave us. General Perišić, former Chief of General Staff, directly before NATO aggression, told the House of the Army in Gornji Milanovac all relevant information about the state of aviation, the number of MiGs, the state of the engine in the MiGs and the number of aircraft bombs and, as far as I'm concerned, did the act of high treason, regardless of what we could assume that those who attacked us and bombed the country already knew all this. Let the Army do its job. We may, as opposition parties, be dissatisfied that we are not in a position to make political decisions on the use of the Army, we should strive to be you, but until we are those who make policy decisions on the Army, those who do so, should do it carefully, with due respect, because neither the military can be made, nor can its combat condition be easily maintained, but can be easily ruined, we have seen. That's my point, and my wish is for the government to come out clearly with all the strategic documents that are necessary, that we can say whether these are documents based on which we can have confidence in the forces involved in the defence of the country, or whether we need to deal with the defence of the country. In that sense, I hear what they're saying, that some of them are trying themselves, and that, as I've heard here now, on the websites they're reporting all kinds of data about the Army, and the Army itself, and I agree with that, I mean, I don't agree, but I know it exists, but I'm opposing it, it's not normal. So in that sense, I intervene and I ask those who can influence it – not to do so. Because other people in the world don't do that. When others don't, then we don't have to do it either, because no one can benefit from it, and we can all have damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13159	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? National MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to give one notice to my colleague Baralic, he may not know. On the website of the United States, which is the leader of NATO's criminal alliance, you can simply click to find, here, colleague Milivojevic, who brought this laptop, can now find you a national defence strategy of the United States. So the same is true for all countries in the environment, for all countries, whether they are NATO members or not. These are documents available to the public, with the formation forces we have. I have a lot of newsletters here for all the Partnership for Peace countries, about what they have. So in that strategic sense, it doesn't matter, it's what you said, colleague Baralic, which I absolutely agree with. Are the heads of the military and the Ministry of Defense people who take care of the state and who are patriots, above all? We will agree that neither Sutanovac nor Ponos nor the president of the state, because if they cared about the state of Serbia, they would be determined not to tell those who are making us what the Army should look like and who are designing it for 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13161	We're moving on to the next amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Dusan Bajatovic and Bojan Milovanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national envoy, Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13162	Dear People's MPs, here I am, and I'm here to explain something, although I've missed a few amendments. Before I explain this, I would insist that the previous amendment, which Mrs. Verica gave, be accepted, and I would add more about the doctrine and the structure of the army. You see, here in Article 4 paragraph 3 it is necessary to write - the river navy, in the defense doctrine. I don't understand why we kicked the river navy out of a military strategy when we're bordering on several states that have river navy. So, Bulgaria, at the entrance to the Danube, Romania, this is Croatia, and worse, Hungary. All these states that have their own river navy and all these are the countries that sail the Danube. They can't understand that the military law has thrown out the river navy. I'll tell you, as an example, that the Danube is deep and up to 130 meters deep, that the Danube is suitable for the machinations of these countries with various cargoes, and most dangerously, these are nuclear cargo. We had a case, a few years ago, that a ship full of barrels of nuclear fuel went through Gerdap. Secondly, we have a Đerdap hydropower plant of exceptional, as the Defense Act says, military, economic and social significance, which is, in fact, on the river. We don't have any defenses, the police can't do that, they only have boats. It's interesting that it's been thrown out. Is that thrown out of somebody's mouth, or is that some long-term strategy that I don't understand? Secondly, we have a series of cities along the coast and along the borders, which the police cannot control with current technical means, perhaps, in one twenty years. What I still wanted to say about this proposal of the military law, too, and about the bill of defense, is that it seems to me that both were written on the basis of the condition of the military, or the condition of soldiers, or the condition of officers. All this is written so that a certain circle of people has absolute monopoly on life and work and on the families of soldiers. In the Military Act, I will report to the members later on, you will see how various officers, commissioners, president of the Republic, Ministry, can blackmail people, and military faces, and civilian faces. In many members, there is no equal between a civilian or a military person, but we will talk about it in the next amendment. I would agree with the Verica amendment and I would ask the Minister of Defence to sign in or tell me on the basis of which strategy was deleted from the military and defence strategy of Yugoslavia the river navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13163	National MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13164	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I would only ask you to call the minister, not to write messages in the background, but to come to a place here, because we have important questions for him. It is very unserious and violates the dignity of the National Assembly to have the minister sit upstairs, at the scene of security, and to write messages. As for Article 4, there are several disputed positions in this article. First, in the third position, the sights of the Serbian Army are spoken of by the Land Army, the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defence, and, already Mr Kovacevic spoke here earlier, about the Navy. We don't know where that river fleet of ours is lost. Why is there no mention of this law anywhere? It was supposed to sort of explain and tell here what's going on with her in the future. Also, I have a dilemma. I don't understand why the other kind of army is an air force and an anti-aircraft defense. It used to be antiaircraft defense. Whether this is some kind of language grooming or there's something behind it, it's not quite clear to me, I'd like someone to clear it up. It's not good if there's some bad intentions, so for those reasons, this is how it's defined. As for amendments to the SPS MPs, which is almost identical to Mrs Verica Radete's amendment, this is an issue that is initial and basic. We've talked about this before. We build a house without foundation, we make some laws, we make plans, we talk about defence, and we have no strategy, we don't have these strategic documents, we don't know which direction we're moving, what we want from our army, who we defend and how we defend ourselves. I'd like to ask the Minister a question, please listen to me. Who made the formation of the Serbian Army, did our experts do it or did they do it from the NATO Pact? To remind the citizens of Serbia, we came from the army to the brigade level. So, the armies have been wiped out, the Corps is gone, and now we've got brigades. Of a few dozen brigades, we've come to 11 brigades at this point, if I have precise data. In one statement, Chief of General Staff Ponoš said that the goal of our authorities, military leadership and the ministry, is that the numbered situation of our army in 2010 is 21,000 soldiers. We just heard from Miss Jovanovic exact figures on the numerical state at this point, or last year, and here, and the projection is that in 2010, there are 21,000 soldiers. I'm asking you now, what are we going to do with so many soldiers? If a Greek, which is slightly larger than Serbia by population, there are 140,000 soldiers, what do we do with 20,000, do we have an army for war, or are we preparing an army to put out fires, repair floods and something like that? Please, these are serious questions and what you're doing, these reforms you're doing, they're the result of some strategy, some plan. There's a plan in there for someone, but that plan had to come here, that this assembly was considering it, trying to change it, modify it, and that adopting it here would be some long-term document based on which we're going to lead both the military and the defence of this country in the future. This way, individuals have a plan, individuals on the basis of this plan are implementing a reform, but unfortunately, the result of this reform is that we are left without the armed force, or we are bringing it down to the level of the fire brigade. So we're going to disable this country to stand up to anyone. Or, to be precise, it is obvious that the goal of this authority is to use our army only beyond the borders of our country. So we'll have just as many soldiers as it'll take NATO and America to send them to Iraq, Afghanistan or wherever it'll fit America.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13165	The word has a defence minister, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13166	I understand attacks on the minister, I understand political disagreements, I understand the motives of those who tell lies, but I don't understand how you can use statistics that aren't true. So it's not true that there are 29,000 members of the Department of Defense at this point. There are 37,125, right now. We've called for another 1,358 professionals, and that's the number we're talking about, so, like, up to 39,000, 10,000 more than you said. I don't know what that's about, with what I have to tell you, just so you know, in April 2004, there were 78 thousand, and when I became Minister, 38 thousand. So 38 thousand then and now; neither have we reduced the army nor intend to reduce it. That story, which you're telling, that someone has the intention of reducing the army below 120,000, is absolutely not true, nor is the story in which NATO tells us to reduce the military, and then you say that the Greeks have 170 thousand. So it's clear that NATO doesn't order anyone to do anything. If Serbia has the money for, as you said, six armies and if it has the interest to fill six armies with professionals, let's make six armies. Some people live here in the '80s. So, when there were armies, and today the brigade, there were 24 million of us, today there are eight million of us. Simply, math suggests you can't have as much army, on the other hand, I say, in your army it's like in music, as much money as in music. If you think we can support such an army, you didn't support such an army but you left it in the state it was in. Does anyone really think I destroyed the Army, that I destroyed the planes? I heard here today from Mr. Krasic that I'm destroying the air force, and then Mr. Vice President of the SRS came in, so he said, no, I'm not destroying the air force, I'm fixing the MiGs. Who is right now, Mr Krasic, as the supreme authority of this side of the SRS, or Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as a member of this side of the SRS? Come on, make a deal, so at least be clear in the attack, that this attack makes some sense and I can answer that, but you're denying yourself. So, you just talked about how bad NATO is, and then Miss Jovanovic says -- and to participate in the United Nations, they're a disaster, where they are, there's always wars. I didn't say we were involved in any operations, but you deny yourself. Do you want us to be a member of the UN or do you want us to be, as we are in your time, expelled from the UN? These are all decisions that are in Parliament. Gentlemen, I came here today to defend the defense laws and the military, not to mention some statistics that are not true. In that case, let me tell you right away, whenever you want, call me, I'll come along with the members of my college. What you don't know, we're going to tell you, what you have as wrong information, we're going to give you the right information. As far as I'm concerned, I also told the Security Committee, whoever wants you to have coffee in the Secretary of Defense's office and get all the information, is welcome always. Our ministry is not closed to the public, on the contrary, our ministry first publishes data, which some say is wrong. I'm telling you there's nothing right and there's nothing we hide within the Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13167	The word is made by National MP Natasa Jovanovic, under Article 101. Rules of Procedure, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13168	Mr. Sutanovac, you are a pity to yourself, and as for the undisputed authority... What do you want? He's not Aligrudic, he's Albianic, and you're in the Assembly, you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13169	Mrs. Jovanovic, please take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13170	Mr. Sutanovac, you are not a People's MP, you were there until May 15th, so you pushed the buttons and voted for yourself here and you forgot where you were. Now you're the one who needs to be as calm as a bug, sit back and listen carefully, record.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13171	Mrs. Jovanovic, please, we can't talk like that at the assembly pay phone. We can't use offensive expressions, offensive dictionaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13172	Is it okay if Mr. Secretary talks to me like a neighbor across the board?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13173	Mrs. Jovanovic, for the third time I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13174	You see, Mr. Sutanovac doesn't know your last name, you see how miserable you are then, he doesn't know who you are, and you defend him, I really don't understand what you want. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Sutanovac, you know it's a dead end. You've tried that with me a million times, and you've always been barefoot. Don't ever come up with me, not across the bench, not like this, not like that. So, you'd better keep your mouth shut, and as far as this argument that I've made and these statistics are concerned, there may be discrepancies, but I found this on your associates' and operatives' websites that have contracts with the Ministry of Defense and the Army. So there may have been some deviations and mistakes. As for the authority in the SRS, the indisputable authority for the entire Serbian people, for the entire SRS, is a genius like you had the opportunity to meet and address you in accordance with your ability to understand his address from this pay phone, which is Professor Vojislav Seselj. As for authority today, since he is not in Serbia, and soon he will return, the largest authority in the Serbian electoral body, among members of the national minorities, among all those who will go to the elections, whether they are January 20th or I do not know which February, has Mr Tomislav Nikolic; he is the president of our parliamentary group and we have neither left nor right. We don't have those who steal or steal a little more, like you in the DS, or those who cooperate more with criminals and tycoons and those who are content to steal in public enterprises and local self-government. These are moral people, people who know what an army is, what a defense state is, what a preservation of what we have, and you have shown yours with your politics, and you, personally, with your own attitude. You've also come to the post of Secretary of Defense for total destruction in all segments of our society. And that's right, Mr. Sutanovac, here, would you like me to show you what messages are coming in, saying that you went to Paracino to open up a rink and didn't make sure those people were compensated for the damage. Here sits your messenger as a mummy, the woman sits and watches. Come out, Mrs. Vesna... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13175	Miss Jovanovic, please, can you stop? Thank you, come to your seat. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. It will, it will, it's the order, Miss Jovanovic. It's not your turn. The People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13176	Ms. Jovanovic, I congratulate you on what you've said so far and I really support you in the most important part, but I ask you to understand this time that it would not be fair if I gave up this speech. So, Mr. Sutanovac, I'd like to ask you to lick the support the military had in the people in 1999, after, as you say, the lost war? Do you know if it was 70 or 75%? Since 2000, you've taken over the Army and won the winnings all the time, kept perfecting the Army, and you've reached support from 25% to 27%, according to all the analyses you're making. I don't understand what your great success is in. I really can't understand how you're always talking about how someone else ruined the Army. The people gave her 70% support, and now, after all the successful reforms you've made, you've brought her up to 25%. It's completely unclear to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13177	According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word. Mr Vasiljevic, please allow the MP Natashi Jovanovic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13178	So, I suggest you, Mr. Minister, get serious. I gave you, as a member of the Committee, a proposal, I think it's reasonable, tomorrow is Friday, come on Monday, with everything you have in your cabinet, prepared by your associates, in front of the Defence and Security Committee. We'll never have coffee with you at the Department of Defense, we don't think so. I'd take it as a semi-private or I don't know what kind of visit. I am a serious person, an MP for the strongest parliamentary group, a party that will soon come to power and we never went to the ministers for coffee, to exchange views. You may have had the best intentions, perhaps you, as a proposing officer, and your colleagues had the best intentions, but it's a bad bill. I don't see where it comes from, that kind of anger and that kind of hatred, really. If we're talking about something that doesn't agree with your official data, for God's sakes, Mr. Sutanovac, we're civilians who are representatives of the people, you're a civilian, a defence minister, and around you is the Army, bring us exact information, and it's not to be my fight with you, from the bench. First of all, it's ugly, because you're the holder of the executive authority, the minister of defense, to act like one. Here, come to the Defence and Security Committee session on Monday, then I'll come and say, according to the Rules of Procedure or some part of the agenda, Mr. Sutanovac came out with that and that information, we're responding to that. As for these blue helmets, you didn't listen very carefully. So that was the case, by the way, some of our questions about the situation in Sudan, or in the Darfur area, the fact that NATO will go from there, even though it is a huge hotspot, although there are people killing each other every day. Then, in the context of this mission of the United Nations, based on our bitter experience, I said they had been given a mandate, that the Republika Srpska Krajina was surrounded by the continent, that they should have protected the Serb animal in the area of Republika Srpska, but that they went to one signal. I admit, there is now a very different attitude of power in the world, in favour of Serbia. Now we have unequivocal brotherly, friendly support from Vladimir Putin and the Russian Federation, India, Indonesia, China, the entire Arab world, the Latin American countries, all the friendly countries that know we can't give up part of our territory. As for these blue helmets and their mission in Republika Srpska, you know the outcome. It was a synchronised action by the enemies of the Serb people and an attack by the Ustasha military forces against the unprotected Serbs, the slaughter and murder of so many of our countrymen. I wouldn't play with that if I were you. And you're wrong when you say we were expelled from the UN. The government wanted to present our membership after October 5th, and that was never the case. You received warnings all that time, all those years, above all, Kostunica and Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic, the one who now works for the Cypriots and lobbys for them. We never had to make a special request to join, as we are, as state and legal followers of the former, Brozoslavia, one of the founding members of the UN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13179	The word is made by the MP Zlatan Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I need to speak to the Minister. He just came out here and said he doesn't understand why we're attacking him tonight. Mr. Minister, we're not attacking you. We're just concerned about the fate of this country. As for the data that we have provided here, I have made it clear and loud that your Chief of Staff, General Ponos, has said the aim of military and state leadership is that Serbia has 21,000 troops in 2010. That's what he said on "Polygraph," in June of this year. You can read it on the website, literally. He also said Greece, which is slightly larger than Serbia, has 140,000 soldiers. We didn't say you destroyed the Army, you're just one link in the chain of ministers systematically destroying the Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13181	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Cvetanović, please. Mr. Markovic, you gave up? Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister, firstly, when he answered the word and when the MPs of the SRS found that many members of the Constitution did not apply, said to address the Constitutional Court. He completely forgot that the Constitutional Court still does not work, that since 5 October 2000, twice the longer period of time has not been in office, as it is not now, that over a thousand cases have been pending before the Constitutional Court. If that's your argument, Mr. Minister, really, I can hardly give you an adequate answer. All the time you know it's your fault, that even today, the president of Serbia needs to decide who on that list of ten candidates will be a member of the Constitutional Court and that you are slowly beginning to solve all the problems that have accumulated during this period of time. I don't think Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic is right. You sitting at the end of the hall, that's your right. Probably, from before, while you were still in the club security, you have a habit of sitting there, at the entrance or exit of the O.R. It's your right. Please allow me, we were short, concise, we respected all the time what was going on, and then the minister came out for a pay phone, began to insult the MPs, to make factions, as there are in his parliamentary group and in his ministry, as there are within his political party, he began to divide us, to insult us, and this is just a reaction to his action. Whenever the ministers are fit, correct, maximum correct return, reasoned, brief and concise. We respect everything that makes order, work and discipline. We have not insisted that you be present here, counting on us to participate in the discussion, unfortunately, you have managed to target this debate with a different tone, but, as usual, what you asked for, you will get.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13183	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't blame the Minister for his behavior. He is used to a man, but I blame the chairman, for the chairman is obliged to guard the dignity of both the National Assembly and us, the MPs of the people. Mr. Minister, it's yours to sit here, listen to what the MPs have to say, answer a question, clear up some disagreement, not run an election campaign. You'll win at Leskovac. Is tonight a pre-election campaign, a local election in Leskovac? Mr. Minister, it's yours either to sit here and act like the minister should behave, or go out the door, leave the MPs to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13185	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13186	Mr. Albianic, that's Article 136. I was a little off, but from the building, what little I heard about this bill, it really shows that temporary measures should be imposed at the Ministry of Defense. Here's why. I expected Mr. Sutanovac to explain that attitude 6 in Article 4 fell from Mars.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13187	Mr. Krassic, please. Go ahead, but keep an eye out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13188	Mr. Albianic, you have problems because you don't have a bill in front of you and you probably don't have amendments. If you had a bill of law and amendment in front of you, you would easily see that what is stated in paragraph 6, by substance, does not belong to Article 4. You could have put this in Article 3, that would have made sense already, but in Article 4, there's no point in being. The other big problem is that all the documents that are listed here, the long-term plan, the development of the defence system, the strategic plan, the defence review, I talked about this strategic defence plan this morning, are to be adopted in the National Assembly. It could be a public session. It's no problem, because that's where military facilities are projected, territorial schedules, etc. We must not leave it to the Minister, the President of the Republic and the Chief of Staff, depending on which party is in charge of the Ministry of Defence. It's software and planning documents. It's kind of like an DS program, but the DS program isn't divided into members, because you say here – in accordance with the provisions. When you say - provision, it's a second term for a member, for a position, for a point. All planning and programming documents expressing the direction of development, the possibility of development, in which direction it should go, which areas should be developed, are written in the free text, divided into some chapters in a formal and legal sense, but there is no provision, there is no member. So if you wrote -- in accordance with the long-term plan, it would make some sense, but in accordance with the provisions, there is no provision plan. No such strategic document is divided into members. There are no members. What's the point of this amendment? The point of this amendment is that it wants to potentiate the consistency of all software documents, both defence strategies and the long-term development plan and the strategic defence programme, that all these documents have some common thread. That's the point of this amendment. They got caught, I saw some reasons there, they didn't understand the amendment. The position of the 6th Article 4 shall not be the place in Article 4. If you put it in Article 3, it would probably have some basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13189	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Defence and Security Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I speak politely to you, I do not insult you. I don't belong to those who insult you. We resent something that is not good, and that is the bill on Serbia's Army. As a serious party, we want the Serbian Army to regain the reputation it had, and let the start be to pass a good law on Serbia's Army. To avoid misunderstanding our reaction from the site earlier, Mr. Albianic, when you called about the amendment that we submitted to Article 4, we said about Mr. Bojan Milovanovic and Rajko Baralic's discussion, you reported on the amendment submitted by Mrs. Verica Radeta, because it was similar and we didn't want to make any additional story. Our goal is to give you as many arguments as possible, to convince you, if you accept at all, and if you are not so vain, so that some time you can be convinced that you need to accept something, and not, instead of force of arguments, by argument of strength – you can't, and point. That's why we explained it. Otherwise, if we wanted obstruction, there's no better reason than, Mr. Minister, your answers when you come out for this pay phone. You give one answer to a question that is not asked, and you open at least 20 questions for discussion. Our desire and goal is something else - that you too realize that the opposition is responsible for participating in the creation of a law that is very important. For that opposition, someone voted, not only who would be the position, but who would be the opposition, and what should be done during that time. Let me get back to the amendment. The bill promoter and we agree in the following – that the Army is an organized, depolitized armed force. Here we agree, and we disagree in that second formulation, below, where you skip words – sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity and security, defending the country from the armed threat on the outside. You see, I keep stressing that, so you don't draw the wrong conclusions. This Article 14 should, in fact, explain in more detail why the military has been depolitised and says, "A military person is prohibited from attending political parties' meetings in uniform and any political activity other than the use of active voting rights." We don't have a dispute here. The second point is said: "The professional military person and soldier, student and student of the military school institution and person at the second professional training for officers and officers cannot be a member of the political party". That's how it's written to create confusion. What's the matter? It could be a consequence. Look, he can't be a member of a political party. What's a countermeasure if he's a member of a political party? So you say, "Listen, I'm not going to the Army?"- I'm sorry. The recruit can't wait to say it and he'll say it - right now, I don't want to go to the Army. Mr. Minister, you said the fill-in, the recruit's response is about 90 percent. We need to tell this public in more detail, and that's what the press published, so it's no secret, no secret information that 40% of the recruits plead for military service, and 30% for civilians. So that's 90%, of those 40% that have applied, etc. What's bothering you here? This is where the word "soldier" gets in the way. Why? (Dragan Radulovic, from the post: It was on the Committee, the amendment was accepted and the government accepted it. I don't know this. Why don't you say it's accepted. I'm saying the problem is the word "soldier." So that's a surplus. If a soldier is serving a military term, he has no right to be a member of a political party and cannot be politically engaged. That's in point one. If it's a professional face, and a professional soldier is a professional face. As I explain this, I'm getting information that the Committee or the Government, or the Committee, has accepted the amendment, so the words "and the soldier" have been deleted. Right? (Yes) If that's the case, then I have no reason to keep talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13191	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. He has the word Secretary of Defense Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13192	Mr. Petronievich, since you said we're refusing suggestions, etc., I'm sorry you didn't get the information that it was accepted on the board. Otherwise, it's not the only thing that's been accepted, but more amendments have been accepted. I am not a member of Parliament to pass it on to you. It's just, that thing was done, noticed, we pulled out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13193	Thank you, Minister. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (Zeljko Vasiljevic, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure, and you ask about the amendment? I'm asking if anyone's answering about the amendment. After such a goodwill, so many Rules of Procedures in the air, I don't know what's going on. Here is the word of the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I just want to inform you that today, at the cabinet session, a decision has been made that all Kosovo and Metohija coordinators who are members of the SPS have resolved their functions. At times when unity on the Kosovo and Metohija issues, its defences, is a key issue, that all parties participate in this uniquely, we have a situation that the government wants to share this people on this issue, to share political parties on similarity. I just want to remind you that at a time when the Democratic Party was in opposition, no one replaced its co-ordinators from Kosovo and Metohija, precisely because we do not want the Kosovo and Metohija issue to be politicised this way. Given that we have an obligation, issued by the president of the Parliamentary Group and the president of the SPS, to all report to the Rules of Procedure, I think it is best that this session is terminated, that consultations be carried out with the heads of parliament groups and that one correct way out of this situation. Otherwise, we won't let any more amendments be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13195	Mr. Vasiljevic, these aren't constructive things, so you don't let someone do it. It's a normal thing to do the amendments. If this happened today at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it's half past nine in the evening, I don't understand the situation. (Zeljko Vasiljevic, from the place: Call Dacic. ) There is a word from MP Rajko Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13196	Mr. Albianic, it's not yours to appreciate how we're going to use the Rules of Procedure. Yours is to appreciate whether we behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, to you, gentlemen of government, it doesn't matter that in a few days, decisions need to be made that are crucial to Kosovo and Metohija. You would like to try some of the activists who came running from various parties in those few days, because up until two years ago you didn't even have activists, set up, settle others, so it will be that you need the political space that you need to solve in a democratic way a crisis that has been going on for decades, and it applies to Kosovo and Metohija. Everyone does what they think they should, but they can't go as far as they think they should. I'd like to take this as a mistake, but it's obviously not a mistake. For you in the coalition, public enterprises are not enough, apanazes of 200, 300, 500 thousand dinars per month on boards and boards of directors. You don't have enough executive posts in public enterprises. Not enough ambassadors, consuls, are not enough for you to have several thousand seats in different agencies, which you have invented to choose your activists and give them a few times as much as the salaries of MPs, ministers and heads of state. You in Kosovo and Metohija today replace some people who do not even have a grain of power, only have a burden of responsibility. What's the coordinator? You're showing your true face today. That's what you actually are. Nothing is sacred to you. If you continue this way, you will have a serious problem both in this House and in the state. Don't underestimate a small company called the SPS here. This is no threat. This is an institutional political struggle. We'll be tough opponents from this day forward. As hard as possible. Let me see how you do. Let me see how you do. There'll be a lot of dilemmas, just like in the morning. We forgive no one. What you're doing today...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13197	Thank you, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13198	... It wasn't done by anyone. I'm reporting back to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13199	A little attention. So, I'm taking a five-minute break, and we'll keep working. Please focus a little bit and continue to work on the amendments. [[After break, 20.40]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Is there anyone else reporting on the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13201	Mr. Albianic, you've done nothing for nothing, there's no pause. I can talk about the amendment, since the chairman didn't say on what basis he gave me his word. So I can choose on what basis I'm going to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13202	I gave you my word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13203	The next time you train the chairman, he will tell me exactly what basis he gives me, and then I will address you on that basis. It's a completely clean situation. So, I'm going to talk about the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic for another ten minutes. If that's any favor, that's fine, there's no problem. We'll explain a few more things. You can't play with us. (Vuko Antonijevic, from the post: What does the amendment say? ) Vuko Antonijevic, is this a member of the ruling coalition? He gave his word. How much is your thing worth? He gave his word that this question would not be debated. How long have you kept your word? What are you, the ruling coalition, the Feds, what are you, the political La Campanella? This is your degree of unity for the Serbian people in Kosovo, political unity, etc. Does your government have a secret ambush? Parliament is in public, as you can see. Let us know exactly what you've done, what decisions you've made, what you're going to fix, whether you're going to make sure that Kosovo and Metohija are tighter and more clearly defined to defend sovereignty and integrity. Was that your goal? You've achieved, there's no problem. I wouldn't be surprised if you imported the coordinators. So no one who lives there, whose family is there, you import coordinators, you don't have your own, you bring them from other municipalities and you set them up as coordinators. That's what you do in Kosovo and Metohija now. Or did you give someone your word? Who did you give the word to that you had to change the socialists? Who did you give your word to? How much does that cost? There are questions that are not discussed. This isn't the Public Asylum Management Board, 70,000 a month. This is not the Management Board of the "Electro Network of Serbia", 279,000 a month has a member of the Management Board. This is not the Serbian Railway Management Board, 81,000 a month, this isn't the Official Messenger, this isn't the Serbian Bookshop, 100,000 a month. This is not the Post Office of Serbia, 140,000 a month. This is not JAT, several thousand euros a month, these are co-ordinators in Kosovo and Metohija, shame on you. This isn't about money. This is about something else. What else is that? There are few thousands of furniture in Serbia, so these few need to block your coalition agreement. That's what you do. I wouldn't be surprised if you did anything else to arrest all the socialists in Kosovo tonight, so you wouldn't happen to be left with one, not to spoil your average. Go ahead. Mr. Albianic, let the Government of the Republic of Serbia tell us exactly what she did, why she holds dark, secret sessions. What are you doing? Whose government are you? Who do you represent? Can you make your decisions public? Let's get some information on what you did last night. Inform Serbian citizens of the decision you made. Is that a secret? No, you're acting like this where you're "attacked by the blobs" and you're working in the dark. There is no debate on amendments until this issue is discussed. I'm not getting off this pay phone until I get an answer to the question of what you did at the government meeting of the Republic of Serbia. Give us information on what the decision is, who are the people who are relieved, who are the people you set up and with what explanation. So, Mr. Albianic, you can give me a warning, you can call security to take me out, I'm not moving away from the pay phone. So, I suggest you set a break by 10:00 in the morning, so issue a statement tonight about what your dark government has done, who has solved whom, who has appointed whom and with what explanation. Otherwise, he won't be able to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13204	Mr. Baralich, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13205	There's no time, Mr. Albianic. It's time to announce what you've done and what your explanation is. It's your priority, it's the most important thing you do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13206	Mr. Baralich, time's up in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13207	There's no time. You can play till morning. I told you what's your alternative. Call security, give me a warning...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13208	Mr. Baralic, you don't have a microphone. It's been two minutes. It's past the time you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13209	(The MP stands behind the pay phone, talks all the time, but the microphone is off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13210	Mr. Baralic, please, you've finished your exposure. Please return to your seat. You can answer the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13211	(The MP stands behind the pay phone, talks all the time, but the microphone is off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13212	Mr. Baralic, that's not how it's done in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13213	(The MP stands behind the pay phone, talks all the time, but the microphone is off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13214	It's impossible for you to learn something like that from me. I believe that, as MPs, we should treat each other in a good way, which means that we should allow all MPs equal rights in the Rules of Procedure, both for a pay phone and for the functioning of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13215	(The MP stands behind the pay phone, talks all the time, but the microphone is off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13216	Mr. Baralic, I give you a reminder of your behavior. I gave you a warning about your behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13217	(The MP stands behind the pay phone, talks all the time, but the microphone is off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-06-0.u13218	Thank you. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes, according to Article 111. Rules of Procedure, until order is established. Thank you. [[After break, 21:00]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work after the break. Since I disagree, as chairman, with this way, I'm setting a break. We'll continue work tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.
