ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for the little delay. We continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 127 Members of the People. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Dejan Perjanic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Constitutional Court Law (exist in particular) I remind you that at yesterday's part of the session, we have suspended our work during the search of the amendment of MP Srdjan Shajn to Article 3. It's a bill of law. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Natasa Jovanovic and then the MP of the people, Esad Djudjevic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know very well how long the MPs of the SRS insisted that, under the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court law be placed on the agenda. We had more than an active participation in the debate on this law, one of the most important laws, after the adoption of the new Constitution and, as you know, we have submitted dozens of amendments. The amendments to the SRS were not accepted. Several amendments were only accepted to explain that Dusan Petrovic was, behold, generous, that he wanted to listen to some more advice, although he is aware of the fact that neither he nor his Democratic Party took part in the new constitution campaign last year. Remember yourself, on November 9, last year, when the Law for the Implementation of the Constitution was declared, when he was head of the DS parliamentary group, what speech it was, in two sentences – here, we adopted yesterday, declared a new Constitution, today we have constitutional law. Not to remind you that the drama is about that, my colleagues Aligrudić and my colleague Dacic are witnesses, whether the DS will vote for the Constitutional Law until late evening, at the House of the National Assembly, because Michael Polt, former American ambassador, about 15 hours, Petrovic and DS, of course through Boris Tadic, has made these demands known to them, you remember very well. Then there was, little to say, the tension over whether after the constitution was declared we would have any constitutional law, or not. Mr. President, yesterday the assembly, upon the coming of the minister, began discussing the amendments and we stopped at the amendment of counterpart Srdjan Shain. The next amendment to be discussed is the amendment of the LDP parliamentary group, and later the SRS amendments are on the move, because we have begun to submit amendments to the 13th member of the Constitutional Law. Minister Dusan Petrovic is missing. We insist, with this gentleman's respect, who we don't know who he is or what he is, we've seen him before, he's come, yes, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Petrovic has to be here. First, to explain why he had such a selective approach when it comes to the amendments to the SRS and when he was already on the right footing since the adoption of the amendments that I submitted to Article 13. The bill, why it did not follow the concept to the end and why it did not stick to what the Serbian Radical Party took as a principle, which is that the Constitutional Law must be consistent with the Constitution, termnologically, essentially and in every respect. I insist on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr. President, that you invite Dusan Petrovic to take active part in the debate in the details of the Constitutional Law, so that we can continue to work and show the citizens of Serbia what our views are. How important it is for us Serbian radicals to get first of all the law, and then, we talked about it for days, the Constitutional Court right, which obviously won't be the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10710	Of course, I wouldn't let the session begin without a guarantee that the minister will arrive; I've heard from him and he'll be here any minute. I just wanted to get started on time session, fellow MPs to report to the Rules of Procedure. If the minister doesn't make it to the moment until we start talking about these amendments, I'll take a break and we'll wait for him to arrive. The word is from the People's MP Esad Djudjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10711	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to leave this booth, in accordance with Article 31. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to make a public apology to all those who took office yesterday as I chaired the parliament, from 12.00 to 1400 hours, could feel injured by my possible failures in the conduct of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10712	According to the Rules of Procedure, MPplatmir Stević appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am reporting on the basis of Rules of Procedure 225, 226. You were not there on Monday, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic chaired the assembly session, and I asked for answers to many questions. Unfortunately, I didn't get them, so it looks like it was deaf talk. (President: I suggest we do what we've been doing all week, and that's to leave for the end. ) This issue and this problem cannot wait for the end and parliamentary issues because it is Saturday, because it is an important date for the Serbian people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and I think about the state of Serbia. The whole public knows that temporary institutions have called elections for November 17th. The Socialist Party has since the beginning, since the arrival of the peacekeeping forces, been against the so-called Serbs. elections. Why? For many reasons; because, even after eight years, as many representatives of the international community there, there are no minimum conditions for the normal life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, for a life worthy of man, from the right to freedom of movement, the right to work, rights to property, the right to return, etc., simply, the right to life. I think we were right about our position that Serbs should not go to that election. I have also asked and asked for this moment information from you, there is official and semi-official information from the competent ministries, given that 181 people are registered by UNMIK in Kosovo and Metohija in the migration to Serbia and there is the possibility of abuse and manipulation as far as the elections are concerned. I asked on Monday, again, how many polling stations on the territory of the Serbian state will be opened and who is in charge of conducting these elections, which authorities, who distributes the material and who will return the material to Kosovo and Metohija? That is why the SPS calls on Serbs not to participate in these elections, because there are no instruments to protect against majorisation. This insistence that it is good to participate and that we have 10 guaranteed seats in the Kosovo Parliament is a grave error. The Kosovo Parliament has 120 MPs, ten reserved seats for Serbs; assuming that all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija come out and vote, we can get another 10 seats. So if the relationship of power is 20 seats to 120, it means nothing without talking about local elections and the situation at the bar. For example, Pristina has 51 committees; if all Serbs came out, they would get three more committees and would not represent any force and could not represent the people of Kosovo and Metohija, if it is known that there are no instruments to protect against majorisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10714	Thank you. I'm setting a 15-minute break. We continue our work when the minister arrives. [[After break – 10.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10716	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I'm going to try to make a few more points that I think the arguments are in favour of adopting the amendment that I have proposed. First, let's start with the first member of the bill to be discussed. In that first article, it doesn't say that you can determine and interfere with human rights and freedoms. The first member says: "The constitutional court's regulation, the procedure before the Constitutional Court and the legal fact of the Constitutional Court's decisions are governed by this law. "This law does not regulate the conduct of the Constitutional Court judge outside their office and outside the Constitutional Court. That's one thing. The second thing, in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Article 19, is clearly defined: "Every one has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, which includes the right not to be disturbed because of his opinion... "and so on. For the sake of time, not to take away much. Article 27 defines: "Everyone has the right to protect moral and material interests arising from every scientific, literary or artistic work... "and in the view before that, it states that everyone has the right to participate in scientific progress. So he can't participate in scientific progress unless he has the right to public opinion, when we talk about people who are undoubtedly, among other things, scientists. In Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights has been defined: "Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes the freedom to have its own opinion, to receive and to communicate information and ideas without interference between public authorities and regardless of borders. "If we move on and we take the Constitution, if we analyze certain members of the Constitution, then we will see that all these rights are guaranteed by this Constitution. It is obviously a question of what is the consequence, as Mr Batic says, if some Constitutional Court judge delivers his opinion, because in the reasons for his shift you do not have that reason defined in this law. So, this amendment should be accepted, because it brings one harmonisation into the law and corresponds to one thing that we should think about, which is that in the course of the proceedings we ensure an independent decision-making process, namely the independent work of judges, and then allow judges to behave like all citizens. We can't in this way deny someone's human right to freedom of mind, because we assume that he's going to politicize things. If the president of the state, the president of parliament, ministers can present their opinions in the campaign and run for office, I do not see a problem in a democratic society that the Constitutional Court judge is running for president of the state and that he can present his opinions, among other things, on these issues. Well, in a direct way, we limit not only his right to freedom of opinion, but we also restrict his other human rights. In that sense, I really urge you to accept this amendment with that explanation, that it be an integral part of the law. There's one more question here, and I'm gonna end up with it for the sake of time. Since when can he not comment on those decisions? What decisions can he not comment on? The decisions of the Constitutional Court in which he participated in the trial, the decisions of the Constitutional Court before him by constitutional courts? Can he comment on the decisions when he retires, when he ceases to be judge of the Constitutional Court? We're entering an undefined space, a space that... If this is put before all the judges of the Constitutional Court, I think that, in any case, this position and this restriction will be declared unconstitutional, because we have no right to a single holder of public functions to restrict certain rights, especially if we analyse the parts of the Constitution that speak of the unity of power, to divide the authorities into constitutional, judicial and legislative.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10717	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I remain with what is stated in the explanation of the amendment. There's got to be a legal interest, not every person. And the call to the law on the availability of information has absolutely nothing to do with this provision of the law, because that would mean total volunteerism, total anarchy, total chaos. I also wanted to comment on Mr. Srdjan Shane's amendment, as prosecutors, therefore, special prosecutors publicly comment on the procedures and procedures ahead. Mr. Minister, we've been listening here, I mean that spectacular arrest of the former district attorney, the district attorney at the time of Zoran Djindjic's government, Radet Terzic, the illustrious allegations of a special prosecutor for organised crime, interviews, everything and everything, and that's one thing. The second thing, how are you going to prevent, and what the consequences for them will be, the Constitutional Court judges to comment on a decision, especially how you will prevent future party judges of the Constitutional Court, who are already defined by their party membership. Mr. Minister, you've (we've been waiting for you, it's no big deal, I don't mind) participated in the show "The Fist," but you've brought out things that are illegal. You said that the list of candidates for the Constitutional Court judges is where the flat-rate findings are presented. No, Mr. Minister, the truth is coming out. The other thing is if that truth bothers you. You have concluded that not the parties have proposed candidates, but MPs' clubs. That's great wisdom, Mr. Minister. Parliament clubs are a metaphysical category, and there's no connection, I mean those relationships with the parties, don't talk so publicly. This afternoon, when members of the union are present in their homes, I will talk about this second part of your findings. You said something else, Mr. Minister, about the election of a third-third of the Constitutional Court judges, that you firmly believe that the Cassation Court, the State Major Prosecutors, the High Council of the judiciary, will be established by the middle, that is, by the eighth month of next year. I firmly believe, Mr. Minister, that your government will not exist until the middle of next year, because it is not in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister, you firmly believed, when you mixed up the grandmothers and frogs, bringing the Constitution, which is a disgrace to a European democratic state, that this constitution will preserve Kosovo and Metohija, and here every day we get from international officials a new proposal, but there is no negotiating team to tell us what it is about Kosovo and Metohija. You firmly believed, because you were the one who mentioned that after the adoption of the new Constitution there would be elections at all levels. It's been 13 months since the new Constitution was adopted, and no choice is in sight. I'd just like to ask you that for what people here are making as arguments, you don't indicate that they're flat-rate findings. We argued that it was past the provisions of the Constitution and the law, because it doesn't say anything, political parties have proposed candidates. Parliament Speaker Mr. Dulic said he hoped all parties, i.e. parliamentary clubs, which is the same thing, would be tautology, suggested their best candidates. So they're party candidates. Some were members of the Central Committee, some are members of the JUL today. If you don't mind, then I don't know what a party court is. We stated, it's not a legal condition, but it's a real condition that the Constitutional Court judges in the future have passed a judicial exam – the semi-candidate doesn't have one. How do you expect the professors of law school, and we're going to get that amendment and that provision on the application of procedural laws, to apply procedural laws when they've never been in court, never held any court cases in their hands? Unreal. There'll be chaos in the judiciary, just like this. Imagine, theoretically, that all people go to the Constitutional Court, anyone who wants to, who has nothing to do, who wants to get warmed up, who wants to have fun. What does it mean, every face? What does that have to do with the law on the availability of information? Nothing. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10719	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government suggests that the amendment is not accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10720	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the meaning of the amendment to Article 4 of the amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, is to define the right of those persons who show legal interest in the case files of the Constitutional Court. The SPS therefore considers that such a formulation in the position of Article 4 and is too liberal to ask that question and that literally every person can seek insight into the files, which can contribute to the slowdown of the work of the court and the unnecessary increase of costs. It is sufficient, the SPS considers, that the examination of the files may have legal persons which are the subject of the appeal, i.e. concerning the appeal, persons on the one hand or on the other, or any third party who, on any basis, exercise legal interest and in relation to this constitutional appeal. We think it's absolutely irrational and inappropriate that any person can have, at any time and at all times, insight into the constitutional court's records. This, in addition to slowing down the work of the court, can also create a vision of great pressure on the work of the Constitutional Court, which is the darkest variant in the practice of the Constitutional Court, if that were to happen. This reminds me of what the Resistance did in 2000 and 2001, which recommended itself as an organisation of a pair of excellencies, which, of course, cannot be and cannot be, has not, which has been placed above the system and above society, so that the Resistance attended the exams in schools or participated in the procedural actions of judicial authorities, carried out various audits of the work of many institutions in our country, which is absolutely unacceptable. Thus, through legal solutions, the National Assembly must clearly, explicitly define obligations, rights, duties of the system institutions and that these institutions are independent of the influence of political parties or of some other power centres that want to disrupt the work of the institutions that are in the state system. We, in fact, must not create legal solutions to the possibility of parallel action or parallel functioning of any government, which was particularly present at the beginning of 2000. I have set an example of the Resistance, which has done so in a truly unacceptable and inappropriate way. You know how, the next day, some other organization, under any name, can appear whether it will be "Stop DOS" or another organisation, does not have to be called "Resistance", which will stop the work in the same way that "Resist" did in 2000 and 2001. Therefore, the SPS considers that, of course, citizens' rights cannot be threatened and that they can be seen into the work of institutions, but in an adequate and appropriate manner and that we must define the law in such a way that institutions always work effectively, in favour of the state and its citizens. For these reasons, the SPS considers that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10721	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10722	In accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Mr President, since we have long discussed the case of the Belgrade City Assembly and the unconstitutional, illegal and past the Rules of Procedure decided to elect the President of the Assembly, Vice President and V.D. The mayor, where the Rules of Procedure was harshly broken, which you could see for yourself, after getting a stenogram, we tried to do everything in accordance with the law. Immediately, on 9 October, we informed the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Local Self-Government was held, unequivocally all members of the Committee, on the basis of the material, i.e. the stenogram, decided to refer to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and that the Ministry of Local Self-Government was determined on the basis of the law on a session held in the Belgrade City Assembly. It's been more than a month, and the Ministry has made no decision to this day. I understand that it is difficult to accept the fact that so far, here, since 1990, since the start of a multi-party parliamentary system in Serbia... Unfortunately, he's not a minor yet, but if things like this are done, he doesn't seem to be a full-time man for much longer. The Ministry of Local Self-Government has not done what is only possible -- to annul the Belgrade City Assembly's decision to elect the president of the assembly, vice president and acting mayor of Belgrade. We have waited patiently from day to day, decisions will be made, decisions will be made, today it is finally said that the decision will be made by 12 hours. I didn't even intend to go out for a pay phone, but I see that the head of the DS parliamentary group is either not informed, or he doesn't know anything about it yet. I'm saying this for the public, and I'm talking about the Serbian Parliament. We will since 12 hours try to convince the Serbian Parliament of all that we claim, in the only possible way, by reading to you from the beginning of the session a stenogram as the session of the Belgrade City Assembly ran. I think you will be able to conclude without a great deal of trouble that what I said is absolutely true and that you will then ask the Ministry of Local Self-Government to make the only possible decision, as I assume it is not in your best interest that the president of the DS Assembly be elected in this way. Don't you understand? You have made it impossible for other committees in the City Assembly to be elected on the basis of the Constitution. You've made it impossible for us. It's absolutely illegal, it's the terror of the majority, and I think we're going to convince you that it needs to be annulled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10723	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment of MP Miletic Mihajlovic? Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10724	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amendments to Article 4 submitted by colleagues Vladan Batic and Miletic Mihajlovic are essentially the same. Different words have been used, but basically one and the other amendments have the same meaning, which is that not everyone can think of, for only his own known reasons, without any personal, legal or any interest, to appear in the Constitutional Court and to seek insight into the files of this or that case. Both amendments make sense. I guess the government's not predicting in its proposal also makes sense from the government's point of view. My guess is that the government wanted to be broad-minded so that everyone could enter the Constitutional Court building and look for anything that came to his mind, but it's really logical and one and another amendment. I think it would be completely whatever amendment you would accept on behalf of the government, since the government did not accept them. I've reported more because of reasons why the government has not accepted this amendment. The fact that you're bringing the government's opinion back-to-back, you probably didn't even look at it yourself... We know that yesterday was the question whether or not we will continue yesterday's work day, because the President of Parliament knows that amendments cannot be discussed unless we have the government's opinion. I didn't even know if we'd get the government's opinion in the meantime, while we were finishing that previous agenda. We got that opinion, we got it in time, nothing is disputed, but it's obvious that you, as a resolution minister, are not familiar with this opinion of the government at all. If it is, and I see that you're reacting as if it is, then I'm even more surprised that you could accept such an unbulful explanation. Not only with these two amendments, but with the other amendments, of course, we'll talk about it when these amendments come to order. In an explanation why you do not accept the amendment of Vladan Batic, you say: "The government does not accept the amendment since Article 4(1) is accepted. The bill calls for a law governing free access to information of public importance regarding insight into case files and copying files. "Does this mean, if you take care of this law that you have quoted here, that anyone can come into the building of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, says - good afternoon, I came to see, say, a contract on the Horgos-Požega concession, which no one has seen yet? Does that mean that? Are you, as a ministry and as a government, open to every passenger intentional to come, to come into the government building and get all the information? It is not, of course, Mr. Konstantinovic, and you know that it is not, as the whole of Serbia knows that this famous contract has not yet been seen with all annexes. Much has been done in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is what the citizens of Serbia have no idea about, and you know it well. We will use these parliamentary issues, the agenda item -- parliamentary issues, at the end of this session, so you will see what we from the Serbian Radical Party know, what information we receive, and what you hide from the citizens of Serbia. Besides, I don't know how you, my colleague, can say, yes, that the government is open, when we know that the information trustee has no authority to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia. We know that the Administrative Board has asked for it, so it had to ask, since the government did not provide data on the earnings of directors and members of boards of public enterprises whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is amazing that the Assembly, which elects the Government, cannot obtain data on the profits of the directors, both members and chairman of the boards of directors of the republican public enterprises! That's amazing. The administrative board of the Republika Srpska Assembly had to look for these data through the information commissioner, and it did not receive them. So, if you want to defend your thesis to remain this way in Article 4, as you predicted, that any person can demand that he be given insight into the case files, that he be allowed to copy the file, etc., if you want to defend it, I don't mind, but you have to defend it in one logical and legally justified way, you can't call on anything that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10725	I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[After break – 11.15]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work after the break. The word has been delivered by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta, who I apologize to for interrupting her at half the discussion. It was a higher power. The whole Terrasian plateau has no power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10727	Apparently, the EPS director was afraid that I would say what his salary was, so just as I mentioned the salaries of the director of public enterprises, there was no electricity in this building, and here we hear it, and in this part of the city of Belgrade. The joke aside, so I finished about what I wanted to say, and what is about the amendments of my colleagues Vladan Batic and Miletic Mihajlovic. I suggest that Mr. Minister consider adopting one of these two amendments, because it would still be a little too much for the Constitutional Court to be opened in the manner set out in Article 4 of the government's bill. Of course, we are for the absolute public in the work of every authority, and even the Constitutional Court, we are for it, but really if there is an interest, not to have someone live in some organs, but anyone who has an interest in getting certain data. Repeat, I am only risking to run out of electricity again, that it is the interest of the citizens of Serbia and also of the MPs, which is why it is required, to finally find out what the salaries of the directors of public enterprises, members and president of the boards of directors, especially because we know – these data are published only in the Official Messenger, these are government decisions on the appointment of the president and members of the boards of directors – that there are quite a number of MPs from the ruling coalition who are members of the boards of public enterprises. We think that this may be the reason or whether it is the reason for the citizens of Serbia and other MPs, who do not participate in the work of the boards of directors, not to know how much compensation they receive for the work. It is not the exact information given by the government's representative to the Serbian Parliament's Administrative Board -- that the government cannot give such information, because some aggregated data is being kept in the government. That is not true, given that, again, I am reminded, through the parliamentary question, I have asked for an answer to the salary of the director and chairman of the board of directors of a public enterprise. We got an answer from the government to that question, you got it all in the congregation material. That information, according to the information we have, is not true. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, asked Mr Jocic, for he was here at the time, for his ministry to deal with this information and to provide us with the right information. It's been a month and we haven't gotten any information. It's probably state secrets and that's what you can't talk about. This is, in relation to the amendment of his colleague Srdjan Shaina, who commented until when the Constitutional Court judge must not talk about cases and must not make his views and opinions public, so counterpart Shain said earlier that it was not good because it means that someone must not talk about what he is doing for the rest of his life. Of course there are members of some professions, I don't know, doctors, lawyers, priests, people at the top of the state who can't talk about their work until they're free, say, bound to keep state or military secrets. And we have a case, let's say, that all the state and military secrets of the Republic of Serbia are open to The Hague tribunal. Carla del Ponte has the general authority to enter every archive of Serbia, that she can get any secret information and that anyone who reports that she wants to be a witness to the UN tribunal, on the side of the indictment, of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia releases military or state secrets by an urgent procedure. So, there's a lot that can be connected to this, to you seemingly harmless, amendments, but this really really needs to be discussed. All of us who have submitted amendments, and you who have not done so, should also consider amendments from MPs who have submitted the amendment, regardless of whether it is not a colleague or a colleague from our parliamentary group. It is important to see that our intention is that the text of this Constitutional Court law is a really good text, that we do not have to have amendments and additions to this law in a few months' time again on the agenda. That's why, Minister, I invite you, no matter what you've already looked at these amendments and what you've said, in fact, you've noded to know the government's opinion of each amendment, to seriously consider once again every amendment that we're going to explain here today. And, don't be silly, these amendments were written by lawyers, people who have a lot of experience in communicating with the Constitutional Court, at least as far as the SRS is concerned, and I suppose the others, don't be vain, accept the amendments. As far as the SRS is concerned, believe me, they've all been done with extreme well-meaning, with a sincere desire to at least make this law a law for a longer term, not to be able to have the law again, which is why we don't have a Constitutional Court, because it's a special question of how much we're going to function with a two-thirds Constitutional Court, which is allowed under the Constitution, but it wouldn't be a good thing to be with an unlimited deadline. There is much work to be done before the Government and before the Assembly, and it would be good that once we discuss one law, it is a serious and responsible debate; when a law is passed in this House, we do not have to come back in a few months. You know very well, Mr Petrovic, from experience, from the previous period, when you yourself were an MP, how many times did it happen that the amendments of the SRS were not accepted and that after three or five months we had amendments and amendments to the law, and changes and additions were, in fact, amendments to the SRS from the previous period. We were pleased to explain it to you, to show it, to quote it. Don't let that happen. Try to have a serious and responsible relationship with this law and in general with your work. Forget you're a member of the Democratic Party. Act as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We have bad experience with the Democratic Party ministers, above all with Mr Milan Markovic, who has shown in an unremembered manner that the party minister on the day that the Democratic Party MPs were gunned down, I don't know any more than anything else, came out of the hall and for some time had not attended the work of this parliament, which is legitimately right, and I do not make any accusations about the work of the DS parliamentary group, but the minister was not allowed to do so. So I urge you, as a serious man, to consider every amendment, regardless of who is the applicant of the amendment, seriously consider it, to look at it in the context of the whole text of the law and not to experience amendments as something that is against the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, as far as the SRS is concerned, we generally think that this is a very bad government, that the government is divided into feeds, that you don't know who's doing what; you from the Democratic Party are one group, these so-called People second, G 17 third. This is also seen in how MPs participate in the debate: when you, as a representative of the Democratic Party, represent a law here, then the MPs of the DS take part in the debate; when Dragan Jocic is there, then the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia participate. That's right with the G17. So we don't have a single nice word for the government of the Republic of Serbia. We've got a lot of objections, which we're bringing out and we're going to bring them out in public. We want that government down as soon as possible. We want elections at all levels, we want citizens of Serbia, who want to change, to get an opportunity to vote for the changes. All this is not the reason that while you are in office, you are seriously not considering amendments to the opposition MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10728	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is made by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10729	I thought it was about the end of the debate and I think it's a good time. As far as these two amendments, which have the same meaning, have an essential part of the question, has a technical part of the question. Of course, I am absolutely convinced that these two amendments, like everyone else, are being invested with the intention of getting the best possible law, and this debate will lead us to it. Therefore, the essential question concerns the subject matter of the Constitutional Court's work. That's what we're talking about in the Constitution and through this whole law. The largest part of the issues to be addressed by the Constitutional Court, as it has dealt with so far, is the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of general acts, of course and of the agreement with approved international contracts, the general rules of international law, etc. There is one part of the issues that are now being introduced, which we have talked about -- individual legal acts, based on the constitutional appeal, will also be the subject of the assessment. Therefore, the essence of what the Constitutional Court is doing is to assess the constitutionality of general legal acts, i.e. parts of the law, sublegal acts and other general legal acts. These are all items, I'd better say the decisions made by the state authorities that, under the law on the availability of information, have the obligation to inform citizens, in a way that is governed by the law on the availability of information, of all this. The essence of the legislation, as proposed by the government, is that only one special procedure dealing with laws and other general legal acts enables citizens to have full insight into what is the subject of the Constitutional Court's work. So, if a citizen has the right to ask parliament, the Ministry of Justice, the BIA or whoever he is interested in, not only about general legal acts, but also about individual matters, then it is not consistent, from the point of view of the legal system, that a citizen does not have the same right to ask the Constitutional Court when it comes to the assessment of laws, regulations and other legal acts. I'm not going to get into this right now, because it's not the subject of our debate, whether the rights of citizens under the Free Access Act come true in a good or less good way. There are moments in this House when reports from the authorities on the issue are submitted, so it is the subject of the debate, but it is one acquired right of Serbian citizens and is therefore put into the Constitutional Court law in this way. What are legal-technical elements? I fully understand the motive which the two amendments have stated, it is a legally correct reasoning for all judicial proceedings, for litigation, for criminal and other criminal proceedings, for the general administrative procedure, for the administrative dispute. Whoever has a legal interest, that everyone who deals with the law knows, is qualified, in a certain way, to deal with cases that are in the process, to have access to the files, to be able to review the cases. It's so in all court proceedings. This is a special procedure. So it is, from the point of view of the legislator, about a different subject. That is why, in our opinion, it is important to give citizens the opportunity to exercise their rights as I have explained. The law on the availability of information regulates the procedure which introduces citizens into the exercise of this right. Of course, just as citizens do not come here to the Assembly individually, not in groups, smaller or larger, to seek information, so they will not come to the Constitutional Court, but in writing they will seek information; and for other things, I am primarily referring to the realisation of citizens' rights to constitutional appeal, because we expect a large number of constitutional complaints. Judges of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Constitutional Court will have one major technical, legal and technical task of setting up the Constitutional Court's work in such a way that it can function effectively, which is a matter of Rules of Procedure and Professional Services. I believe that we will have one capable Constitutional Court and Constitutional Court judges who will be able to respond to all that citizens are, in accordance with the law, seeking their rights as information, as they will be able to carry out numerous actions in constitutional complaints. On the other hand, it is up to the Government to propose an adequate budget for the achievement of such functions, and it is up to parliament to approve such a budget, because without enough money it is not possible to ensure the efficient work of any state body, so it will not be possible to ensure the effective work of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10730	I thank Minister Dusan Petrovic. The People's MP Natasa Micic, after the amendment, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is undoubtedly one of the most important laws that have come before us, and for a ministry whose head you are certainly and convincingly the most significant. I don't think you'll have a more significant law to offer us. However, this Constitutional Court law is not given the necessary importance. In fact, the government's very relationship is such that the law is proposed to us by breaking the constitutional law. So we don't adopt it at the First Regular Session, as the Constitutional Law requires, not even at the First or Second Session of the Second Regular Session, but at the Third. It's nothing new. That's what the MPs have already mentioned here. Mr. Minister, I have a question for you. I'm very interested, and I'd like you to answer. How, as Minister of Justice, you decided, and you had two choices - to violate the Constitutional Law and to pass such an important law, and to make amendments to the Constitutional Law and to have a nice time during the regular session or until the end of the regular session, we adopt this law on the Constitutional Court. So, you had a majority, since both the Constitution and the Constitutional Law voted all parties in this House, the Liberal Democratic Party did not, but if it were put in a position to decide whether we would violate the Constitutional Law or change it, believe me... I believe all 250 MPs would, and we could have finished that in an hour... Now, we begin the adoption of such an important law by breaking the constitutional law. Secondly, the relationship of the coalition majority is already well known, it is like the party Constitution, party boards of public enterprises, party State Audit Council, and now we will have a party Constitutional Court; ultimately, the President of the Republic is a party man, which is contrary to the Constitution. He can't, according to article 115. The constitution, Mr. Ratkovic, the President of the Republic is forbidden to perform another public or professional action. In this Constitutional Court Act, Article 16 regulates what is and what are professional and public actions that the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform, so analogy can also be applied to the President of the Republic. Therefore, it is not considered a public and professional function only to act in cultural and artistic, sports, NGOs, associations. That's what I'm talking about. But it's not a subject. In fact, the spirit of the law is really not bad, it is solid and there are a number of provisions on which no objection can be given. There are also a number of provisions to which there are serious objections and that is why the Liberal Democratic Party has invested more than 40 amendments. These amendments relate both to parties, i.e. initiators, i.e. participants in the proceedings, to the position and powers of the judges, to the proceedings, and to the legal fact of the decision. One of the amendments is this amendment to Article 4 whereby each person has the right to see the records under the law on the availability of public information. Mr. Minister, at least we don't really know what kind of difficulties that law applies, the law on the availability of public information. That's one thing. Secondly, we have proposed that Article 3 of our amendment be added after Article 2 - participants in the procedure have the right to see and copy the file, regardless of paragraphs 1 and 2, or the law on the availability of information of public importance. Therefore, by equating the initiators with all other persons, you literally degrade the parties in the process and violate their unconditional right of insight into the case files. There is an even sadder explanation that you have instructed us to reject this amendment. Namely, you said the amendment was rejected and you called for the application of Article 8. The Constitutional Court Act, under which the relevant provisions of other procedural laws are applied accordingly to issues which are not regulated by this law. This provision, first, also causes legal uncertainty, and secondly, can lead to willlessness, since it does not know what procedure, can be criminal, litigious, administrative, and even bankruptcy proceedings fall under procedural laws. Therefore, what is the main flaw and what you have actually lost sight of – not all parties are able to use the power of attorneys, you understand. This is how one party, which would obtain the law itself, will, for example, initiate a procedure, such as a constitutional appeal, will certainly call for this under the Public Information Act, that each person has the right to insight. They won't know about your argument and ask for Article 8 by which other procedural laws are applied accordingly, and then go to the purchase of all these other procedural laws. Just imagine the situation. I don't see why it's such a problem to add only one attitude that provides the right participants in the process. It's incomprehensible. As for the participants in the process, we've submitted more amendments, so I'd like to take the opportunity just to connect that part. For example, they are unclear, incomplete and confusing provisions of Article 80 relating to the court's powers to decide on banning political parties, associations, trade unions, religious communities and others. There is neither an orderly procedure nor a statement of evidence, nor the powers of the participants in the proceedings, nor how the reasons are established, for example, for the ban of a religious community. And there are participants absolutely deprived of some minimum guarantees of their rights. Finally, if you will, and Article 93, and I see that you boasted, the newspaper, where the Constitutional Court is actually authorized to, at the initiative of the National Assembly, examine whether the President of the Republic has violated the Constitution. Not even for the President of the Republic, except for the provision that he gives his answer to the Constitutional Court, there is absolutely no procedure in question, no evidence of whether or not he has, let's say, the right to use the power of attorney. As far as parties are concerned, they're, say, the biggest flaws. As far as the judge's position is concerned, I'd like to say that in this law there is absolutely an incorrectly regulated appointment of parties. First of all, there are no deadlines. It doesn't matter what the Constitution doesn't determine, it's the law that needs to be completed, and I think it's very important that there are deadlines for the appointment of judges. We'll get into a situation, say, some judges will retire or be prevented from working, and then we won't have a deadline and we'll get back in a situation where we have the constitutional court's deblockation, as we have today. Much more attention is paid to the retirement of the Constitutional Court judges than is regulated by their appointment. First row deadlines, second row, most importantly, appointment criteria. If you had provided for the correct criteria for the appointment of judges and had previously, and this would have been great, organised a public debate, so that there were representatives from the law school, the Society of Judges, the Institute of Comparative Law, NGOs following the case-law of the court in Strasbourg, believe that both lists would certainly have been far better. As of the 20 candidates proposed now with two lists, one suggests the President of the Republic, and the other National Assembly, or the ruling coalition, we have in fact only three respectable biographies, and everything else, you have to admit... Simply, prominent legal experts have not agreed to be placed on such a list without certain criteria and conditions. So that way you'd actually fix the candidate list. Also, as for the discharge and distance of judges, there is no authority of the Constitutional Court judges, whether he has the right to plead, whether he has the right to use a legal remedy; and why not, when all the other judges of the Constitutional Court have jurisdiction, why not also have a judge of the Constitutional Court. This way, I don't think you did it on purpose, but it's not even off, it opens up the possibility that it's actually looking at the likeness of the judge, or it's affecting their independence. This is what I'd end up with. We have made more amendments concerning constitutional appeals, procedures and legal facts, but I will discuss that when these amendments are in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10732	The People's MP Vladan Batic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10733	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I will try to explain to you the absurdity of this provision of the law that any person may request that he be given insight into the case files. You were just commenting that the citizens would speak in writing. It's in conflict with this provision of this legal standard. Any person may request that he be given insight into the case files, no written insight into the case files, and you know it. Why is that absurd? This finding that this is about free access to information of public importance, so little Perica imagines free access to information. By that logic in criminal cases, it could be the same. It is of public importance that it will be convicted in the case of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. It is the intersection of Serbia, either it will turn to Europe or it will turn to an Asian dark villa, in which it is already deep. According to that logic, any citizen can ask to make an insight into the transfer records. It's impossible, technically impossible, because as soon as this is adopted, as soon as you ignore our amendment, I will prove to you the first day the Constitutional Court is established that this is impossible. Here's why: here's the DHSS, so small and modest, it will organize that all the people who signed the initiative, and there are 20,000 of them, to amend the Broadcasting Law to cancel the TV subscription, because they don't want to watch '48 hours of wedding' and still pay it, come to the Constitutional Court, 200-300 every day. Mr. Minister, you know that's impossible. There are rules about home order. Who's going to let these people go, that 200-300 are looking for insight into the case files, because DHSS launched an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the Broadcasting Act because of a TV subscription over the count? I promise you that's how it's gonna be. How is that going to be organized? How are they going to make an insight into the case files? You will bring the whole situation to absurdity, the work of the Constitutional Court will be paralysed. Something I've asked you three times, and you haven't answered. May I have your attention, please, to hear the resolution of this question, since the minister has not answered, I will answer. Mr. Minister, I have asked you three times, when you were present and when you did not, is it true that the former President of the Constitutional Court, Slobodan Vučetic, who retired from 10 October last year, is still receiving the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court, who, according to some news, is about 230,000 dinars. You didn't answer that. Why didn't you answer? Because of the government's responsibility and your responsibility for what it is. And why is that? The Constitutional Court made a decision last September to determine the fulfillment of the conditions for the pension of Slobodan Vucic. Who was supposed to make that decision? The government of the Republic of Serbia. Has the Government of the Republic of Serbia implemented the decision, notifying the Governing Board of the National Assembly? It's not. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Slobodan Vučetic is still president of Serbia's Constitutional Court today. Today, too. Answer if you don't, Mr. Minister. Slobodan Vučetic said by demonstrating security and honesty – I am retired, but you did not allow him to be retired by the effects of that status, of course, so safe, honest and honest, it did not bother him to receive the day-to-day salary of the President of the Court because you made it possible for him to do so. In the meantime, it's Mr. Shane's amendment, he's the President of the Constitutional Court, and today he's interpreting everything. You've got columns, he's receiving fees for those columns, he's defending this nacho constitution, he's defending the government, and it suits you. Mr. Minister, it would be fair... Here some parties who received unfoundedly are reportedly not referring to the DHSS, more money from the budget than should have been asked to pay back, so it would be fair for the President of the Constitutional Court, because the government made it possible for him to pay back the difference between the pension salary and the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court. I ask you to answer those three previous questions and this question and finding today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10734	The word is made by Minister Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10735	Of course, Mr. Batic, you will get, as well as all other questions, the answer. I know that you know that there may be MPs who didn't have a job, so there's no need to be informed about it, that the Ministry of Justice is, under the Ministry Act, a legislator of the Constitutional Court Act. The Department of Justice has no jurisdiction over the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has its own special section in the budget, unlike the courts, which are in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry when it comes to finance. So, Mr. Batic, you have referred your question to the wrong address and I, as Minister of Justice, have no instrument to answer. I don't know if the Constitutional Court judges are getting the profits, not getting the profits. The government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, has instruments and you will get a safe answer to your parliamentary question. But it's not a question of your ignorance, but I suppose, the need to send appropriate political messages, which is perfectly legitimate, I have nothing against it, but it's just not good to bring confusion here, either you or anyone, especially me. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice has no jurisdiction over the profits of those persons, including judges employed in the Constitutional Court. All questions will be answered within the prescribed deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10736	I thank Minister Dusan Petrovic. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly, and then Mr. Vladan Batic, a replica, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10737	Mr. Petrovic, don't deceive the public. You yourself, Dusan Petrovic, deputy president of DS - Boris Tadic, you as justice minister and how you have ties to the Constitutional Court, have ties before it was formed. You, Mr Petrovic, came to the cabinet of Boris Tadic, brought him a candidacy for a criminal whom you propose to judge the Constitutional Court, Dragisa Slepčević. You want to open the whole case? You don't know? You know who the gentleman is? Didn't you and Boris Tadic advocate that your Supreme Court judge be President and Constitutional Court? You now tell Mr. Batic, who is right about the previous amendment and this one, and this one would make sense to him, to add Article 4, only that he was accepted first, so, after the comma, a party that shows legal interest... Like this, Mr. Batic, you see what a minister he is. Two years ago, the Law on Free Access to Information was adopted, he now comes as a resolution minister with a constitutional court law, which is yet to be formed, the nascarat law proposes, does not respond to your amendments to the SRS, before he participates in lobbying for criminals to be judges of the Constitutional Court and then comes out and says - I have nothing to do with it. You have a way. Mr. Petrovic, you have political responsibility because you are the minister who proposes this law and do not then go the wrong way to the Constitutional Court and the judges of the Constitutional Court. Em is thus a radical choice proposed by Boris Tadic, and we received this list, and you do not listen to the advice given by your colleague Krasic, or each SRS MP individually. What do you want? Should we advance your amnesty of all responsibility? We can't, and we'll always call you for it; it's Oliver Dulic, responsible for the session, you're responsible, and there's no dispute. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10738	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10739	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, of course this isn't intonated personally at your address and you know, to you and me and all the MPs present, it's clear to me, too; it's also clear to me what the authorities and jurisdiction of the Justice Minister are, I was in that position in my time, it's also widely known to everyone. Mr. Minister, I can't talk to anyone else, because you represent the government here. You're deliberately defending the Constitutional Court Act. I said and I asked these questions; I know you're sitting in the government of the uninformed, that it's already your problem, it's not mine, I've asked the questions to which the answer could be given in an hour. I know that's an unpleasant answer, but there's no reason, and the unpleasant question has to be answered. It is particularly unpleasant at a time when employees in the judiciary who have 15 or 20 times less salary than the President of the Constitutional Court have been on strike for ten days. It's very unpopular to give such an unpopular answer right now. Mr. Minister, even if you are not the Minister of Justice, even if you do not represent the Government under the Constitutional Court Bill, you are a member of the Government. The government failed to implement the constitutional court decision of September last year. Therefore, if you are a member of that government of the uninformed, it does not exclude your own personal responsibility, which is objectively not available, but please give an answer to this question. Serbian citizens are frustrated when this kind of thing is being discussed and if I had been immediately given the answer, not because of me, I know it, but because of the citizens of Serbia, we would not have repeated this on many occasions. I repeat once again, I respect you, not to you personally, but you represent the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10740	I thank the People's MP Vladan Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Dragan Todorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10741	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I told you at the beginning of the session, you should have finished the work that had to be done by now. We have done all we can to ensure that, in a way that would not affect the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly, we try to resolve the situation when it comes to a completely illegal and illegal decision taken at a session of the Belgrade City Assembly on 8 October. We've done everything we can to resolve it in a way that provides for the law. We informed the Serbian Parliament because, among other things, under the Constitution, Article 162, the Assembly is overseeing the work of municipalities. A session of the Committee on Local Self-Government has been scheduled, we have been waiting for this stenogram for a little longer, but after receiving a stenogram and per insight into the stenogram, no MP, no matter which party he belonged to, the Serbian Parliament in the Committee on Local Self-Government, had a dilemma when it was necessary to make a decision to ask the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government to, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 111 to come to know and make a decision. We have been waiting for more than a month, although you have the opportunity to receive information from some MPs here in the Serbian Assembly that the ministry and the minister react very quickly in situations where the DS's interest is concerned; without any problems, without any pressure, the minister brings solutions, even in advance, some solutions that are simply amazing. It draws attention to certain municipalities in advance that they will not accept the resignations of some committee members if they appear. About such a serious violation of the Belgrade City Assembly's Rules of Procedure, the local self-government minister did not find it appropriate to declare himself, and it has been more than a month. We patiently expected that you would solve this problem in a way that is only possible to resolve, which is that you will respect the law. Unfortunately, you did not do so, and we are forced to present all the facts, which will not only to the Serbian Parliament, but also to the public clearly present what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly and that there is no dilemma in the decision of the Belgrade City Assembly on the election of president, vice president and performer of office. You denied us the right to propose our candidate. That's the first thing. The second thing, you are not at the next session, since the president of the assembly and the vice-president of the assembly resigned, comes the election of the president and vice-president of the assembly. How did you explain that? I'll read to you here from the stenogram, just to read and finish, as explained by the head of the DS's parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly. Zeljko Ozegovic, insisting that a second session must be scheduled, that you must give us the right to propose a candidate, says this: "And, indeed, I do not see any problem that they are proposing the same candidates for the president of the Assembly, because, as we know, all the media have announced this session. All the media have announced what will happen at this session of the Assembly. So the call for this assembly arrived earlier, I don't see that it really technically wasn't possible to do it, or to submit it." This is just amazing. I'm just asking, ladies and gentlemen, why haven't we submitted proposals so far for the president of Serbia? As you know, elections for the president of Serbia have been announced a month ago, from the president of the Assembly to all DS members, that they must be carried out etc. Where are your suggestions for the president of Serbia? This is simply amazing that you have, firstly, these committees and secondly, the heads of the committee groups, or DS chief in Belgrade, even the president of one municipality and that he gives these interpretations. I just don't know where he is, which school of democracy he went to, because I know you organized various seminars, etc. I just don't know where he could, what course, at which school he could bring us these basic principles of democratic procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10742	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Momir Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to read the parts of article 42 of the current Law on Local Self-Government. Article 42 was regulated when the president of the municipality, analogous to that and the mayor of Belgrade, quits his term. Under one, when he resigns (this is not done by Mr Bogdanovic); two, if convicted of a criminal offence for a sentence of at least six months (this has not been done, the judiciary has not completed its work); under three, if the judicial decision is deprived of business (this is not done); if he ceases his residence in the territory of the municipality (not done); and in other cases which are set out by this law as incompatible with the function of the President of the municipality (not done); if he ceases his residence in the territory of the municipality (not done); and in other cases provided for by this law. Other cases provided for in this law are: if the mayor, or the president of the municipality dies. The law regulated that the president of the assembly 15 days after that, 15 days from now, must call elections for Belgrade mayor, or for the president of the municipality. The "democracy" attempt to introduce some new kind of rule over Serbia is also those 12 municipalities where more than a year of temporary measures function, as they say, there are temporary measures imposed on municipalities: in Smederjevo for more than a year, in Smederjevska Palanca for more than four months, and the law envisions three months, in Cicevic it has expired for four years. Therefore, they were mandatory. Of course, the "Minister vs. Local Self-Government" does not intend to raise this issue, as officials are in those municipalities, so-called. a temporary council, composed of precisely those that have put in place temporary measures; therefore, the ruling democratic parties, the ruling democratic parties of Serbia, are found there by some G17 or a little less, I expect to change the name of the party because how much they fall, or if there are fewer, there is always a G17 plus, when G9, G half etc. Where radicals are in power, they're trying every way they can to take power. There's your rum case, the Old Paz case, and a lot of other cases. The most flagrant violation of all possible legal standards related to local self-government is violence against democracy in Belgrade. Mr. Bogdanovic passed away... I stopped at this point that Mr. Bogdanovic died, reporting again to the Rules of Procedure, because I didn't say a third part of what I had to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10744	You'll finish next time. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10745	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will continue in one part what Mr. Dragan Todorovic was saying about Zeljko Ozegovic, who is otherwise the president of the municipality of Novi Belgrade and the head of the parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly. I am really not surprised that Željko Ozegovic presented what Mr. Todorovic quoted here and I am not surprised when I get another information about the illegal work of Mr. Zeljko Ozegovic. He was mentioned in one of the books by Prof. Vojislav Seselj "Instrumentalization of false witnesses", which is what the book is called, and there is a statement published by one man, an integral statement, certified in the Fourth Municipal Court, which at the time was an active military person and from whom his superior elder asked to testify as a witness in the trial against Dr. Vojislav Seselj before The Hague tribunal. His superior told him he received a warrant directly from Boris Tadic to literally force him to agree to testify in The Hague proceedings against Vojislav Seselj. Then Mr. Zeljko Ozegovic entered the scene, because this man, or his wife, had a temporary facility on the territory of New Belgrade. Then, without any solution, only the temporary facility, under the orders of Zeljko Ozegovic, and with the assistance of the police tried to remove the temporary facility. Of course, that's when a group of citizens gathered to prevent it, but later without any notice, which never happened, and which is impossible by law, that object was removed from that man. He was invited by Zeljko Ozegovic himself to come to his office to tell him that he could solve his problem, and that temporary facility and other temporary facilities, only to listen to Tadic and testify against Vojislav Seselj. This, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, is true, because this statement was confirmed by a man in court. I don't speak names now because I'm afraid I'm wrong, because it's 34 statements, I'm afraid I'm not wrong names, that I haven't mixed up. We will bring the book and quote it, we will read it; this man is not ashamed, because that statement was confirmed by the Fourth Municipal Court, with all the details, where Zeljko Ozegovic was mentioned in this way. If he can do that, then why can't he break the City Hall Rules of Procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10746	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party's offensive to certain municipalities and cities in Serbia has been going on for several months. On the one hand, we are all witnessing attempts to violently, counter-constitutionally and illegally take over power in municipalities where the SRS is in power and where the SRS electoral body is extremely strong. First of all, I mean certain municipalities in Srem, Rum and Old Paz. Obviously, there is strong political co-ordination to take over the two municipalities and to welcome the next local elections from the positions. It is clear to the Democratic Party that in certain parts of Serbia, as far as the electoral body is concerned, there is nothing to look for. One such part of Serbia, in which the SRS is extremely strong, is precisely Srem. The results of the elections, both local and parliamentary, show that the DS will not have a strong, stable and organised electoral body for much longer in Srem. Then what they can't achieve in the elections is they're trying to do by instrumentalising state power, "the ministry of state administration and against local self-government" and by the minister not acting as a state official, but as a party man who in all things executes the orders of his party. I said about 20 days ago at the Serbian Parliament's pay phone that about 200 police officers had surrounded the city's house in Ruma where SO Ruma is located and the head office of the municipality's president. What happened was that with those 200 police officers came a lady, allegedly from the Department of State and local self-government, who didn't want to introduce herself to who she was, or what she was, or why she came. She was introduced by police to the City Hall with the intention of seeking the seal of SO Rum. I received an answer from Minister Jocic on my parliamentary question in the Serbian Parliament on 26 October 2007. The lady, or police officers who came with her, allegedly assisted in the kidnapping of SO Rum's legal seal, claimed that there was some conclusion by the Serbian government that police had the right to intervene in these situations. As far as I know, the government's conclusion was not published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and we are facing an extremely dangerous political phenomenon that the Serbian government allegedly brings some... I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again, since I failed to complete my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10748	National MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's MP, Nada Kolundži.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10749	And then we come up with a paradoxical situation that if citizens give power to the yellow-yellow coalition, then it's okay; if they don't give power, then that yellow-yellow will take power on its own. The most obvious violation of all local self-government standards is the city of Belgrade. After the mayor died, the election was due within 15 days. They would easily have called the election if they had fulfilled all those pre-election promises. I remind you that it took three bridges to come to Belgrade, as 800m euros is the annual budget of the city of Belgrade. Can you imagine what that number is? Since he's... It's possible by system work by effect - I do for you, you do for me. Since it can be won for the tender, since you can get a commission for a job, etc., you are not happy to drop that cake. They know those mayoral elections wouldn't have anything to look for. They know that the next day not only would run those people's money and direct them where they needed to be, but they knew that they would enter the archives and many would have to go to a cold and dark place to stop them from breaking down. Of course, frightened of any future prison, and the guide goes to their mouths when they mention a 800m-euro figure a year, a dimming, "yellow-yellow" Democrats with G17 decide to find a way to retain power. If it's in accordance with the law, fine, if it's not in accordance with the law, that's up by the law. Then, to remind you how this session was going, then they started choosing V.d., assistant V.d., deputy V.d. The mayor. A language to break a gymnastics man they built to protect power. The representatives of the SRS city assembly immediately warned at the outset that there was a flagrant violation of the law, that the SRS would not allow this, that they were required, in accordance with the law, to demand, and that the president of the Assembly would call the mayor's election. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before... I'm answering again for the word, because I was just about to start reading a stenogram, expires for three minutes, re-enter me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10750	The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10751	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, members 101 and 103, I don't think there's any need to quote them. So here's the key question -- why are radicals doing this? They know that the congregation does not solve this issue, nor does it, nor does it need to be resolved. Two, they know that's not the subject of the agenda. Under three, they know it is of paramount importance for this Assembly to pass a constitutional court law and adopt a proposal for judges of the Constitutional Court to form a Constitutional Court. There's only one possible conclusion left. Radicals do not want this congregation to pass that law and radicals trying to prevent this congregation from choosing the Constitutional Court. So we're going to ask a public question -- what's the interest of radicals to do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10752	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10753	Focus a little, colleague Judjevich. I commended you yesterday, and when you started to apologize to some of them this morning, to spray your ashes, I see I shouldn't have even praised you. Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Kolundjia, this isn't some association where we came from a hobby, the citizens chose us here. Don't pretend you don't know what this is about. Today you are wondering, November 15, what the radicals want; what you did not ask yourself on October 9th when Dragan Todorovic showed up and brought a piece of the stenogram, because the man only had those replicas and his exhibitions, and now we have a complete stenogram. You have political responsibility and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia solves all the burning issues in the country. It's not that it's not possible, it's that. We're like serious people asking you not five days ago, but, if good memory serves you, but I have to refresh it, since you're honoring us now that we don't want constitutional law and we don't want the Constitutional Court... The moment that you didn't even know if you were going to put the government together, or how it would be, until Ollie and Javier forced you to, Tomislav Nikolic wrote you a letter and asked for both the Constitutional Court and all the laws of the Constitutional Law, and to gather yourself together and be responsible, which you didn't, and to do the work of the responsible MP, that the Assembly was doing its job. It's been six or seven months, and it's happened that the elected mayor of Belgrade, the late Nenad Bogdanovic, died, and then you call a session for October 8th. Worst of all, here is the stenogram, Dragan Todorovic warns you at the beginning of the session, this one of yours there "yellow" in the City Assembly and these Aligrudics, warns and says – don't do this, stop this farce, this is going to come back to you. Did you think it was so conspiracies, not conveyed by Studio B session of the City Assembly, it would end. The one called Alimpic will be so refreshed (save God as he was here when he came to the Assembly) to take office as acting mayor, and then you will appoint Hrustanovic to a non-existent function and turkey dots are not valid, we have finished the job, this one has moved on to do malfeasance, this Hague lobbyist, which Mrs Radeta has just said with her hair that she is hunting people around Belgrade to falsely testify against Professor Vojislav Seselj, and nothing. Don't, Mrs. Kolundžija, every day before the working day in the Assembly of Dragan Todorovic tells you nicely from the post of deputy head of the parliamentary group – Hope, did you solve the problem of Alimpic, violations of the Constitution, violations of laws, statutes, Rules of Procedure, and you have no answer. The problem is not only at the level of the assembly, it has reached the president of your party, Boris Tadic. You don't even know that Kostunica doesn't know that this is a problem in the state, do you? Wait, Mrs. Kolundzija, what is Kragujevac and the budget of the town of Kragujevac, and from all municipalities now to get you individual colleagues, for the Belgrade budget? Well, that, Malten, is the state of the country, with its powers, with its businesses, with its budget. Robbery, crime all over the place, and we're gonna keep our mouths shut? We won't. We will not participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until the issue of violation of the Constitution and the law and the illegal election of the unfortunate Alimpic, which will have to end up in prison. Every day, since 9 October, he has signed the virms, orders, available for billions, hundreds of millions from the Belgrade city's budget. It is a political problem, it is a problem for the Democratic Party, for Boris Tadic, for Vojislav Kostunica and the radicals will have to end it. No more normal functioning in the legislative body without it. That's your condition, take it or leave it, see what you'll do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10754	Thank you. Now I'm gonna interrupt the session by two o'clock, and we're gonna see how we're gonna proceed. So, I interrupt the session and announce a break by two o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-15-0.u10755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, awaiting response from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, today we interrupt work and resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 125 members of the Parliament. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs Alexander Marton, Aleksandra Jerkov and Riza Halimi. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Constitutional Court (Statistics) I remind you that at yesterday's part of the session, we have interrupted our work during the search of the amendment of MP Miletic Mihajlovic to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Prophets of Radeth.
