ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1711	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Rule 226, I request an explanation from the President of the Assembly. It is a letter sent to the defence minister, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, the National Assembly, the MP groups of the National Assembly, the head of the Nisav District and the General Staff of the Serbian Army. In fact, gentlemen, lately there's been an abduction of military property. When it comes to mobile military property in the last three years, it has been destroyed worth about two billion euros. The army is otherwise considered a wealthy poor man because the army has about 22,000 people with unresolved housing issues, of which around 15,500 have no apartment. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not recognise military homeless, but is ready, both in Belgrade and elsewhere, to hijack military property. This case I'm talking about here, I want to ask a question and get an answer, it's a garrison of Alexine. The president of the municipality sent a letter to the General Staff as early as April -- which is why the only artillery brigade, which remains in the Serbian Army, is moving from the garrison Alexinac to the Nis garrison. He received an answer that there are no conditions for the stay of the unit in the garrison of Alexinac and that in the bombing in 1999, part of the barracks and part of the infrastructure was destroyed, which is absolutely false, which the gentlemen of the General Staff should know, because only one object had been damaged in 1999. Plans for alienation, i.e. the return of property to the Government of the Republic of Serbia which is not necessary for the functioning of the army, these plans were made in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, this which I hold in my hand is a copy of the Master Plan – barracks that are not needed by the military, on this list, as on any list before this, there is no barracks in the garrison of Alexinac, which, gentlemen, if you have already gone that way you know that it is along the highway, between the bus station, the very city of Alexinac and the highway. In fact, it's the kidnapping of military property. (President: Time. ) But what is particularly worrying is that troops and garrisons are deployed on the basis of the plan for the strategic development of units – today, in Serbia, it seems that certain tycoons have such power that they decide on the strategic timetable of the army. Very soon you will find out who this tycoon is, who wants to take almost no money from the army of 27 acres of that country in the best place. Here I want to appeal to all the MPs to protect the property of the army. Very soon you will hear about four acres of Dedinj law, which are almost given to the US Embassy and other locations of Dedinj, which have also been attacked. Here in the neighborhood...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1712	Mr. Delic, I apologize. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1713	I'm done. In the neighborhood there is a building, Nemina 9, for which the naka of the former governments signed a contract with the military and offered 800 dwellings of 60 square meters. Here, you can see that Nemina 9 is being performed, but no military homeless man has received any of those 800 apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1714	According to the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1715	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. - the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of the very home of the National Assembly, and also outside of this home, and it is up to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs to react when it is threatened, injured, anywhere that this happens in our country. So I am obliged to point out a few sentences to what is happening today in Serbia and to all the dangers of your behaviour today. In fact, it's obvious that the government has gone into an organized hunt for anyone who thinks differently in this country, every day organized and concocted lie, in the most brutal way they invent how those who think differently from the regime, those who fight for the free word, those who are against the persecution of young people, to God, protectors of war crimes, which is notorous untrue. You're the ones who protect criminals, and I'm going to read that to you now. I apologize for plagiarizing, with permission, so it's not plagiarism, what Alexander Vulin wrote today in a few sentences. So, among other things, Boris Tadic condemned Velimir Ilic by saying that he is the leader of the road mafia, therefore, of his coalition partner, six months to five years under Article 346, for criminal association. It's just for the act of association. Bozidar Djelic, his dearest friend, accused Dinkic of being involved in masculine and national savings, and there is a legendary member of the abuse of official office, would rest Dinkic for two to 12 years. The same law would take Djelic to two to 12 years for those 11m euros, and for what Andreja Mladenovic called the treasurer Bogoljub Karic – that without a decision the court returned that money to Bogoljub Karic, and we are also coming to see who the real criminal is. Sutanovac estimated Kostunica was protecting red berets and thus protecting murderers. Thus, he qualified his prime minister for one to eight years of imprisonment, under Article 333 of Article 333 - aid to the perpetrator after a crime, and if he meant "protection" to help, then there was a member of the 310 - murder of the highest representatives of the state community and Member States in relation to Article 35, punishably as well as a basic act up to 40 years in prison. Now, these are criminals, you're talking about these criminals yourself. But don't talk about people different from you who think they're criminals because there's a great danger. I see what you're doing through your media, through B92, Pink and RTS. I see what you're doing through the media and Gjerj Sereshi and the others, which you've taken under your control. Some of you are afraid of knowingly wanting to literally challenge civil war in Serbia, that they literally want to make what exists today in Ukraine, that they want to conflict people in Serbia in the same way. Now, that's what needs to be avoided at all costs. We won't do it, we don't want it, but we're not afraid of you, not your authority, not your autocrat authorities, not the dictatorship that you're slowly but surely introducing in Serbia. Do not think differently in Serbia to condemn, prosecute these criminals you yourself spoke of, from Boris Tadic to Vojislav Kostunica, quote Velimir Ilic and Dragan Sutanovac, and do not harass ordinary young people who think only differently and different from you. Once again to remind you of yesterday's words by Tomislav Nikolic and every Serbian radical: – don't let your prosecutors lie, I warn them not to lie through the media, no Serbian radical has called for immunity and will not call for immunity. We're waiting to see if you can try to arrest us for a different opinion, for a different word, for the freedom we stand for. And we're telling you again -- you can threaten us, you can do whatever you want through your dirty media, whatever you think of. The dirtiest contributions you make, the worst scum you bring to the studio, the kind you bring in the last days, to speak against Serbian radicals. You won't scare us, freedom is most important to us, and the dark is the densest, and at least it was wrong, the blackest before dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1716	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1717	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 77. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the establishment of a committee is not completed or the committees do not function in a way that meets Serbia's real needs. Mr. President, I ask you to exercise your right to schedule a Agriculture Committee. Several tens of thousands of hectares of the city have been destroyed in Serbia these days. That's absolutely nothing to worry about. What I'm saying is that in the Valjev area, the height of the city's application is 40 centimeters, that several thousand houses, or their blankets, have been destroyed. Please use your powers to inform the Minister of Agriculture and Director of the Hydrometeorological Institute of Serbia, to organise a session of the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to explain – why is there no more than seven anti-urban missiles in Serbia today? Why doesn't 700 anti-city stations have any missiles? Why was no anti-building protection in Valjevo and its surroundings in line with Serbia's elemental need? As for this grace I hear here, I'd like to inform you that I speak for those whose salt and cake you eat in every election campaign, you're ashamed. This deserves special attention. Don't think it's important for someone who lives only from agriculture whether the procedure, which is the minister, is his deputy, and who is the director of the Hydrometeorological Institute, is respected here. It's important to them whether the state is able to protect their crops. 200 of us, out of 250, would never have gained elementary education if it hadn't been for these peasants, our good mothers and noble fathers. So I ask you, Mr. President, to schedule this session as soon as possible, to explain how it is possible that so-called. The Tuzlan corridor is not possible to protect with anti-urban missiles, because, for God's sake, it's damaging NATO aviation. What is the interest here – corridors for NATO aircraft or agriculture and the well-being of our peasants? So you have the authority of Article 77 or we will lobby one third of the members of the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and schedule this session ourselves. Also, I want to tell you that several anti-urban missile manufacturers, such as the Montenegrin producer, are no longer delivering these missiles to Serbia, and that Trajal, Krusik and Polyester are unable to provide high-range missiles. Or, let's make a deal when we adopt the budget, and according to the Slovenian model, we'll say "support fund" to pay the peasants 100% of the damage done by the city, and then we don't have anti-building protection. As much as this doesn't seem to make sense to you, I want to tell you that several hundred thousand households in Serbia depend exclusively on what falls from the sky these days. However it may seem to you, once again, I ask you, this is a very serious matter. There are ends like Valevsky, in which 10 years in a row the city practically destroys an absolute flight. So please, Mr. President, use your powers, call this session and coordinate with the Minister of Agriculture that this thing works in one normal way, if we're a normal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-29-0.u1718	Thank you. I would like to inform the MPs that at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's clubs, today at nine o'clock, a definitive composition of the president and vice president of all committees has been agreed. During today, all committee presidents will receive a letter calling for committees to be convened as soon as possible and that the Committee's constitution is finally completed, so that the committees begin to work. I hope that according to this and the Committee on Agriculture will discuss this important topic, as I hope the Committee on Defence and Security will discuss this second topic, which we are opening here today. Thank you very much. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the CRIME RULES Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, in principle. For 144, against one, it did not vote 13, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I put to the vote a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. For 146, it did not vote 8 out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move on to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the CRIME RULES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, in principle. For 147, 10 of the 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. For 147, it did not vote 11 out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA Before we approach the vote I remind you that, according to Article 119(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly consider the decision to be made if it was voted by more than half of the identified MPs. I am voting on a proposal to appoint Tamara Stojcevic as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 146, against 84, they did not vote four out of 234 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has appointed Tamara Stojcevic as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate Tamara Stojcevic on his appointment as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to take his duty. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA As the National Assembly has conducted a search on proposals for appointment of the deputy secretary of the National Assembly, we move to a decision. I would like to vote on the proposal to appoint Mr Marko Danilovic as deputy secretary of the National Assembly. For 129, against 75, it did not vote 30 out of 234 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has appointed Mr. Mark Danilovic as deputy secretary of the National Assembly. I am voting on the proposal to appoint Mr Milos Todorovic as deputy secretary of the National Assembly. For 139 against 88, it did not vote eight out of 235 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has appointed Mr Milos Todorovic as deputy secretary of the National Assembly. Let me congratulate Mr. Mark Danilovic and Mr. Milos Todorovic on the appointment of Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Thank you very much.
