ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u931	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I address on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. It is a pleasure to speak to you by day, dear MPs, but I must say that Serbia has become a night state. Parliament's president is elected at night, Parliament's president is relieved of his duties at night, Parliament's president's consultations are scheduled for night, 45 minutes before the start, that those presidents whose residence is outside of Belgrade and the helicopter cannot arrive, thus showing disrespect for their voters, as if this esteemed home was the Belgrade City Assembly, not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the debate over the draft ministry law is likely to take place at night, and most likely members of the new government will take an oath one night until May 15th. I don't think this looks like a serious state. Of course, sometimes there may be emergency situations, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, DSS and G17 plus you've had three and a half months. The reasons for waiting until the last second and keeping all citizens in suspense for three and a half months will one day have to explain to the people of this country. The explanation that our people are like this, that they solve everything in the last second, can't be considered a satisfactory answer, but I'm going to do this in more detail at the agenda point on the draft ministry law. On Wednesday, I already said from this pay phone that the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians considered it absolutely inadmissible for the SRS to be president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The reason for this is not a personal nature, but is caused by the fact that this country must not return to the war atmosphere of the '90s. For this reason, we will vote for Mr Nikolic's resolution, although I am sure he will resign before the vote. I find a long debate over this agenda point unnecessary. We've wasted a lot of time these months. On Wednesday, I also said that the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and the SVM does not want to propose members for the National Assembly expert committees and will not have a candidate for Vice-President of Parliament as long as the SRS is the president of this House. Thus, our parties wanted to show dissatisfaction with the fact that in 2007, the SRS MP could become president of this respected home, although Mr Nikolic was elected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the procedure was respected. That's where we come to the point. In just a few days, the citizens of our country have had the opportunity to see what huge damage to all of us, the economy and the reputation of our country can have when certain parties of the democratic bloc are playing with the future of this country, when party interests are placed above the state, when they give their voice to that candidate, for one of the most responsible state functions, which belongs to a party that is one of the symbols of suffering from the 1990s. These parties, and primarily the DSS, will eventually have to answer to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u932	Replica, Mr Dragan Todorovic. You have three minutes, let me remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have had the opportunity to come out on several occasions for this pay phone, people who represent themselves as guardians of democracy, parliamentaryism, the future of this country, and to believe that those who have the certificate to determine who is democratic here, who is good for this country and who is bad. Mr. Pastor is a young man, but I remember a party of the Democratic Union of Duke Hungarians from the early 1990s. For example, that party played with three leaders at the time, one was Andres Agoston, who was the party's president, Joseph Kasa, Mr. Pal Shandor. They were even in this congregation together as MPs. Shortly after that, a fight took place within the Democratic Union of the Duchy of Hungarians and took place at the expense of the party's leaders. I remember very well when Andres Agoston accused Joseph Kasu of being a dictator, as a man who trampled on a democratic procedure, even there were very difficult words about some qualifications related to Joseph Kasa, abuse of his position and alienation of large property owned by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. SO Subotica. As far as I can remember, it was, say, just 17,000 square meters of building land that Joseph Kasa provided to himself and his family, the daughters, to the greatest extent, from the seat of the president of the municipality of Subotica. Later, this continued with Istvan Ispanovic and other members of the Democratic Union of Duchy Hungarians in Subotica who misused the official position inappropriately, used it for personal purposes. Mr Pastor comes to explain here that they did not want to participate for these and these reasons, because they believe that party representatives, who received a million and 200,000 votes in the previous elections, are not what would suit Serbia or, in his opinion, should be at the helms of those institutions that should play a significant role in this period. Mr. Pastor, it is your right to participate or not to participate. Eventually, if someone had prevented you from doing so, such as, say, you prevented members of national minorities from taking part in national minority councils, then I would understand your need to highlight it here, to respect it, and that would be totally fine. I don't understand that as a member of a party that belongs to a party of national minorities, this is where you determine who is a Democrats, who is not a Democrats, who is in a democratic bloc, who is not in a democratic bloc. Please just go back a few days, to remember, I don't think it should be a great effort, what they said about each other, especially because I always agreed that, at a time when they were telling each other the truth, they were saying what they were thinking and what they were supposed to say to inform the citizens of Serbia. You now call such people who have done this a Democrats, for you it is extremely important and for that reason you return to the work of the Assembly committees. You'll propose members, I assume you'll propose vice president, etc. I don't argue that this is your right, but your reasons are very, very bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u934	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Pastor. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u935	Dear President, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Todorovic has violated Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the speaker can speak only about the issue on the agenda. Now it is on the agenda for Mr Nikolic, not Joseph Kasa on the agenda, but I would like to say that no court in this country has yet established for these 15 years that Joseph Kasa has broken any law and has committed any crime or any offence, and I will not continue to answer the charges on behalf of SVM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u936	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, then the replica Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u937	It is, Mr. Chairman, that you have lived a little bit in that role, but I ask you to respect the first dignity of this assembly, that you fulfil your obligations until the end, only then do you ask the Members of the People to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u938	Thank you for your advice, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u939	Nothing, nothing, and another time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the responsibility of the chairman first not to allow such charges to be brought in this high house. It was his duty to interrupt Mr. Pastor. Secondly, Mr. Pastor, if you remember, you are a young man, but if you remember backwards, Mr. Vojislav Seselj brought here a sheet of solutions for which Joseph Kasa gave his daughter some 17 acres of city building land at a baffle price, often for free. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the right of every MP to take his opinion from this speaker, his position, but it is the obligation of every MP to respect the dignity of all of us here and to honor this bright home. We don't allow the SRS to muddle the name of the SRS. This kind of discussion will always cause replicas, and a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and believe that we will go out, and there are 81 of us, we will go out every time. Mr. Pastor, if you haven't remembered, ask the people who were politically active at the time when your president, until yesterday's president, Joseph Kasa, was robbing by Subotica, by the system, what the eye sees, the hand doesn't leave.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u940	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Replica, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u941	You're right, Mr. Pastor, that there is no crime on the agenda. Not just Joseph Kasa, but a lot of them from that so-called. a democratic bloc, but it will come on the agenda. I just wanted to point out the part of the discussion that was about the SRS. Speaking of the SRS and its profile, I would like to remind you that in the year 93, after the December elections in 1992, in the ranks of the SRS, and in the ranks of the SRS parliamentary group, Mrs Elvira Fekete, as in today's SRS, Mr Otto Kishmarton, as well as representatives of other national minorities, is sitting. The SRS is a party that, according to its profile, gives an opportunity to all citizens of Serbia, regardless of religious, national or any other belonging, to express all their aspirations as party members and to fight within the SRS for those interests they consider to be their own, and Serbian citizens. When you, as a political party in your ranks, have a percentage of members of other nations as many as the SRS has, then you will achieve something worth respecting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u942	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Djuric answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u943	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of taking my word because my participation in the political vulturery is disgusting, but I took my word for it because my sons ask me when I return home from Parliament's session, where you were the father, and in that question, it echoes the question, where you were, Adam, from the German Nobel laureate Heinrich Bell. This House has been turning into a spithouse for days now, into a court madhouse, and that's exactly why I called in the word. The direct cause of this was also the ominous comment of some of the MPs of the success of Marija Sheriffovic, a Roma woman from Kragujevac. I won't look back on that. A hundred million Europeans were very clearly looking forward to her success. If my friend, the poet Brana Petrovic, were alive, he would have turned such a person away with the right and the right word. It is strange, however, that this came from the mouth of those who often speak of Serbia as a sacred country. Serbia has been and remained for me a truly sacred country, and I am happy that there is a walking saint in it, although I am deeply upset and sad that some do not even spare him. That syntagma was created on the ground of America, not here. I don't know how to hate, and I'm proud to have acquaintances and friends among all the parties, but I can't agree with those who did last night, we had the chance to hear it, clearly and loudly - in politics everything is allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, only Goebbels dared to make a public statement, in addition to the formula -- a hundred times the repeated lie becomes true, he also said -- all the nations use lies, but we will serve only with life's lies. I wouldn't even mention it in the temple of this mind, if some hadn't accused their political opponents as fascists. All the wounds and my generation hurt, and all the citizens of Serbia, but it made me horrified, ladies and gentlemen, to pour salt, even soda, those who are doctors by profession. The Greeks would say itra therapeutic seaton. Ladies and gentlemen, and by doing so, the historical experience teaches that those who claim to be in politics are willing to turn people and citizens' lives into nothing, to make their own country hell. We have long been in one of the circles of hell thanks to those who had long power in Serbia and Serbia. Serbia no longer needs leaders who will lead Serbian citizens into water and fire, but only leaders who are human and capable of making my children, your children, all Serbian citizens a better life. Serbian citizens have finally understood what they are able to do and what the frames are to contribute to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u944	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Here, once again to abuse this payphone and congratulate Miss Maria Sheriffovic on the success of the Eurovision Song, of course, the whole Serbian team. The word is Mrs. Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u945	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'll talk about article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and rather I would say a few things in general about this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that we have been working on since the beginning of the call, the former one calls upon the National Assembly. The position of the Serbian Radical Party on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure is that this is the most restrictive Rules of Procedure that ever existed in the National Assembly. It is amazing for me that the chairman, despite such a restrictive Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of today's debate, draws attention to the MPs that they should not use their rights under this Rules of Procedure. I am surprised and therefore I would like to remind Mr Mr Mrkonjic that Article 100 of Position 1 says to the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. I will not speak further about the other views of this article 100, it is only that the MP is obliged to, but for this speaker, to inform which member he is talking about, which is why he is speaking, and it cannot be asked that the MP from the bench communicates with the president or the chairman of the National Assembly, and that I will speak from the post about this and that member. No, but the chairman is obliged to give a word to the People's MP, that the MP behind this speaker explain what he is addressing, according to which member of the Rules of Procedure, and if in this way the MP hurts the Rules of Procedure by abuse, then the chairman has at his disposal the other provisions of the Rules of Procedure that he can apply. What has happened since Mr Tomislav Nikolic's election as National Assembly President, namely Mr Nikolic's presidency, speaks of how the president of the National Assembly should be fully respected that he treats every MP, this House, and it is unacceptable to hear any insinuations here. Of course, this is not on the chairman's soul, because any MP can say everything he thinks is necessary to say. Of course, the citizens will think about it at a time when you call an emergency election to assess what one of us said about this pay phone and how he acted. I overstepped 18 seconds, sorry about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u946	I forgive Mrs. Radetti. I accept her suggestions. The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic. As head of the parliamentary group, he will speak for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u947	Ten I'll speak now, ten at the end, to see what you say in the meantime. That's a little bit, I could start and finish on Wednesday, but I don't think it's for your needs. As I came forward before anyone knows how many hours and days to speak, I am using this time to express on behalf of the SPS a view concerning a request for a resolution of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic. I am sorry that there are no representatives of all the parliamentary groups. They're not here, I don't know why, but I'd like to make it clear that everything in politics is allowed, of course, there are never any permanent friends or permanent enemies in politics. Of course, there are only constant interests in politics. There is one question that is crucial to me: whether there is a name or a word for something called an agreement. I'm telling you openly, that's what I said at all the sessions and at public meetings, the SPS wouldn't have voted for Tomislav Nikolic if she hadn't been invited to the DSS. Not because we love Tomislav Nikolic less or anyone else, Milena Milosevic, anyone else than anyone else, but because we had a principled position that we would support that candidate behind whom the parliamentary majority stands. And if there is no such candidate, let's make most of it a party candidate who has the largest number of MPs in parliament. Mr. Wolf is right. At a meeting the night before the election of Tomislav Nikolic, the DSS leadership in my presence promised Tomislav Nikolic that the DSS votes would not be removed from the post. It is the right of every political party, I say this for the sake of morality and honesty, because I want to look everyone in the eye, and this Tomislav Nikolic, who I sat with, and Alexander Vukic and the DSS representative, with whom we agreed. Do you think the agreement to vote for Tom Nikolic has fallen from the sky? It doesn't matter what he's going to be president of the assembly for a few days. This is about whether it is possible in Serbia to vote for one and talk about the others all the worst, that one day you have a vote for that one as an argument that it is in Serbia's interest because these other traitors, and then the interest of certain states is that it has to be contained in some way by this traitoric bloc. And when you have to vote with the Democrats, then because of the European bloc you have to vote to keep Serbia from losing Kosovo and Metohija, everything can be justified. I just want to tell you, I don't think you'll ever be able to cooperate in that government, because I know well that all these years you think of each other worse than you think of those parties that aren't members of the democratic bloc, except you won't say here. You accused Kostunica of organising a murder or aiding the political murder of Zoran Djindjic. Here, and Cedomir Jovanovic has repeatedly pointed out that no political background of the murder has been detected. Find out who's stopping you from finding her. Could the SPS have arranged the murder of Zoran Djindjic? What? It's not revealed by arresting those who wear JSO T-shirts. Why arrest those who wear JSO T-shirts? Has anyone banned JSO in this country? Besides, you've been visiting that camp, I've only been in it once as a member of the Defence and Security Committee. So, on that side of that session that was on Monday, you had so many hard words. I must say, at one point I felt a little neglected. No one to attack the SPS. We are not used to no one attacking us on the political scene of Serbia. How can we live if you don't attack us? We've got to build our ratings just to stand up to what you're doing. But, of course, it's not a joke thing. I'm not saying this because I'm sorry some other parliamentary majority is being made. Then I asked, my witness is Tomislav Nikolic, why is Tomislav Nikolic elected in the first place if the government is not formed? I asked him and the DSS representatives, because I felt that the president of the assembly should also be part of the agreement on the parliamentary majority for the formation of the government. Okay, well, it's been said that there's nothing to be discussed later, but it's important to elect the president of the assembly. Why is it important to choose the President of the Assembly? That the Assembly has stability or that it scares the DS and this other block to build a government with the DSS. The SPS won't serve anyone to scare someone else. The SPS belongs, whatever you want to call them, we are one party, left orientation, democratic, which has chosen its president among the four rivals, unlike many other parties. If we're guilty of something, and every party is guilty of something, we've paid for it several times in the election. Mr. Rajko Djuric speaks of some who were in power. Here, we've been in power for ten years, and these are now seven. What are we gonna do? We're almost even. How much longer are you talking about someone who was? Do you know that the voters you address were not even born in those times you speak of? What are you talking about? Turn to the future of Serbia, don't keep looking into the past. We want to live today in the battles and trenches of Partisans and Chetniks, Dražićevci and Ljotics, I don't know what happened in World War I, Apis and all these others? Are we going to kill our rulers today, instead of changing them and choosing them in the election? Are we going to fight here today or are we going to democratically make decisions? Clean up a little bit in your heads, for this you have struggled to be a democracy in Serbia, and you have not fought to call others political vermin, especially those who have one MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the SPS will not vote for Tomislav Nikolic's recall, because we cannot change our mind at the speed of the clock. I didn't quote to Solana, Mr. Petrovic, but Solana didn't call me to vote for impeachment right now, and he didn't even call me to support your government so Tadic would have control over the security services. I don't know if the DSS got anything in the negotiations with you between these two sessions or if we didn't get any paint for free, but on our part, this is a big lesson for all of us. I'm sorry there aren't any DSS people here. Yes, I'm sorry. I wanted it to be Mr. Milos Aligrudic. He's collateral damage to everything that's happened. I call upon the Messengers to have mercy on him. It is not his fault, nor did the messengers who voted here decide it, nor did they know what was promised to whom. But the problem is that the DSS makes, in my opinion, a disastrous political move, and that move is to tear down all bridges of co-operation with the SRS, restore co-operation with the DS, and the DS has a strategic goal of reducing and destroying the DSS electoral body as much as possible. I can't help you not to work on your own damage. Only the SPS cannot, because of your position, vote for Tomislav Nikolic once, and after five days for the recall of Tomislav Nikolic. That's why we'll stay principled until the end. We haven't talked to anyone about forming a government. DSS and DSS are bleeding here. If there were cold or warm weapons, there would have been all kinds of scenes in the congregation. The DSS voted for Tom Nikolic, and now it's replacing him. The same MPs who voted yes, so you were embarrassed to vote yes. I was embarrassed to vote for the Martian, too, so I voted. To be clear, you can't make a coalition without being comfortable. In the coalition, you agree where you will find the least common interest. I hope you'll now be calling out "for the destruction of Tomislav Nikolic". Let me tell you one thing, when Hitler attacked France, the French Socialists said - Mitteran, let them arrest these right-wing men, he's fine, he won't discuss it, he won't arrest us. He started arresting communists, and they say it doesn't matter, let him arrest communists, just don't arrest us. When he started arresting the Socialists, there was no one left in France to defend him. That's why you're smart in the head. As far as we're concerned, we want every good Serbia, and I'm not sure, God help us all, with everything that's been going on. I think we have all held together a great political disgrace to the citizens of Serbia and it is indeed time to try to continue Parliament's work to still manage to maintain the view that politics is at least a little public action. I can talk for 20 minutes, no problem. Would you, Mr. Vlahovic? But I won't. I'll leave that pleasure to tell you something at the end, when you're all out of line, and until then, wait for me in impatience. Thank you. So, we voted for Tomislav Nikolic, we will not vote for his impeachment, and we would never vote for him without a radical agreement, the DSS and the SPS, not because Tomislav Nikolic does not deserve to vote for him, but rather because we felt that a parliamentary majority is needed. He was promised he wouldn't be removed. Those who promised him have to answer the question: Why are they replacing him today?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u948	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. We'll bounce away from 20 minutes 12 minutes and 40 seconds. Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the political groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u949	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we started today's debate in a somewhat reasonable time, because last night when we were finishing and when you said that it was 11.00 hours to proceed, I thought these Kostunica dolls would be at least a little more valuable than him. If he doesn't wake up by 12:00, and if he doesn't know what's going on here, it was time for your Mr. Aligrudic, who's proposing Mr. Nikolic's shift, to sit in the parliamentary bench. Like this, he's gone, he's not given any normal reason, and he's brought out many of them why Mr Tomislav Nikolic should be elected president of the Parliament, and he was right, for the sake of state stability, to have an institution of the National Assembly, to start living as a normal world. Last night, nothing he could say, nor could any argument suggest that Mr Tomislav Nikolic be relieved of his post as National Assembly President. I suggest, Mr. Mrkonjic, since it belongs to you that now, as the oldest vice president, you chair this session, establish through the competent services, where there is a proposing representative and that we can proceed nicely, and not like this, that we speak to DS lawmakers why they want to replace Tomislav Nikolic. Well, because he is against crime, robbery, kidnapping, the destruction of the state, the kidnapping of Serbian territory, and because he won against all of you in the first round of Boris Tadic. Let the one who supported Tadic come to the presidential election and talks on Monday one thing, but on Tuesday, his consciousness got confused, and on Friday he comes with a proposal to tell us what he thinks on Sunday, maybe he'll think differently. You know, from day to day, who knows how a man thinks on Sunday, which, by nature, things, is a rough day, maybe today has another idea. Come on, look, Mr. Mrkonjic, there are mechanisms, determine where Mr. Aligrudić is, even with his ears half a meter larger, but let him appear in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u950	Since there are no more bosses to report by now, I suggest we move on to discussion. The first debater is Mr. Vladan Batic, and let Dr. Zarko Obradovic prepare himself. So there is no Vladan Batic, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, I think that this initiative to replace the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should say a little more about the atmosphere itself, about what has been happening these past few days, but also over the past few months. In fact, it is definitely clear now, and I think to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that these parties that have made the assembly majority, which will make most of them for the formation of the government, are responsible for why Serbia has not formed a government in the past three and a half months. Swearing in several state interests, goals, values, fall into the water compared to what has been happening over the past few days and now we see that this deal could have been possible three and a half months ago, and that it has been delayed and undisputed by these parties absolutely bear responsibility for it. After three months of mutual accusations, fighting, threats, blackmail, ultimatums, outwitting, but above all after three months of harassing citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the assembly majority, followed by a strong media campaign and alleged support from abroad, appeared, which should hide everything that characterizes the establishment of a new assembly majority. In fact, I ask, in my opinion, a logical question: is there anyone in Serbia who can think, after all we've heard in the past three months from the parties now making up the congregation majority, that most will really do something in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? You've seen the past few days, the papers have been full of reports of political parties' views, one ministry to me, the other to you, the third to them, we to the defense, you to the education, those to energy. One internal affairs, one B.I.A., third security. Party and personal interests have absolutely dominated the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Have you heard a single statement in the public that the parties that are discussing forming a government or making a majority to form a government will insist on improving the economic situation in Serbia. Did you hear any mention of opening new jobs? Did you hear one of them mention the factory would open that one and that one? Have you heard that a law will be passed to improve the position of employees? Did you hear anyone say that would change the position of pensioners, unemployed people, the position of mothers? Did you hear anyone who mentioned that would change anything better in Serbia, except -- to me education, to you internal affairs, we'll defend you, and they'll do foreign affairs. That speaks enough of the character of that congregation majority. Is there really anyone in Serbia who can think, after all that has happened in the past few days, since Monday, and so on, after all those words of hatred spoken in that esteemed House of the People's Assembly and which the representatives of these parties have spoken to each other, not to thirds, but to each other, that these parties are really able to lead Serbia forward. Is there anyone who might think that these parties are truly democratic, as they call themselves, both by structure and by organisation, and by the way they make decisions, whether they can and whether they deserve to call themselves democratic, and others that they are allegedly not democratic. The assembly majority agreed and Serbian citizens should know what they agreed on. The deal included fulfillment, you can formulate it however you want, orders, attitudes, ultimatum, prayers, but the words of Javier Solana that Boris Tadic should control the security services. Why do I mention this -- Boris Tadic controls security services. That's what I'm going to talk about when there's a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I've looked very carefully at the Constitution, and there's nothing about the authority of the President of the Republic. They've got the job of the president of the state for the military. There's not a word about security services. I've been asking around some army people and some other colleagues who know this issue far better than I do. No National Security Council. What it means to agree, and to be the first news, to give some extra-institutional body authority, and to a man who has nothing to look for in these jobs. It's not a meeting of the president of the state with the people of the Department of Defense, it's a matter of security control. Why there is this huge desire to control security services, wouldn't it be logical to say that a law is passed that would improve the work of the security service or the laws that would establish or establish greater control of citizens over security services? This is clean, one extra-institutional body is formed to settle party needs. Then don't tell these empty stories to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that these parties have agreed on very concrete interests, and the citizens of Serbia and the interests of the state are not there. This euphoria that the parties themselves are expressing, which can be read and seen in the media when it comes to the support these alleged parties have from Europe. It seems to me our mind is extremely short. It is the same Europe, the same America that they said two weeks ago about the Ahtisaari plan on Kosovo and Metohija's independence. In yesterday's paper, black on white, Nicholas Burns and Angela Merkel, as EU chairman, and he as a senior US official, we are saying of an independent Kosovo, and they supported this government earlier today. You remember the statement by Solana, Olli Rehn and others that hold the main word on behalf of the EU. Have you really forgotten why and what these people want, and ask yourself a question, and try to answer the citizens of Serbia why they give very support to you, no, it doesn't matter, but think about why they need these pro-democracy forces, and they advocate independent Kosovo. Think about it. Then go out and tell us, Solana ordered us to do it and that, he's a great guy, he's taking huge money and he's running a policy for other people's interests. It is important to explain what this does to Kosovo and Metohija that distinguishes these three parties from other parties in the Assembly and why these high-ranking officials think you are very good at forming a government, and they are looking for an independent Kosovo. I have two more topics to mention. I think the media report on the establishment of a new congregation majority, with honorary exceptions, is far from professional and objective reporting. One real media campaign has been conducted to justify the formation of a new assembly majority by others who are not part of that majority. Since Tuesday morning, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the assembly, a campaign in the media has begun to blacken out Mr Nikolic, a party represented by the SPS, in one word, all others who are not allegedly for the pro-democracy and pro-European option. I understand Studio B, it's the city house, the DS service, I understand and B92, they publicly do what America says they should, but I don't understand the public service of RTS, because it's a public service that should serve all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all who pay the subscription. I, like most of you here, pay the subscription, but I am not satisfied, not because I am a member of a political option that is not represented in public service, but because I am a citizen who wants to hear different political views from this assembly and in Serbia's political life. The public service cannot be preceded by representatives of parties who call themselves democratic or who will form a government. I think it is also a shame for the way the Public Service works and the shame for Serbia, and it speaks of a disturbed reality that exists in Serbia. In the end, I think that the proponent's argument, the pity that Mr Aligrudic is not there, on the reasons for Mr Tomislav Nikolic's resolution, is a sort of understatement and assembly, and MPs and the institution of the president of the Assembly, and is far below the level of political and parliamentary life in Serbia. You heard the proponent's explanation: "Mr. Nikolic did a great job, excellent, great, everything is fine, but it can't be." I would understand that Mr. Aligrudić, on behalf of the promoter, said something happened from Tuesday to Sunday, Monday, Saturday, these few days, Mr. Nikolic made statements that, in our opinion, were harmful, etc., at least tried to make any sense of his initiative, and he came out here and told us - that's politics, we agreed, but that's not valid, Mr. Nikolic did well, but we want to replace him. For us, MPs of the SPS, nothing has changed these few days regarding the president of the National Assembly, and we will not support this initiative. At the very end, we have a new congregation majority, we have and, at least according to what is heard, the majority for forming a government, but the majority that, in the way of its formation and its behaviour leaves both bitter taste in the mouth and nausea in the stomach, and does not give us hope that the situation in Serbia will make itself better than it is in other ways than new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u952	The word is Mrs Milena Stankovic, and let Mr Dragan Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Chairman, the first address Mr. Tomislav Nikolic made to parliament before the election for Parliament's president, was where he said it was necessary for parliament to be established in order to bring the budget. On that occasion, he noted that it is very important that the important item of the budget be the item to refer to military issues. What upsets the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is exactly that, since they are... Yes, Mrs. Radeta, we were very upset, especially the citizens of Kragujevac, from whom I come. We of the LDP stand at the point that important state issues should be resolved at the table, not over the target. However, on Mr Nikolic's diplomatic abilities, we could see for ourselves the moment he said Serbia would never be an EU colony. Mr Nikolic, from the pay phone, insulted the memory of the first democratic prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and thus insulted civil Serbia, the one we represent here. Furthermore, on the note of two national MPs, Ms Natasa Micic of the LDP and Mrs Gordana Komic of the DS, so it would be nice to take off the badge with the figure of Vojislav Seselj, since it is not polite to wear it as speaker of parliament, he noted that the badge bears as a symbol of all those people whose human rights in this country are at stake. Let me remind you, the Vojvodina MPs have brought a badge with journalist Dinko Gluhonjic, also a man whose human rights are at stake at this time. However, the president of this parliament wore only one day. Mr. Nikolic, I will remind you that you are the president of this House until the moment the newly formed majority of these functions resolve you. In addition, I must refer to Mrs Verica Radete's statement, which said that after 2000 in Serbia, a total darkness appeared. I would tell you, Mrs. Radeta, after 2000, we, citizens of Serbia, of the civil democratic definition, breathed. Now that some of us who were in our ranks then betrayed us, and now they've betrayed you, so you're going through this hell, I'm sorry, they're going to pay for it in the election. If you'll excuse me, I remember the '90s after the poor, by the wars, by the bombing, by the information law, by the arrest of 1,200 bravest and best children of this country. The vote today on the resolution of Mr Tomislav Nikolic is a vote against those who made Serbia in the 1990s so tragic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u954	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rade Baralić and Mrs. Rade's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u955	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just called to say to the distinguished lady in the band "red and black" stendal, there are no two Serbians, my dear, there are no three or five. There may be 200 political parties, Serbia is one and only. There is no civil, socialist, radical, and I don't know what kind of Serbia. Only one Serbia, honey, writes in the Constitution and in the heart. Don't change the thesis and don't play with Serbia. It's a much bigger part than you think, because, as you've chosen to say here, we should have understood that anyone who makes a political party or by law on the basis of which minority lists are chosen can stand up here and say that there is 250 Serbia. God forbid. You fight legitimately for your political goals, expose your political views here, make a political offer in the elections, and people will value it. You don't represent any of your Serbs. You represent 200,000 citizens who voted for your list and the end. Serbia has a lot more people and a lot more hope than you want to present here. It's not about you making some sort of division that you believe in. The point is to make Serbia what we all believe. That you think Serbia is better because you represent a political programme here, that's not true. That's what anyone can think of their own political agenda and in the way that happens here. But it doesn't make sense. That's what you did in the campaign. It's not enough that you've divided Serbia into so-called. A democratic and second bloc, rather than now dividing Serbia into political adversaries. Ask Kragujevac if they are all for civil Serbia, as you say. No, honey, they're not. They're not in Belgrade either. Of us 250 each represents those citizens who voted for us here and, of course, from this pay phone and in other ways, we address others, who we want to come to us and put a ballot in the ballot box with a circled name of our political list. You are not invited to decompose Serbia in the way you do. Please stop. You have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is why I called, not the Rules of Procedure, you have violated the Constitution. One day, representatives of your political party here said that some MP... (President: Time, Mr. Baralic. I thank you. ... It reportedly expands Serbia's borders. Fifteen of your MPs are officially saying that Serbia is narrowing down 15% of the territory. That won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u956	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. The word is Mrs. Radet, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u957	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's MP I'm replicating is unfortunately a People's MP. It's your feeling, you can use a new speech somewhere else, and in Serbia and the National Assembly we speak Serbian, we write Cyrillic. It is true that since 2000 Serbia has been in the dark, it is true that since 2000 a party of the MP who spoke before his colleagues Baralic was here – who spoke, I do not know what his name is, I apologize for not remembering it, but probably not even the citizens of Kragujevac, said that he was from Kragujevac – and to remind me that there would be no confusion here, and even with the citizens who are following us, the party to whom that MP in Kragujevac belonged did not cross the censorship. So much for the party's popularity, not only in Kragujevac, but in Serbia at all. According to Mrs. Tomislav Nikolic, he insulted some first democratically elected prime minister. I really don't know how it's chosen by prime ministers and governments, if not after democratic elections. And as the prime minister she talks about came to power, I don't know if she herself participated in bringing torches to the Assembly, and stealing pictures from the Assembly, and beating up Mr Milanovic in front of the assembly, certainly representatives of her party are and certainly is the mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. And we mentioned him because Professor Vojislav Seselj published a book called "The Murder of Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic". Of course, about how there was this murder, who took him out to the shooting, who gave whom the gun, etc. I won't, because I'm a graduate lawyer, and unlike Boris Tadic, let's just say, I know that inadmissible judgments and criminal proceedings are not publicly spoken of, so as not to influence the court, as all of you from so-called. You're trying so hard to influence the court by talking daily and some special shows about the course of the criminal procedure, the alleged threats to the judge, etc. It bothers you that Zoran Djindjic is said to have been the mob's prime minister... (Chairman: Time, Mrs. Radeta) I apologize, just for a little while longer, to finish. It is true that it is a man, the Wolf yesterday mentioned some of his statements, among other things - to whom it is moral, to go to church, but you have inherited the famous question of whether patriotism is lurking on bread. That's what's left of you by Zoran Djindjic, and so raise your hands lightly from both Kosovo and Metohija and every other part of Serbia, because you're not interested in it, you're interested in your personal interests, money, crime, you're in it. Too bad, there's a lot of young people in that party, you've gone the wrong way. As for the badge, just a few more seconds, which the MP gave to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, I'm really shocked that she didn't have that badge herself and that all you human rights fighters, if you don't want to wear a badge with the character of Vojislav Seselj, don't at least wear that badge, you claim that this man is at risk of human rights. Mr. Nikolic took off that badge because we came up with reliable data that his human rights weren't so endangered after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u958	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Natasa Jovanovic, then Mr Dacic according to the Rules of Procedure, and Mr Petrovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman, I have to report the truth for the sake of this, and it's my duty to come from the radical forest and the Kragujevac, and I recognized myself in Mrs. Stankovic's discussion. Exactly, Mrs Radeta, the censorship of the party and the politics of Cedomir Jovanovic did not cross to Kragujevac and will not cross, because there live people who have a sense of responsibility for their country and people, primarily because of the fact that more than 30,000 of our exiled countrymen live in Kragujevac because of the occupation in Kosovo and Metohija and because they fled before the Shiptar terror, and first of all because of the fact that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is the president of the National Assembly and the most popular politician in the country, in the elections of January 21st in his town, is on the list of SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj, whose first candidate was, won 28.8% of the votes, and we also beat Veroljub Stevanovic, who is in power, so-called. A national coalition of DSS-NS, and DS, and what about you when you didn't even pass the censorship. As for young people, Mrs. Stankovic, in Kragujevac, you're trying to be a reasonable woman, it's just an unreasonable policy you've entered. Serbian radicals are proud and proud of it, especially me, because of the fact that in the five municipal committees of the SRS in Kragujevac, I don't know if you have five local committees, five municipal committees in the city, in the City Committee of Kragujevac, young, professional, educated people, people who are patriots, people who carry pride everywhere and in every place badge with the image of Prof. Vojislav Seselj. These are people who are happy about the fact that when they go out to the town of Kragujevac, with the intention of seeking support for his rights and for his giant struggle in The Hague, at the checkpoint, just 10 meters from your party's premises, thousands of Kragujevacans approach, as well as young people, middle-aged people, people of the elderly, who are saddened by the politics that you praise from October 5th to today. Therefore, you can trade, you can also pay the most expensive rooms in any city, you can have no idea how many billboards, Chad can come to you every day, drink with you in Kragujevac coffee, but this policy in Serbia, in which citizens who love their homeland live, and who, above all, appreciate and proudly point out how happy they are because there is such a hero in a people like Prof. Vojislav Seselj, your policy can never have enough to cross any censorship in the heart of Serbia, in Shumadija. Politics by Tomislav Nikolic, his honor, his reputation and high morals and what he did for both the SRS and the people, will always win both in Kragujevac and in Šumadija and in all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u960	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Mr. Ivica Dacic, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u961	Since the topics are serious, in order to expose you, I want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm not going to ask for a vote on that. Namely, our MP Rajko Baralic spoke to a respected colleague, I think his name is Mrs. Stankovic, "my dear". I'd ask him not to do it anymore or at least leave it to the younger ones. And as for us lefties, we can go through with our heart, because the heart is on the left side, and even such lovely stenographers will never be able to get a compliment on our side. Therefore, as president of the parliamentary group, I would like to reprove Rajko Baralic that this is not a pay phone from which the hearts of MPs are won, but the hearts of voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u962	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u963	Mr. Chairman, Zoran Djindjic was the president of the Democratic Party, and as an authorised representative of the DS Parliament Club, I have the right to reply, because he was the subject of an exhibition by Mrs. Radet. I've said countless times from this pay phone that at this point there are irreconcilable differences, there will probably be a long way ahead, between DS and SRS policy. This is the fact of our political life, and thank God for the fact that citizens are pleading and they make a decision on what kind of majority and what governments in Serbia will be formed. No matter how hard I try, I can't get used to the hate speech, which from time to time gives off this pay phone. That's what I was also talking about whenever a curse, an insult, a lie, everything that such a bad emotion, such as hatred, has in its heart, comes out of this pay phone, it's a sign of weakness, a great weakness towards the inability to question what makes the great politics of Zoran Djindjic, a major historic change on which Zoran Djindjic was headed, based on the shift and thank God in this Serbia in 2007. Serbia will continue to go where it started after the September 2000 elections, will continue to go where it went on October 5th 2000 and will reach Serbia where it is headed, will be among the civilised, organised European states and peoples, and that is a great credit for Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u964	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Mr. Wolfie and Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u965	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mr Petrovic, every time he doesn't know what to say, when he doesn't know what's on the agenda or what's supposed to say, then comes out and says "lived by Zoran Djindjic, lived by the European Union". On the agenda if we had music education, art, anything, he would only have the answer "lived Zoran Djindjic, lived the European Union". I came out to explain something else, and I will return to Djindjic and the EU. First of all, Mr. Petrovic, you keep talking about some hate, and you get hate out of your eyes. The DS has hate as its code, as a political code, you do nothing but hate political opponents. The day the National Assembly president was elected, a significant institution of the Serbian state was formed on that day, a corporal reported on Solana, called Boris Tadic, to say that it was a harmful move, such as with his possible hatred, only because he was finally afraid for his chair, because he realized he was leaving irrevocably, that there was no end to all this. Then you go out and say, "That's what they hate." Who do we hate? So we don't hate you either, Mr. Petrovic, who burned the congregations, lynched political opponents, or you who arrested 12 or 13 thousand people, so you raised 50 or 60 charges, or you who voted from Bodrum and Thessaloniki, or you who were here persecuting the MPs and everyone else who thinks otherwise, or you who today are trying, who in two days showed you hate, in two days the most brutal hysterical campaign against Tomislav Nikolic, just because he became president of the National Assembly, because I guess nobody has the right to be anything in this country except you from DS and your DS partners. But people see who hates you, people can clearly see it, your hatred is unlimited, and hate makes you angry and it's bad for you, not for us. As for Mr Djindjic, he is otherwise known for many statements, mostly forgeries of someone's statements, plagiarists, and he had some original ones. I'll bring a few books that I'll show during today's debate, whose headlines were plagiarized by Dr. Zoran Djindjic in his very famous statements such as "gobble up a frog and get it over with" and so on, so you'll see who wrote all that, what was said in those books and what was it about. But Zoran Djindjic is best known for several statements. His first statement is, and I see that Vojislav Kostunica is now fully applicable, the true successor of Zoran Djindjic according to that statement is Vojislav Kostunica, which is "whom is up to morality, let him go to church". It is the essence of political action both Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica. The second, about the attitude towards the people, towards the workers, who is an anthological statement, when he fired strong workers, when the miners were left without bread, then Zoran Djindjic, the great European leader, came to say, sow peanuts. He didn't know if he was sowing, whether he was planting, or what he was doing, so so so he was both sowing, so plant peanuts, and then live out of it, and I don't care. It's a European leader. Whether it was a European leader, so a little bit, so he hung out with the worst criminals or not, I don't know who.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u966	Time, Mr. Wolfie, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u967	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy, as you know, our time is yet to come. So, Mr. Petrovic, as far as Zoran Djindjic is concerned, you can't break into people's book promotions anymore, ban people from saying what they think, you can't decide anymore, and you can't order that it doesn't go through for years, two or three of someone's deaths, to name streets, boulevards, and I don't know everything. Wait, history will tell you everything. Finally, around the EU. Last night I asked a question I didn't get an answer to. You don't know what to say then live Europe and wave a blue and yellow flag and you don't care about everything. Does Olli Rehn advocate independent Kosovo, Mr Petrovic, what is your answer? The answer is that Olli Rehn advocates an independent Kosovo and is in a genuine diplomatic offensive for an independent Kosovo. Is Javier Solana, who killed many children in our country, whether Javier Solana advocates an independent Kosovo or not? Yes, Javier Solana, another EU leader favours an independent Kosovo. Then why are you in favour, Mr. Petrovic? To support Solana and Rehn in their diplomatic initiative to take Kosovo away from us as soon as possible? No, they're much worse than Solana and Ren. Solana and Ren are chasing to kidnap someone else, and those from the DSS are chasing to kidnap what's ours, what's supposed to belong to them and what's supposed to be kept as their sanctuary, and that's our country, that's our country, because we don't have a spare homeland. I know that, Mr. Petrovic, none of this is particularly important to you, which you care about. You're gonna show up again on TV, say "live European Union." Those who robbed and robbed Serbia's B92 state for 10.5m euros in co-operation with Mladjan Dinkic, based on a business space, which pays at 4.5 times the market price, at 3.474m2 in the city's most elite part, for all of this, Mr. Petrovic, you don't care, because they will say to bring in a criminal, a stock exchange speculator who will say he is guilty of Tomislav Nikolic. It's our fault, I'll tell you in the open, for one thing. We did a lot of work, we did our best in the election campaign, in every place, sometimes at 16, 17 and 18...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u968	Please, Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u969	I'm done. Here's the point, Mr. Gristle. (President: Okay, say the point. )......................................................................................................... And that is, the next time the elections are discussed, as you have now escaped from fear, along with Vojislav Kostunica, we will have to work 24 hours to save Serbia from such ones as you, Mr Petrovic, and your coalition partner and continued Djindjic's worst possible thoughts, Vojislav Kostunica. We will defeat you all together, we will clear you from the political scene together and bring salvation to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u970	According to the rules, Mr. Paja Momchilov and Mr. Petrovic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Article 104 of Item 2 which reads, "People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect." It's about Mrs. Stankovic's exposure, which she spoke here earlier. There are a lot of new members here, a lot of young people, and that's good. But for a few days now, we have been listening to strange statements from that very younger part, which have led us to great doubt. In addition to imputing Tomislav Nikolic what he didn't mean to say, use something that was absolutely political untrue. You say -- Tomislav Nikolic said it is necessary to raise the budget for the military. If you are seeking Euro-Atlantic integration, see how much the Atlantic Pact and America stand out, specifically, for military purposes. Just look at it and see if it's something that's not legitimate, and it's consistent with what you're trying to do. Secondly, you say you are a representative of civil Serbia. It would be nice to take your word for it, but I trust not a good witness more than works. The civic group says that liberal democracy is what it believes, and the foundation of this liberal democracy, as far as I know, is textbook things, is respect for civil freedoms. What are civil liberties, may I repeat, since you absolutely do not rule this matter. It's freedom of speech, freedom of the press, religion, conscience, movement, association. Some of you say the SRS should be banned. It's about respecting association. We have never said in the SRS that it is necessary to ban anyone who violates the Constitution, who is absolutely against the national and state interests of the Serbian state today. It doesn't occur to us. You're for lustration, there's no freedom of speech, there's one thing. We would never lustrate you, but we will have to call you to answer if you have violated the law and the Constitution of this country. With circumstances and coalitions like these, it is also possible to do so. You're talking about tolerance. You know the definition of tolerance: allow the opposite opinion. In the end, what is totalitarian democracy? Someone got angry when there was a sign that totalitarian democracy was somewhere along with fascism, so it bothered him, and I'll read you what totalitarian democracy is, you know. "A absolute dictatorship, which is portrayed as democracy, usually based on the leader's claim to have a monopoly on ideological wisdom." That monopoly here is demonstrated, not by most but by minorities. Emphasizing the system of values that has been destroyed in Schiller, which is reflected in the bodyguards, which is reflected in the enormous wealth of the elite that leads us to a happier future, but we will talk about it when we talk about the government and the ministries a little more, and explain it to the citizens of Serbia. I only ask the Democrats to understand that democracy is the rule of the people, that participation is in power and in the interests of the people. What is the people's interest that you've led to in seven years, when we have over a million unemployed, when there's a salary of 28,000, not to count further, and seven years you've already had no war, no sanctions. That's the question you need to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u972	The discussion continues, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was simply difficult to isolate from the debate, which you conducted with the DSS or in a mutual debate, whose accusations were more difficult. What's basic, they were all true. It seems to me that from one statement, it could come out to show the essence of things, so that you and the DSS would show up, and the DSS, who seem to have lost their hooligans, or you didn't seem to have returned to them, so they don't show up here in the O.R. I won't tell you what MP said, he'll probably recognize himself, but let me read you a stenogram of what you said about the DSS. ''If you noticed, the only party in Serbia that has no ideology and identity is the DSS. No party in this House can go with everyone. There is only one party in Serbia that can be with everyone, just to be in power, it's the DSS. ''Well, if the problem with them is what I can do with everyone, how do you get over it and you show that you can do with them, or that you can do with everyone. It's not weird at all. Before the request came for Mr Tomislav Nikolic's discharge, they asked me what I think is the possibility of DSS and DSS agreeing. I honestly said, if I were to take care of what's best for the SRS, I'd like God to punish them and find a chance to make a deal. But believe me, they've dug so many deep trenches, they've been digging them for years, I just don't think the moment can come that they'll get over it and they'll make a deal. Fortunately for Serbia's citizens, you managed to make a deal, because you're absolutely the same, you come from the same nest. However, some earlier, some later set out to leave the nest. Some of the wings didn't seem to be very strong at the time, so they were falling, and the consequences are seen day and day. The fact is, you all came from DS. The first misunderstanding in the DS, I remind you, to remind the citizens of Serbia of these past 15 or 17 years, that they know who they're dealing with, broke out in your nest in 1992 when the federal elections were called. Then one part of the DS agreed to go to federal elections, the other part didn't, so because they disagreed they founded their parliamentary group. So in 96, a part of the DS participated in the coalition together, the DSS did not participate. Only after 10 years, in 2000, thanks to the Americans, did you unite or return to the same flock, in order to achieve the interests of those who could not do so - by bombing. Let me remind you, right after that return to the flock you came to the Serbian Parliament, where you were based on the strength you assumed both parties had, that is, DS and DSS. After a very short time, the DSS ministers left the government of Zoran Djindjic. At the time, they claimed to be doing it for crime, because of the chaos that was created in the state. That's why you expelled 54, I think, the DS MP from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The whole of Europe had to stand up to prevent this violence in Parliament and to return DS MPs to parliament. Do you remember the arrest of Mompal Perisic? Let me remind you, it wasn't that long ago. When Momcilo Perisic was arrested for teaching secret documents to John Najbor, a meeting was held at Vojislav Kostunica, then president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. You remember the daunted faces and Zoran Djindjic and other representatives of the then DOS-akojis came to the Federation Palace and when Djindjic asked Vojislav Kostunica, because it was said they would have the opportunity to see hours and hours of video material that was recorded during the betrayal, or spying in favour of some foreign forces, so when he was asked by Zoran Djindjic - so there is also me, he says - there is no first 34 minutes, and all the other time seems not only Zoran Djindjic but many of you were there. After that, there was the murder of Momir Gavrilovic. Have you forgotten how you accused each other, who killed whom and why Momir Gavrilovic was killed? How come you forget such important and difficult things so quickly? Have you forgotten when you accused the DS of having organized centres in the state, which are the only ones aimed at listening to the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Vojislav Kostunica? Have you forgotten the election for Serbian President in 2002? Then came the height of understanding and co-operation between DS and DSS. Do you remember the rally in the Square of the Republic and the speech of Zoran Djindjic? Do you remember, gentlemen, who Zoran Djindjic called a drone? Did you forget that? Where's the drone now? Looks like you took off his hooligans, so he became a drone. Now the drone's working. It suits you. How come you forget so quickly and believe that Serbian citizens don't remember everything you've done until then? And then there was the murder of Zoran Djindjic, a state of emergency, 13,000 people were arrested. From that number, I don't know if anyone's been processed. Millions of Serbia's state will have to pay off all those who have been arrested under the law. That's when you arrested Bulatovic and Acu Tomic. Gentlemen, Mr. Bulatovic will stay with you in this government. I don't know how you can get past it, and I don't know how they can get over it either, or they're mutual accusations of involvement in the murder of Zoran Djindjic on the one hand and on the other, in some way true. Have you forgotten the statement of current government technical secretary Dejan Mihajlov, who called the complete top of the DS and accused them of being involved in the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic? How can you get over it, or he really knows something we don't know, and this court, which was in charge of establishing it, didn't do it. How is it that you go over the facts that were said during the debate when it was on the agenda to elect the President of the Assembly? Here you are very precise, unequivocally told that the reason the DSS will not be in the coalition with you, fear that there is justifiable doubt and fear that you are traitors, that Boris Tadic is a traitor and that that is why I cannot go with you to the government. That's what you asked them from the pay phone and they confirmed it to you. How can you and them come to an agreement after all and be in the same government? There is only one answer: you, unfortunately, have no morals.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u974	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. I remind you that the SRS has its own fund of time that they use. Here you go, Dr. Rangelovic. Let Mr. Milisav Petronijevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u975	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I was preparing my presentation, I changed my concept several times, trying to bring tonight's discussions of my fellow Members into contact with the topic of this agenda. That didn't work out for me. The speaker was told by whoever arrived, whoever he wanted, the Rules of Procedure was baptized flagrantly, no one cared about it, and time was running. When asked why such discussions, why such a waste of time, some colleagues from the Radical Party said, so that's politics. Gentlemen, it's not politics, it's a waste of time. If I am not mistaken, the topic of this agenda is to resolve the president of the National Assembly, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, which means that two questions should be answered: what are the reasons for his resolution and who is responsible for this political scandal in Serbia? The reasons for his resolution were sufficiently clearly spoken by my LDP colleagues. There's no need for these reasons to be repeated here and we're wasting our time again. Enough to say one sentence, Mr Tomislav Nikolic needs to be relieved of his duties as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because he is a political representative that is harmful to Serbia. A response should also be given to who is responsible for such a political scandal in Serbia. The culprits are DSS, led by Vojislav Kostunica, because they have now caused this political scandal and are now enjoying the fruits of their blackmail by reckless blackmailing Serbian citizens and their political partners. Who are the accomplices? Those who co-habitated with them, who supported them and who contributed to the importance of the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica in this Serbia that they do not deserve, and what should they not have? And, come on, people, let's end this agony once.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u976	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u977	I have to admit, I don't understand these party people, as the LDP said or something, the back-up game of Agim Ceku. Why are they coming out for a pay phone? You've been going out here, talking nonsense for five minutes, to say, let's not waste any time. Come on, cut the crap so we don't waste any time. The biggest waste of time is when you go out for a pay phone, or God forbid someone from DS or DSS, not the same thing. That's why it's best not to waste time, let the people who have something to say say, and those are representatives of the SRS, and you sit, shut up and listen to what smart people say, and learn something. Now we are going to analyze all these policies, the common policy of Vojislav Kostunica, Cedomir Jovanovic and Boris Tadic, on the one hand, and the politics of Vojislav Seselj and, as you say, Tomislav Nikolic, on the other. What is the view of this disastrous policy of Tomislav Nikolic that you are attacking today? In that Tomislav Nikolic loves his country, unlike your broad coalition from Cedomir Jovanovic to Vojislav Kostunica, which is always with his people, because he respects the law, because he believes that Kosovo and Metohija are and must be an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, unlike you. Tomislav Nikolic doesn't ask for anything else, he just wants us to be on our own, but not to be anyone else's, to have our own country, to have our own country, which we will love and respect, and nothing more. It seems to be a crime, both by you and by Vojislav Kostunica, and by Boris Tadic, Corporal of Solana. What's that? What do you have to say, either 15 years ago? You have no idea what happened 15 years ago. Your party either existed or you knew it would exist, nor did anyone dream that such a criminal idea could be born somewhere, which would support ballistics in Kosovo and Metohija. You could've just called it short, as a security service or a state security service, a SNB party of the worst ballistics, and solved all the problems in every way possible. It is nice now that you are going to the coalition with Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic to replace Tomislav Nikolic, so that Serbia sees that all the worst have gathered on one side. They can't all be the worst if they're not there at the same time, right, sir, who came up with this theory of evolution, and his copy disappeared today. Find the exhibitor, he disappeared from your front row today, maybe something happened to him somewhere. Take care of him, it's dangerous when an exemplar disappears from here. When Cedomir Jovanovic talks about politics and the future, when Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic talk about politics and the future, what is the policy of the future? To say thank you for taking our territory, thank you for killing our children, thank you for raping our country, and we still like to tell you to keep doing it harder and better, is that it? For that you must be both masochists and psychopaths, and nothing more. The citizens of Serbia are neither masochists nor psychopaths, they will not say hit us with a mallet on the head, we are beautiful, very beautiful and will be even more beautiful. That's what Mr. specimen can say. He's always nice. Whatever's going on, it doesn't matter to him, because he's going to have a corporal from Solana say, "well done, master," even he's going to laugh behind his back when he slams the door, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u978	Please, Mr. Wolfie, look at the clock, the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u979	Mr. Mr. Gristle, it's not like you're worried about these Democrats or I don't know what, I'd be surprised, I wouldn't expect you to.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u980	I'm just trying to make some order here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u981	For us, Serbian Radicals, the great discovery of last night and morning, all together in one place, gathered from Vojislav Kostunica to Cedomir Jovanovic. Those who killed and defended the prime minister, those who defended and killed Prime Minister Djindjic, those who said he was the most immoral, those who loved him most, here they are today, all in the crowd. The only thing that matters is that you are replacing Tomislav Nikolic. I'm finishing up, Mr. Grouchy. Why does it matter? I repeat because of the citizens. There are two reasons. The first is that Agim Ceku said he congratulated the formation of a democratic bloc government, as the government will successfully co-operate with the independent Kosovo government. It's the closest party associate you belong to, but apparently the DS and DSS. That's why they needed you to make these deals together now. The other thing is that you've scared the choice, that you're running away from choices like the devil from the cross, which you know you'd never get as many votes as the people would now give to the Serbian radicals, I'm telling all of you together. After all, the people saw some copies, and today the people are all clear. It is clear to him who today advocates independent Kosovo and essentially, not only formally. He knows who's ready to defend Serbia. So don't lecture us about 91, 93, 1997 anymore, because you don't know anything about it. But go out and tell what is the reason for the agreement between Vojislav Kostunica and Cedomir Jovanovic that they are all going against Tomislav Nikolic together. Go, we've been waiting for all of you, and we're going to defeat you, because that's what Serbia wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u982	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word is according to Businessman Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u983	I'm advertising Article 104. It would be fair to talk about the reasons for Mr Nikolic's shift, so at least don't use those words of yours that are directed against you and that we have never said in our lives. The word "cohabitation" first appeared in 2003, when you tried in all ways to convince Vojislav Kostunica to form a government with you. Mr. Labus used the word "cohabitation", so we all in wonder found who we were dealing with politics about what would be in political life and what cohabitation was, so we searched for the dictionaries, we struggled, and suddenly we find that word means living with someone, sharing space and in Serbian the well-known "cymers". I guess we know there may be men among you, and we Serbian radicals would never want you to be our roommates. Don't tell us to put it in and tell us that we're with someone now in cohabitation. Look, it's back to DOS. I guess that's yours, I guess. It's your cohabitation. Gentlemen, there's a beautiful saying in Serbia with us - he who holds the ladder and he who steals, they're both the same. We heard, and now let the Democrats explain who gave it, and who held the ladder, who is the traitor, and who is the patriot. I guess whoever was watching, while the guy was carrying the document and teaching foreign intelligence, is the same as the one he turned in. I guess the one who stole, and the one who kept the ladder, I guess they're both the same. To whom you're explaining today, you're talking about cohabitations, who you're talking about honesty, who you're talking about democracy to. Your democracy met with the introduction of the state of emergency, when you arrested 12,000 Serbian citizens, your democracy was seen when you killed Prime Minister Djindjic, and in half an hour you announced who the employers were and who the perpetrators were. Nowhere has such an express investigation been completed in the history of killing one, and even on the spot when they catch a criminal, the police don't come out with the data and say we have a suspect. You knew everything in half an hour. Gentlemen, once you've known, come out with the names of the commanders and those who committed that crime, not to convince us here. You just need each other when you see that you don't have a majority. Then everybody get together, then it doesn't matter what you said about each other, it doesn't matter what you think about each other, how you propose today, if you vote no confidence in the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolic, and then we'll remind you something else about your moral principles and democratic principles, how you come to the elections, and how for you, what are the rules for you, what is democracy and what is moral and immoral for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u984	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u985	Mr. Vice President, I have called upon my right to reply. I don't know if you can hear what's heard from mine, but my name has been mentioned several times. If you think that as an MP I have no right to a replica, I will return to my post politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u986	I'm sorry, I thought you called in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u987	No, I didn't, I didn't notice any abuse. I must say that, unlike most of these in the hall, we are proud to talk today about the President of Parliament during the debate on its resolution, the same thing we said Monday during the debate on his election and that our parliamentary group, together with several other parliamentary groups, is politically consistent on the matter. As for the coalitions, which are allegedly made on Tomislav Nikolic's shift agreement, I could agree with you, Mr Vucic, provided the DSS answered my question yesterday on which issues were formed by the parliamentary majority that came up with the request for Tomislav Nikolic's replacement. Until we get that answer from the DSS, we won't have any arguments that could put an equal sign on this issue between Vojislav Kostunica and 11 MPs of our party. I do not want to speak on behalf of other MPs who also support this request. What I think is the problem of this debate, and it is actually about the role of you, Mr. Vukic, or you, Mr. Nikolic, the people who made this political agreement, is actually your assessment that this agreement will be more correct than those agreements that you have negotiated with previously. With all the anger that exists with you and dissatisfaction, I must say that the agreement was not made in parliament, that the participants of that meeting, and he was not in parliament, you know where he was, did not explain what was discussed at that meeting. That we heard your attitudes, but we didn't hear the position of advisers or cabinet chief Nikitovic. At that meeting was not Vojislav Kostunica, and if he was, then he must answer us here for reasons of changing his political stance. I repeat, if the reasons are the same as ours, and they relate first and foremost to the political role of Parliament's president in the past, the mistakes he made during the course of his duties and the damages stemming from his election to the position of Parliament's president, then that's fine with us. It's not a coalition, we're very different from Kostunica, and I don't think we should waste any time on that. As far as controversy is concerned about us as the guardians of civil Serbia, we really are. This does not mean that there are two Serbias, which means that we are thinking on behalf of the different Serbia, Serbia that is ashamed of what the government did during the 1990s, which is different about its murdered prime minister, Serbia that has the strength to say that Tomislav Nikolic is a serious political opponent and that once again, I do not agree with him at any point that we have talked about today or ever in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u988	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zarko Obradović and his colleague Slavisa Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u989	Thank you, Mr. President. I was offered to go to the pay phone by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic and his statement on what Serbia should be ashamed of. Mr Jovanovic, for the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will not say for everyone, but for the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have at least a call of dignity, morals and relations positive to the state, we should be ashamed of all those of Serbia who kidnapped and counter-constitutionally extradited the president of this same Serbia, who was four times directly elected by citizens for the president of the state. It is a shame that will remain remembered and recorded in the history of the world. You extradited, kidnapped and extradited the president of the Serbian state. And you to teach someone morale lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u990	Mr. Slavisa Topalović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u991	Mr. Chairman, I know you're a builder and engineer and you've done some things before you should have done it, but I think you should stick to the Rules of Procedure. Cedomir Jovanovic was looking for a replica, I called the Rules of Procedure and I have a championship, and you let him go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u992	I'm sorry, I was wrong, I realized that Mr. Jovanovic had reported to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Slavish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u993	And how do you explain that to me before the deadline for Mr. Zarko Obradovic to get out before me, and after me, he reported to me in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u994	And I apologize. Personal sympathy. Give me one personal sympathy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u995	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, Mr Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, unlike your previous performances, you have now acted calmly, steadily. I'm interested in how you did it, but good. What's this about? I'd like to remind you that this payphone is not a terrace jar, so when you come out and yell here and we should all listen, to keep quiet, to be afraid of you. I would refer to Mrs. Radete's comment, as far as you and your housing issues are concerned, whether the Starships will be angry with you or not. Mrs. Radeta, I don't think he's going to be angry, there are indications of some of the citizens of Zemun, who I owe as an MP elected by the citizens of Zemun, to explain to you and to tell you here. The people of Zemun say, "Look out, there's not one man talking." It's a group of citizens who say there's a street in Zemun called Pregrevica. In that street of Pregrevica, on the coast of Danube, there is a magnificent villa with many squares. Citizens claim Cedomir Jovanovic comes there all the time, and even some claim he bought the villa. I don't know, and I don't want to make mistakes, I'm not going down that street, and I haven't seen anything of you there, you know. Since a lot of citizens claim that, I'm in doubt, I couldn't even say it, but I trust the citizens. The other thing, they explain it and say "Downs," Mr. Jovanovic, you have some big regret for Schiller, because it's a mile away from Schiller Street and from a building that's been shot down by Dusan Spasojevic-Siptara just a mile away. So, I guess you're emotionally bound to Zemun and Schiller, because this villa of yours, and we've even heard it's being led to your father-in-law, on the coast of Zemun, comes out on the coast of the Danube itself, reminds you of a little bit of the project, and what it looks like that house you used or got or I don't know what, I can't say there, from Krmivoj there in Banovci, which you have a garage, so you're going out on the Danube with a speedboat, so you come and you know, you know. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Jovanovic, you're the one who keeps honoring and speaking here about the murder of Zoran Djindjic. We are witnessing testimony in the Special Court the other day, when a certain Tojaga, accused, presented his defense for his own benefit, so he said, that's what Mr. Vukic explained to you the other day and he talked about it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u996	Time, Slavisha, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u997	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I think you've broken the Rules of Procedure twice on my first call and you might be able to...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u998	That's no reason why you don't respect the weather, you respect the Rules of Procedure, I apologized.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u999	I want to respect, but I can't see from here, I'm far away, I need you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1000	I'll tell you now, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1001	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Here's a commendation for you. Article 104. So, Mr. Jovanovic, Tojaga said that you obtained the gun and that you even said to delete the numbers on that rifle from which the prime minister was killed. The next day it came out in various daily newspapers, among other things in Justice, you've heard of Justice, I think it's the most read newspaper lately. You have not denied it anywhere that they have stated, and lately it is constantly mentioned about the trial, and before that, somehow Cedomir Jovanovic, is constantly connected to it. It was said right then that you were on that fatal 12th of March skiing in France. I'd ask you to stop talking about Zoran Djindjic. I'm putting myself at your disposal and I want to do it for you, there's a book by Professor Vojislav Seselj called "The Murder of Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic". As a fellow MP from this House, I make myself available to you, I will bring you this book that you take to read and get to know the content a little bit. But, under one condition, I'm sorry, since you were once in the DS and now you're in that lap of LDP, yellow, I can say freely, you're known not to carry out your duties, I'd ask you, if you can, 500 dinars to me first, and I'll tell you the book then, to be sure and I don't have to pay for it. As far as I'm aware here, just a little bit more and I'm finishing up, as far as I'm concerned, everyone's a little tired, unsanitary, you know, it was late last night, and today we're going to continue again, and how long it's going to take. I'd like to ask you, I've had two double coffees and it's not worth it, to tell you the truth, I'm getting sleepy again, it's tired, what are you using to stay so awake?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1002	Get some rest, Slavisha, it's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1003	Fresh, here are two more sentences, fresh and sleepy after all these hours spent here. Maybe it's some kind of system of value to explain to us or something. Thank you, Mr. Grouchy, don't pass me by next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1004	No, Mr. Topalovich, thank you very much. Aleksandar Vukic has a replica of Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's presentation Here, they tell me it's up to me, so now I apologize, just whenever the Wolf comes, then I don't see half the hall, please, and that's not negative, that's positive. [[Kedomir Jovanovic, from the site: No replica on replica.]] I can't see from your back, so I haven't seen Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try in a serious way to look back at what is happening today in the Serbian Parliament and what is happening to Serbia, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, in line with what has already been said here and why I have reported for the replica. Namely, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, regardless of what their plans are, what they wanted, what they told Serbian citizens that they were going to do in the election campaign, have essentially only one intention, which is to be in power, that is, at any cost, it doesn't matter what ideas, whether there are any, what someone here said, a system of values, but only to be in power at all costs, at all costs, at all costs, very important, and that is to be supported by those who destroy Serbia. My next question, and the previous few questions have not been answered, the next question is addressed to DS and DSS representatives - where is the end of humiliation? Where is the end of Serbia's destruction without you saying that those who destroy it are not our friends big or worse benefactors. What else is there to do, so you say, hey, Ollie Ren or, hey, Solana, or anyone else, or Nicholas Burns or whoever, stop that and don't tell us you're our big friends. If you can't do it yourself, find this specimen or send someone else to say it on your behalf, anyone can say it. Show that you have a serious relationship with the state of Serbia. Show that you want to change something in the interest of Serbian citizens. Today, Serbian citizens are wondering how it is possible for someone to change their decision, change their will and say what was agreed six or seven days ago, and what was agreed two or three days ago, when they finally made some kind of preliminary government of the Republic of Serbia. What was that all about? Do you think anyone was talking about cakes or burgers or something? It's not. It was about Serbia, about its future. We have seen Serbia's future in its development, in the fight against corruption and crime, we have seen Serbia's future inseparable from the future of Kosovo and Metohija, because Serbia has no future if there is no Kosovo and Metohija, there is no Serbia without any of its work. It's something some have to understand. That is why the worst possible or the most wrong policy, if the company is at all possible, is that we will not sacrifice our European future for Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know what your European future is like. I have visited almost all of Europe, and the right to tell you, I am not interested in how they live in Tallinn, Riga or Villanus, but I am very interested in how Serbs live in Kosovo Mitrovica, how our people live in Gracanica, in Strpec, in Gorazdevec. I'm much more interested in that than Tallinn, Riga or Willenus. It's something some here can't understand, they can't understand. What do they resent about Tomislav Nikolic? They say, "You didn't make a deal, so you overplayed." What's the sin, what's the mistake? Our mistake is to believe that there is hope for Serbia, to make the Assembly, so that the Assembly can talk about Kosovo and Metohija, while at the same time going to new elections, which will create a climate to form a government that would bring Serbia good. Then someone said, "Pull dots don't work." Sorry, it doesn't suit us, because it's more important that we have chairs than anything we can do for Serbia. In this election, I see Mr. Micunovic's theory comes across the growing support in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1006	Please, Mr. Wolfie, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1007	I ask you to warn those who earn, and those who are never able to go out for this pay phone and say anything meaningful, that they do not do so. I don't mind the rudeness of MP DS, it speaks of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1008	I ask the MPs not to receive from the scene. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1009	Thank you very much for your patience and kindness. So in that choice between the chair and Serbia, we are neither sad nor angry, nor angry, you have misread it. On the contrary, you couldn't see it with us, not even hatred, not a desire for revenge, not anything like that. The basic feeling that you can see with us, which absolutely dominates, and even today we are the funniest in this room, is pride because Serbia is more important to us than the chair. Serbia will beat the chairs, I guarantee it, in the first next election, because Serbian citizens cannot have another choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1010	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have violated article 100. The Rules of Procedure, which says in paragraph 2, MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. While the SRS MP, Mr Slavisa Topalovic, was behind the pay phone, you were trying to make warnings from your place informally, calling it "Slavisa". You have a duty to treat each MP with respect. I know it was not out of the desire to in any way offend Mr. Slaviša Topalović, but I would ask you, for you, because remember, those who have now come together, anything you will do besides the Rules of Procedure or with them that the possibility of being transferred to you will do very quickly. I would ask you to continue to act as Mrs Borka Vukic did, with as much charm, tact, dignity, led by an extremely difficult session, and that no one moment at all threatened the right of any MP, nor offended or demeaned him. After that, Mr Tomislav Nikolic took the lead in this way, so I would ask you to finish this session in the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1012	I have to remind you, I'm not going to talk about personal attitudes at all anymore, I'm an SUV, and I'm communicating with workers directly, so I'm a little embarrassed to move on to another termology so quickly in this high house. But the Nightingale won't mind me. Here you go, Slavisha. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Slavisha. He's giving up. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1013	Mr. Chairman, I don't know how long it will take you to get used to your new role. Here are not your hired workers, etc., these are the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and you will still have to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't doubt your good intentions for a moment, but it's no excuse if you get out of the bounds of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1014	Thank you very much, Mr. Todorovic. I'm going to do my best to make sure I have as much time as I can, I hope only today. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic came to the floor, and let Dr. Zarko Korac prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, please allow me to speak on the subject. As Mr Ivica Dacic announced on behalf of the parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group will not vote to resolve Tomislav Nikolic from the post of National Assembly president. Our views, which are on display in the House of National Assembly, when Tomislav Nikolic was elected president, remain the same. They haven't changed, nor will they change. I'll say it again. And then and now we said -- the responsibility of parties so-called. The democratic bloc exists for the agony that has already been happening in Serbia for three months. Then we said that we respected the right of the congregation's majority to elect a president of the National Assembly, but they didn't choose him for three months. At that time, putting the first plan of state and national interests, and within that Serbian interest to have a constitutional National Assembly, we supported the DSS and the SRS agreement to elect a MP from the most numerous parliamentary groups, not for the reasons we agree with this programme, but for the reason that Serbia needs to have a president of the National Assembly and to have a constitutional National Assembly. Then, too, for reasons of national and state interests and the need for Serbia to have a government, and inability to be so-called. The democratic bloc agreed, called on the DSS and the SRS to build a government. It's been a while since then, and a lot has come to the surface. It came to the surface of another irresponsibility so-called. The democratic bloc, the irresponsibility of Serbian citizens and the inability to solve Serbia's problems, but they do. They argued for three months about who would have Bija, who would keep Ponos, almost venge after him, and did not, what the citizens expected, talk about economic development, employment, poverty reduction, the reduction of dramatically sharpened social differences, and how the unrepentant situation of pensioners etc. According to that parallel they had in the election campaign, which was only valid during the campaign, because life cannot wait, it has proved to be not true for the citizens. It's for the political elite. When it comes to BIA and everything else, even how it can wait. Now, a few days after Serbia's missed chance, to send a message to the public and to the world that all MPs elected in the Assembly have legitimacy because citizens voted for them, that there is a possibility that Serbia also has a president of the National Assembly from any other party, that there is an opportunity to send a message to Europe and to the world that it can be agreed in Serbia, that there are different political options, but that Serbia is older than all of them. Instead, the entire Haranga began, one such campaign, which sent messages to the world and to Europe about a Serbia they put in a humiliating position. I'll just take a few examples. They divide Serbia into good and bad, beautiful and ugly, democratic and non-democratic, European and anti-European, civilization and anti-civilisation. God, we've sent all the messages to the world in the last few days. When it comes to Europe, they incorrectly state that it has European and anti-European, because it is not true, because we are for Europe, but in a dignified way, as partners. And this message we send to Europe about divided Serbia, which the EU will accept to receive such a Serbia. What's another irresponsibility? The democratic bloc, which in three days' time the DSS declared undemocratic and after Thursday again democratic? Last night, Vojislav Kostunica, prime minister, addressed the national state interest in forming a government. Who defended him for three months? Who was stopping him? I argue that even now what is happening in this assembly is only the deception of Serbia and letting Serbia know that it is more important to replace Tomislav Nikolic than to elect a government, because one serious majority formed in such a time-share, and there is no interference, would form the first government to stabilise political opportunities and immediately replace Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the assembly. This shows another indifference, another condition, another blackmail -- it is more important to replace Tomislav Nikolic than to form a government. And the timing is such, day and night, a debate, and let them know the gentlemen of the democratic bloc, they are responsible for this state of Serbia. The SPS will not vote to resolve Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1016	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. I ask Mr. Korać to take his word and to prepare Nemanja Sarovic from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1017	Although it is not easy to guess, occasionally, especially for someone who looks at this assembly and isn't in the process from the very beginning, the topic is to resolve the newly elected president of the Serbian Parliament, although there is indeed a lot of things that may have to do with politics, but they have nothing to do with the agenda. I have to say, it's interesting that the motion for a shift is uneducated, and the choice proposal has been very reasoned and we've heard very long speeches about why it's good for Serbia. I didn't want to bring a stenogram from that session, which was only five days ago, and to show that the party that actually made the proposal was the DSS-NS-NS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica coalition, which she explained. It has been said that it is normal for the president of the assembly to be of the largest party, it has been said that this brings stability to Serbia, it is said that Serbia has no institution besides the government, that neither the president of the assembly has been elected, and that much has been said, which seemed convincing to their MPs, probably voters, and voters and party members, that the decision was made. Four days after that, we get a proposal that this same newly elected president be replaced here. It's interesting that even the man who put that proposal out there isn't in the O.R., I suppose it would be some elemental order for him to sit here, to hear what the MPs think about that proposal, but it's a matter of him and his party. The election of National Assembly presidents in all normal countries, democratic countries, is one of the most responsible functions in the country and in most European countries, the three central figures representing the state are the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly, the basic legislative body. I'm telling you, you won't find many examples of choosing the president of the assembly and replacing him after four days. Being said that at one point he had one coalition, and at another point he had another coalition, I have to say it's a very bad excuse for what was done. It couldn't have been a technical decision, it had to be a political decision. For me as a man, and not only for me, but for many citizens of Serbia, the issue remains open -- what are the two political decisions that are so different in four days apart. What they agreed five, six, seven days ago and what they agreed the other day to demand the shift of Tomislav Nikolic. First they praise him, and then they unsettledly replace him. Since I didn't vote for the first time for Mr Nikolic's election, and it's perfectly natural because there are huge political differences, neither did he expect it, nor his party, but it's really interesting that the new government is leaving to do what it says it will do, democratisation the country into European integration, with a huge mortgage, for which it is itself responsible and no one else, i.e. This mortgage is called inconsistencies in political behaviour. This inconsistency will be interpreted by many as a complete political confusion. Who are her partners in political terms? In politics, it's said - anything is possible. Right, but everything has its own price, and that price is called credibility in this case. Regardless of what is missing in Serbia on the political scene, however, it cannot be considered that we have reached the point that political credibility no longer represents anything. In other words, what kind of political wanderings are these, to change your decision in four days, to elect the president of the assembly, you are defiing the office of Parliament's president in such a way. We are gradually building all these democratic institutions after a long period of one-party system and I think the price of this is terrible in the eyes of Serbian citizens. Whatever we think in this room, we 250 and the citizens who voted for us and the parties that we represent, the price of it will be paid by all of us in this room, someone more, someone less, because citizens will find us irresponsible people, people who are interested in citizens in the last place and who can make any deal and tear down any deal. Gentlemen, in politics it has its own price and you will pay that price with cynicism and apathism for Serbian citizens in the next election. In other words, the function of the speaker of the assembly is an important function. If at some point you've made a decision that this is what it's supposed to look like, in a political sense, the president of that assembly, then I'd really like to hear a political explanation here -- why it's no longer good. You cannot make an unsettled proposal on the removal of the president of the Assembly and then, for this speaker, I hope you noticed that, the party making the proposal, and the first proposal for Mr Nikolic's election and the motion to resolve Nikolic, did not come for this assembly speaker to make it clear to all - what has changed in Serbia or in its policy for the past five days. I must, as a citizen, and as an MP in this assembly, show that there are people who are beginning to think that our political scene is starting to look like some kind of market, where any agreement is possible to remain in power, come to power or achieve some particular interest. It would be good if only those who do so paid that price. I'm afraid that our country will pay for the whole and that at this point the credibility of people who deal with politics, without my personal responsibility and many other people who did not participate, will be at a very low level. We will all pay the price, but unfortunately the price will be paid by this country that has many problems, Serbia itself. So, once again, if the motion for a resolution is, gentlemen, dissipate, come to this assembly speaker and explain to us what the first deal was, what the second deal is, and you bear the price of the consequences of what you and then and now have decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1018	Thank you, Mr. Korac. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, let Mrs. Natasa Micic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is for the first time since the Friday revolution that the Serbian Parliament is on the agenda for a debate on the confidence of the president of the assembly. No predecessor of Mr Tomislav Nikolic dared to put the debate on his trust on the agenda, as we have not had a chance to discuss the government's trust once since 2000. Tomislav Nikolic, of course, showed this time how different he is, how much better he is than all those who were in that place before him and the moment he received such a proposal, he put him on the agenda, although, apart from his morals and feelings for managing this congregation, nothing made him aware of it. With such behaviour, he taught everyone a lesson, a very valuable lesson in democracy, and showed that almost in Serbia there will be no man who could lead the National Assembly in a more tolerant, more democratic and principled way. In previous days, democracy, at least in parliament, was at the highest possible level. There was no confiscation of words, there was no punishment for MPs, forced out of this assembly hall, sessions began in time after a long time, and the assembly hall was full at any moment and I don't think there was any less than 126 MPs, although, according to the rules you brought, there was no more quorum for work. Even at four o'clock in the morning, there was a lot of room. You have kidnapped and tried in various ways to provoke Mr Tomislav Nikolic to make any move that you could use in the hunt against him. It should be recalled that just five or six days ago you convinced Serbia that the best candidate for the seat of the President of the Republic Assembly, Mrs Milosevic, today you convince us that it is someone else, by the game of the case Mr Dulic, and in this way I must say that you are first humiliating these two MPs, and then this high house, all MPs, citizens of Serbia and, most of all, I believe that most of my confidence, MPs from the DSS. I really don't want to stick around much longer, and I'm not the one who has to give DSS members any criticism right now, because I'm sure there won't be any worse punishments for them than they're gonna have to go out on the street, so they can explain to the store, to the market, to their friends, to their relatives, to the acquaintances, and to the unknown people, to whom they've run their interests when they've done what they did the previous few days. We Serbian radicals have proven our commitment to democratic principles, but during these few days, in the clearest possible way, you have shown how much so-called. Democrats have impugned these same democratic principles. You have once again proven that you are governed by hatred and that there is nothing you are not prepared to prevent radicals from coming to Serbia. Despite everything, on Tuesday, in the early morning hours, Serbia won and, Tom, this time I say no to Tomislav Nikolic, because most citizens, millions who waited until four o'clock in the morning for his choice, from the mercy they call Tom, he was elected for the first time, after a long time, these millions of citizens felt great relief, free to say they felt the breath of freedom in Serbia. Serbs have always appreciated freedom above all else, and now Serbia knows that this freedom and the ultimate victory of the SRS is very close, because you will never be able to fool most of Serbia into being among you from so-called. The democratic bloc has any difference. It is clear now that, no matter what, they are on the same mission and Chad, and Baby, and Tadic, and Korać and everyone else. In the next election, Serbia will define itself either for you or for hate, or for Serbian radicals and final progress. He showed Tomislav Nikolic's choice and how miserable the situation is in the media in Serbia, he showed Mr Tomislav Nikolic's choice of freedom is that you are not there, because what else did he call this heifer that went on the moment it was clear that he would be elected? You have feared and deceived Serbian citizens of everything and everything, from the alleged stock market crash to the euro leap, and even to the enormous powers that Tomislav Nikolic would have, if, God forbid, something would have happened to Boris Tadic. So you said, "He would appoint ambassadors." And what awaits Boris Tadic, why he does not use these huge powers and why he allowed Serbia to have no ambassadors, for example, in the Russian Federation, which is currently the strongest support for Serbia's policies and opportunities for Kosovo and Metohija to remain within our borders. On TV B92, it's understandable for me, because everyone in Serbia knows they're fulfilling their financial orders. I wasn't surprised when I looked further at TV Studio B, but I have to say that the biggest shame is that part of the news of 20 minutes dedicated to Tomislav Nikolic lasted on RTS in the second journal, which was changing so-called. analysts and tried to explain inexplicably that everything in Serbia would actually stop. The biggest shock at the end of the news was when I heard that the weather would be sunny despite everything in Serbia the next day, because whoever watched those first 20 minutes probably thought that the sun would never rise again in Serbia. The motion to replace the President of the Assembly is uneducated, and of course he is uneducated, because not only in the proposal but also in the debate we did not hear not only seriously, but we did not hear any argument about his shift. But what you are showing by this debate, what you are showing too much desire to replace Tomislav Nikolic, is how much you care about the government of the Republic of Serbia and how much you care about citizens. I am sure that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, when you no longer have time to finish the discussions that await us, you will accuse the SRS of obstruction, and we are only using our business rights to defend not Tomislav Nikolic and not his choice, but to defend Serbia, to defend democratic principles. I have to say one more thing in the end, because there's been a lot of talk about it, and I haven't had a chance to answer TV B92. There has been a lot of talk about how some here are pushing for Serbia to become Russian Governor. None of the members of the SRS have said that, and now I'm going to explain my position. If someone asked me if it would be better to be an American and European colony, which Serbia is indisputable today, because the British ambassador tells you -- we have three or four more days to form a government without mentioning the statements of others we could hear during this period, then it is clear that Serbia is nothing but a colony. Serbia's Russian colony will never be for two reasons. First of all, the fact that the Russian people and the Russian state never had such pretentiousness, they never bombed us, they never took parts of our territory. The second reason that a free people, a people who, as I said, always appreciated freedom above all else, will certainly never allow them to live in any other country except free.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1020	I ask Mrs Natasha Micic to take her word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1021	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as soon as possible, we of the LDP Group have never had anything in common with the SRS, nor have we. We were simply not part of the parliamentary majority chosen by Tomislav Nikolic, but we were also not involved in giving the SRS legitimacy, as did the parliamentary majority that would form the government, by writing with radicals the Constitution or sharing their views on Kosovo or, let's say, on the state community. So, we will vote for Tomislav Nikolic's resolution, and not so much for why we expected to show better knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, because he is an MP with the longest internship, and not so much for the reason that he overstepped his powers by holding a session by acting more like a judge, breaking down with the MPs and determining the truth, or by acting more as foreign minister, more Russia than Serbia. All that is undeniable, here is another question on the table.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1022	I ask the MPs to behave and to finish the first part of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1023	The question is, who let the evil spirit out of the bottle? Who demonstrated the most inconsistencies in these five days? Who has shown that he is ready, because of the authorities, that in the most cruel way possible he is destroying institutions all the way to the very end, even in a way that his proposing representative here today is not present? Ladies and gentlemen, that's the point of our debate. Who? Of course, Vojislav Kostunica. I'm happy to belong to a parliamentary group that doesn't give up on its policy. We will defend this policy and tear down all the obstacles that stand in our way, and the first obstacle is the project of a concentration government, whose architect is Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1024	Mr. Mihajlovic will be the last speaker of this first session. At 1400 hours, we'll take a break. After the break, the first speaker will be Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, our goal, the SPS goal is not to trip Serbia and never do that. However, we are facing very important issues in a minute to 12, and we have just established, not until the end, this assembly, we return to the beginning. The government is yet to be elected within the constitutional deadline. Had there been little responsibility and some harmony between what was said in the election campaign, under thunderous slogans such as - Serbia cannot wait, Serbia is in a hurry, or Serbia is already better today, and that it was frankly said we would have long since established the National Assembly and elected Government. It is clear that such a campaign, with such slogans and with such alleged truth, with which the parties went, was in deep part with what is Serbia's interest and what the interests of citizens are. I think you're from the so-called so-called. You are obstructing the work of this National Assembly and the government's election, because if you were a little practical, then you would have put up with Tom Nikolic as National Assembly President, you would have chosen the government, and then you can change him if you have a reason. This is how you question, bother the public and citizens of Serbia and question everything that is of interest to citizens and the interest of Serbia at this very difficult moment. Obviously, party interests, personal interests and interests of those centres of power from the west are more important than Serbia's interests and more important than citizens' interests. One question is also raised for the SRS, when it made agreements with the DSS on the majority in the National Assembly, for its constitution, why they did not condition the majority for the government, which saves the country's national interests and its citizens. Why didn't you take responsibility at that point and say you'd move on to action? We have here today behind this pay phone, in this assembly, indeed one immense political exclusion of one or the other. Any exclusion of any kind and from any side to come she herself is suspicious. It doesn't reflect the spirit of democracy that you want to present yourself to. Such exclusion is unique to those who, call it the Democrats. Let the public judge, since the Assembly is being transferred, who is such a Democrats and what kind of democratic and any capacity it has today on Serbia's political scene. This is what we are actually coming to the evil fate of a deep Serbian division that has existed since ancient Serbia. This just deepens, and there's no end to it. Such division certainly seems to be in the interest of Western centres of power, it is routed from there, nurtured and directed, remotely managed by a broken-down Serbia, which cannot find its way, to defend its national and state interest and priority. It is clear that those who deal in this way do this to us out of their own interests, not out of interest and love for Serbia. Here we can also talk about why we have little in ourselves and our minds and morals, and of what is certainly undeniable love, but certainly different in the way everyone understands it, according to their country, according to what our people are, do not find at least a minimum of what is common in the interests of the defence of our country's national interests when it is most necessary. Do you think everyone for themselves is the smartest and most powerful to defend the interests of the country? I think the only thing we can get out of some community minimum is what's good for Serbia. I wouldn't talk about what's often said here, about some imaginary value systems, because if we got into it, then we'd really get naked and that kind of concept that comes up here. So we will not vote for Tomislav Nikolic's shift for principled reasons, and not only for those reasons, but because we respect one agreement and we have one consistent policy. But we are ready to always vote on those issues and those solutions that are in Serbia's interest, because we are a state-of-the-art party, regardless of whose side it comes from. Such an attitude and behavior speak of us, and what you do certainly speaks of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1026	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The Republic has Mr Dragan Todorovic and then unrepeated the break by 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1027	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr. Mihajlovic, I understand why you asked such a question at the beginning, that is, at the appointment of the Assembly, where Tomislav Nikolic was to be elected president. I also understand the issues of many Serbian citizens why, in addition to the agreement to form the Assembly, no agreement on forming a government followed. Is there a better reason for both you and Serbia than the DSS did? With such an unserious and immoral party, we never thought to enter into arrangements to form a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1028	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Pause until 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15,05]] We're continuing our work. In accordance with Article 85, paragraphs 5 and 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 1800 hours, until the end of that agenda period that is in progress at that time. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1030	Ladies and gentlemen, in a few sentences, I would like to remind you, and above all the citizens of Serbia, who I suppose today as well as these days follow what "democracy" looks like in part in the Serbian Parliament, one fact, and this is the SRS' relationship, since the end of these last parliamentary elections of January 21st, o.g. I remind you, we asked Boris Tadic to behave in accordance with the constitution and in line with the principles of parliamentary democracy, that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS, the party that won the highest number of mandates in the elections, as well as several last elections, entrust the mandate to form the government of the Republic of Serbia. Boris Tadic, like many times before, has deafened his constitutional obligations and legal obligations, and of course he did not. That's not an accident. He knows well why he didn't do it, because if he had offered the mandate to Mr Tomislav Nikolic today, we would probably already be in this House in another assembly, or we would have already been called and completed elections, which were necessary and which were the only solution to such a situation as Serbia today. Mr Tomislav Nikolic would inform Boris Tadic within seven days whether or not there are 126 MPs who would vote for his government. If he said he didn't have it, then Boris Tadic would have to offer his party a mandate, but then there would be no possibility of representatives of the Democratic Party, and after them and representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, insulting the intelligence of Serbian citizens, insulting their own and all other voters in Serbia. We would have to, in the same time frame as Tomislav Nikolic would have to come forward or say "yes, I can form a government" or "I can't form a government". When we saw that there was nothing from the government, that Boris Tadic had no intention of resigning, and that was the only moral thing above all, and today he's still not too late, since we have the president of the National Assembly, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to make a nice resignation, to move Tomislav Nikolic over, where he is, and to go to elections at all levels. When we saw that there was nothing of it, then as a serious and governmental party we did what was only possible, we publicly invited all party representatives and publicly, on all occasions, asked and insisted that the National Assembly be established. The state of Serbia, unfortunately, is in a very difficult situation, the country's situation is dramatic. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija and resolving this problem is something we, the Serbian radicals, look forward to. We thought it was only possible that if we didn't already have a government and there was no will for the government to be made, that we had the National Assembly in place, that at least we could do in this highest legislative body what our obligation is. Our obligation, I remind you, in accordance with the Constitution, according to the Constitutional Law, is also to pass urgent laws, our deadlines have already passed. I mean the law on the President of the Republic, on the Army, on the defence, on the National Assembly, on local elections, on local self-government -- all of these are the obligations of the National Assembly so that we can go further through this democratic path, and these are elections, because we don't have all these laws that I have said, or we don't have at all, or those we have that don't comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It was a motive for the SRS to accept an agreement to elect Mr Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament's president. Of course, from the very beginning we have spoken and claimed that we will not enter the government, that we will not support anyone's government, that we will not make government ourselves to support us, that we insist on the elections, which we are now claiming, but that this should not be an obstacle for the National Assembly to function and to work in accordance with the Law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course we weren't expecting what happened these days. It is just amazing, the MPs also said not only of the SRS but also of some other parliamentary groups, that it is amazing and unseen that one parliamentary group, one party, one party president, can, without any basis, by any means challenge, change his mind within a few days. Like other colleagues, I have to remind myself of some details from the night between Monday and Tuesday, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic was elected president. Here someone said that it is a pity that in the hall is not Milos Aligrudic, who should communicate with the MPs, because he is the proponent of this act, I would say that it is not a pity, but that it is a disgrace and cowardice and Milos Aligrudic and DSS and, of course, Vojislav Kostunica, who was homeless and remained. It is common and normal for a man to quote some mental people, but sometimes we are in a situation where we have to quote both Aligrudic and Petrovic, what to do. I will remind you of only one part, the truth of the very confusing display of Milos Aligrudic from that night, when he said, "It is necessary that we vote for one single proposal, all of us, because of the democratic procedure in the Assembly. With regard to the election of the President of the Assembly, if it is someone who can present us, then the largest number of MPs in the Assembly, if it is and by the SRS will vote. If it were you, Mr Petrovic, or if the Democratic Party had 81 mandates, and they 64, without a moment of reflection, we would vote for your candidate and any candidate in this assembly.' On that Monday and today, the SRS in Parliament has 81 MPs, DS 64 MPs, but apparently something has been tampered with in Milos Aligrudic's head, i.e. Vojislav Kostunica, who has still accepted to listen to Solana, as he has done many times before, but now something like he thought he could get away with, that it might not be so public, that something remains as well remembered among Serbian citizens that he is a Democrats, that he is a patriot. By what he did, concerning the president of the National Assembly, he denied and persuaded the few who believed that he was such a man, that he was not. I now remind first of all the public of the Republic of Serbia that the president of Serbian radicals, Prof. In 2000, Vojislav Seselj warned Serbian citizens in the campaign and said Vojislav Kostunica was Serbia's biggest error. To whom it was not clear at the time, and to whom it was not clear to this day, I am quite certain that everyone has resolved the dilemma today. I'll remind you of just one more piece of Milos Aligrudic's word on that night, Monday on Tuesday, this must be one of ten times his sentences repeated. He said, "There's something short I'd like to say about the parliamentary debate at the beginning. I'll tell you what: there's a fax in front of me that presents Tanjug's news a few hours ago, whose title is -- it's crucial that Tadic controls the security service. EU foreign policy and security chief Javier Solana said today at the European Parliament in Brussels that he spoke with Serbian President Boris Tadic several hours ago and that he personally believes that for successful co-operation with The Hague tribunal, whatever the motive is, it is crucial that Tadic controls Serbia's Security Service. ''I won't comment on the fact that Javier Solana could not have done this at all, but since he was bombing and killing Serbian children and the Serbian people he called the action "merciful angel", then there's nothing to say about him. Nothing of course about Boris Tadic, because he never hid that Solana was his political mentor. Kostunica tried to hide it, but here's Milos Aligrudic exposed it to Serbia's public. I am only surprised that there are 137 MPs in parliament today who do not know the basic postulates of parliamentary democracy and who went to a school where only 64 were taught to count. Gentlemen, 81 is more than 64.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1031	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dusan Bajatovic, and may he prepare for the discussion of Ms Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1032	Dear MPs, I'm sorry I didn't make it before my break to pick up. I think we are on a serious path to lead us astray here in parliament, but I fear, above all, the citizens of Serbia. Why do I say that? What's the problem? Is Tomislav Nikolic elected legally or illegally? Did radicals steal 81 seats in the election? No, they're not. What's this about? It is here that it must be replaced by Tomislav Nikolic, I do not want to be his lawyer, because the newly established parliamentary majority, which should be made by DSS, DS, NS and G17 plus simply do not trust each other. That is why Tomislav Nikolic must be replaced first. In this sense, it is undeniable that the newly formed majority acquired the right and opportunity to form a congregation majority, and thus the right to form a government. But you have no right to harass or harass Serbian citizens. So, the question arises -- why did you have a problem with going first to the choice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which as the newly formed parliamentary majority agreed under the chairmanship of Tomislav Nikolic? It seems that there was a problem in the necessity of some of those parties of the new parliamentary majority, to show your political cleanliness. At the same time, I'm afraid that's not at the same time showing responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. I just want to remind you of the next thing. You do not swear, gentlemen, in this House or Tomislav Nikolic or the SRS. I have an opinion on them, and I deeply hope that those who are elected here as government will swear to Serbia and swear true democracy. And that's why you shouldn't have bothered to get to the government on time, before Tuesday night, instead of eventually having to trade with a part of the MPs here so the whole job could be done by Tuesday at midnight. If I were you, I wouldn't mind the chairman of the SRS, I wouldn't care what anyone thinks about the way I play and whether I play the game well, but I'd be interested in the result. The result must be the formation of a government of the Republic of Serbia, which will be able to deal with resolving Kosovo's Metohic problems, so that Kosovo remains as they swore, although they have not yet been elected within the Republic of Serbia. To choose a government that will reduce corruption. To choose a government that, according to its members, will explain how it was possible for a bankruptcy mafia to emerge in the face of the state and who is responsible for it; which will be able to explain why, after eight years of democratic power, we do not have real friends in the world, but they continue to carry out their interests here; who will be able to explain that the notion of democracy is not that security control is being conducted by the DS, that a programme against poverty, as they say, needs to be replaced urgently by a programme to be a job for all and similar things in Serbia. So it is undeniable that it is completely legitimate in this parliament, and according to the election results of about two million and four hundred or two million and five hundred thousand votes, those who call themselves a democratic bloc at this point, in principle or unprincipled, in my opinion unprincipledly, can form a new government. For everything that has been wrongly done in the past three and a half months and a half Serbia and a half per citizen of Serbia, you cannot accuse neither the SPS nor the LDP, nor Nenada Canka, nor the SRS. You are directly responsible for this, which until the last moment, including the deal with radicals, played a role in a poker game, which could cost Serbia a lot. I want to call you all again, I apologize, I really do speak out loud sometimes, I may not be very smart, but I'm emotional, if you don't mind, I'm joking, Mr. Micunovic, believe me, I'm smart enough, don't worry. Yes, Mr. Nikolic, you're right, in this poker game, because believe me, I'm focused enough, the stakes have gone to the end. I want to thank you, Mr Nikolic, for allowing the democratic bloc past the Rules of Procedure to form its congregation majority, and I hope that they will truly be grateful to you. If they wanted unity around Kosovo, they would leave you as president, if everyone in this parliament shared responsibility for Serbia's future. But the democratic block doesn't want that. They want to be political cleaners, with a monopoly on Serbia's future. I'm afraid they take some analysts, who explain to the same democratic bloc that radicals have such a good result because they are such, incompetent and prone to maintaining power at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1033	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1034	Mr. Bajatovic, the rest of your pen can be found by someone from the DS, you better take it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have just, in accordance with Article 85, informed the National Assembly that you will extend today's work to the conclusion of the debate on the agenda item that will be on the agenda at 1800 hours. I would like to remind you of the position of Article 4, and, for the sake of the MPs, for the sake of the public, and for your sake, I will quote this position. So, article 85 speaks of the work of the National Assembly, in which it works, from how many to how many hours the National Assembly is working. Of course, here, thanks to the newly formed congregational majority, it's done at night, it's done on Sundays and Saturdays. I would remind you, Mr. Mrkonjic, and I will ask you, in the end, that you will be obliged to give us the right explanation, because Article 4, article 85, reads: 'Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, that is, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18,00 hours, if there are reasonable reasons for that, which the president announces to the MPs. ''You, Mr. Mrkonjic, have only informed us that we will probably work for more than 18.00 hours, but which are justified reasons, are there any, you have not informed us of these reasons, and you have had the obligation to tell us nicely what this is leading you to extend today's work in this assembly, what a terrible thing has happened in the state of Serbia, what it is that the National Assembly must do today, whether MPs and the National Assembly should do 24 hours a day just because Tadic and Kostunica didn't agree on what they agreed on in good time at the last minute. Does the National Assembly have to work 24 hours a day because Mladjan Dinkic had a nervous breakdown when he realized that Bozidar Djelic had more money than he did, that he stole more for a million more than he did. If that's the reason, Mr. Mrkonjic, that the National Assembly is working extremely, we Serbian radicals think that's not the reason. I suppose you have a very serious reason, that this is not what I assumed, but in any case we insist that you act in accordance with Article 85(4) and inform the National Assembly, and inform the citizens of Serbia, which are the exceptional reasons why we needed to work longer today.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1035	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs from the non-democratic part of parliament, Mr Democrats, the copy is still missing, and I thought I'd welcome him in particular, reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 85(4). Mr. Chairman, an extraordinary president of the National Assembly may decide that a session of the National Assembly is held for other days, that is, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18,00 hours, if there are reasonable reasons. The specimen's arrived, though he won't understand, but it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was an extraordinary second day of Saturday, it was an extraordinary Saturday night, so we worked all night, so it's an extraordinary week, so it can't be extraordinary anymore, you have to take care of it. However, do not worry about the power and potential of the SRS MPs, you must take care of your MPs. You see your MP benches are half empty. It continues, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the old practice to come in the morning, open the session, register, stop by the register, take the diary for that day, and then run away. What sits here in the parliamentary benches of the democratic bloc, although there are a lot of kletocrats there, but it doesn't matter, it's new and hasn't learned that old democratic practice to come in the morning to register, to take the diaries and leave. Only the SRS MPs in the previous meeting remained until the end of their working hours and worked on both legislative projects and amendments. Mr. Chairman, I understand the democratic need to crush this government as soon as possible, because they know that their deadline is limited, they will not steal as much time as they will to hide traces of previous thieving, crime and theft. I'm asking you to follow some natural laws. I'm afraid, since there are people here who are at age, they can't take it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that this is not only a pressure on parliament, but pressure on the Serbian public, a pressure that will prove its haughtiness, its strength, its insolence and its support from their teachers, their bosses and their Western employers. Mr. Chairman, I expect you to withdraw your proposal and work today until 6:00, and tomorrow is the day. When those three-and-a-half months didn't come to an agreement, so I can't agree on these three-and-a-half hours that we're gonna use to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1037	Thank you. The word is Dr. Momchilov. Here you go, Doctor, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I also advertise Article 85. Rules of Procedure. And not to repeat my predecessor and not waste my time, I think you're obliged to at least give us an explanation that is very important reasons that led you to extend the work of this assembly session until the debate is over in principle. You see, we're working again under some extraordinary and strange conditions. We had a night session. You will rarely find a normal parliament to work at night. We had, you know, free to say, as one of my neighbors told me -- a vampire ball on the program to watch on state television last night. Also, I received one message from a man who doesn't belong to any party, where he just wrote to me - this is the bottom. Now let me go back to what I'm trying to say and connect it to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, try to figure out the motives for what it's done like this and how it's done. Of course, most of the so-called. The Democrats don't care about any principles at all. These are people who, if you look at the history and origin of that party, have always seen in some way manipulation and some work on the mufti to achieve something. Here comes the patriarch of democracy here, told me people when the DS was founded, the authentic story is completely how they got to the new president. They say, suddenly Mr. Micunovic appeared, so I said, "Here, I met him at the market of Mr., the late Djindjic, and then when they chose the party's president, suddenly the passerby, Mr. Djindjic, suggested that Mr. Micunovic be president, and all of a sudden, if you watch, mufti, mufti, maklaja, gliding." Let's get back to this. What's this for? We worked tonight, we slept for three hours, we need to exhaust ourselves maximum. You know the limits of the human organism, when the brain can work rationally, and that's the eight-hour working day, when a man can normally reason and draw conclusions. This is about the principle of exhaustion, fatigue, so that most of all it's about. I could understand that we are in a state of war and that we are really in an awkward situation that we have to act and work like this. However, my predecessors said, for three months someone dosed and deliberately stalled this, to make us make unsuspecting, stupid, and useless decisions in three days. Please explain to us the reasons, so let's see if they're real or if you can withdraw an unscrupulous proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1039	There's a word Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1040	Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you're a pain in the ass as vice president of the National Assembly and you've been given both the obligation and the right to chair. I would just draw your attention to a whole set of provisions of this Rules of Procedure that have been broken, even when you thought about extending the duration of this session or today's working day. I fully understand that you are not free from the fear of DS and that, in accordance with their established practice of political, mental, so we have heard these theoretical manipulations, you would not make some excuse that someone else is guilty that three and a half months they could not sit down and talk, that you were encouraged, intimidated, and that in your own sense you said that sentence - to continue the work after 18 hours. You forgot one thing about DS relaxing during the National Assembly session. Let me explain. When the multi-party system started in Serbia, there was a group in this room, they say, Democrats, etc., and the president of their parliamentary group at 10:30 comes out for this pay phone, encourages the topic, twice goes out on the line, and then burns it home, that lunch, sleep, rest, watch a little TV broadcast of the National Assembly session, and then comes up about 15 to 5 and says, "Please, you torture us here, we're bored all day because of you socialists," etc. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, it took your party comrades from the SPS three years to understand this kind of manipulation of that Democrats, the father of democracy. I went out, besides warning you to break the Rules of Procedure, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, if you want it to be a little more humane, but I came out and encouraged you not to be afraid of them. There's no need to be afraid of them. Serbia has made it clear in the elections that it does not want a relapse of the past. These are all past people in the political sense of words. Their opinions and political views are not acceptable to civilization. Get rid of that fear. Here, the SRS frees you from that fear. So it doesn't take a law to free you from fear. Take that Rules of Procedure, work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and don't worry, don't mind, see for yourself, in four or five days, that "salto mortal" that happens on a democratic bloc. When we get to that point on the agenda where we're going to talk about other things, then we're going to go with goals, purpose, method, technology, intelligence, etc. There's a lot of Alex Zunic here. Get rid of fear, work freely, the Assembly has its regular working hours and be calm, in this effort you are supported by the SRS. So change your mind on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1041	Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to advertise a violation of article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for the working hours of the Assembly to be up to 18 hours. The chairman of the National Assembly may, in exceptional circumstances, extend this working time. For this need, however, he must explain why he is extending his working hours, which Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic did not do this time. It's pretty clear what it's all about this time. Most of them who are newly formed are in a hurry to take their new luxury cabinets, to enter the luxury limos, to begin the division of the prey. What my colleague, Mr. Markovic, said was not to the end true, not only were they stealing, but the great new robberies of the Republic of Serbia are being prepared, with this government coming to Serbia. It's a big problem for citizens, and that's why the newly formed majority rush to form a new government, hurrying to work, if necessary all night long, just to get their hands on the situation as soon as possible and to continue to eat up this people living in Serbia today. Mr. Chairman, please consider what the MPs of the SRS are saying today, to withdraw this proposal. Look what's left in that hurry. It is likely that some office for co-operation with the future independent government of Kosovo will be formed within a few days, as Thaci, Ceku and everyone else support this newly formed democratic government. Some new limos, new cars, new cabinets, leather tables, chairs and chairs remain to be prepared, and you can see that they are in a hurry because some representatives of the democratic bloc cannot agree on the division of functions. What's partially written in the paper is certainly true. But there is also new information that you will learn at this and the next sessions of the National Assembly, and they are related to the fact that they cannot agree on who will take over which ministry, who will lead the main word, who will be the marginal figure and who will manage the Serbian finances. You saw what it looked like in the period since 2000, when millions of people lost their jobs, when Serbia's banking system was destroyed, when the stone on the stone was not left, when corruption and crime became synonyms for power in Serbia. It's going on until today. Such a haste shows me, and to all of you, that only a new Serbian robbery is being prepared, that new corruption, new crime is being prepared and that there is no end to it. I just wish you hadn't made such a move, because what's done is bad for Serbia, it's bad for the interests of the people of Serbia, but as far as citizens are concerned, I would also like to give them a message of encouragement, to count on their SRS to always be on the path of truth, on the path of preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, and on its way to stopping all thieves and criminals in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1043	Mr. Skribic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1044	I'm also advertising Article 85, and I could be a member of 100, and you might consider withdrawing this proposal that you just made. Also to take this opportunity to address those present, Serbian citizens and Parliament Speaker Mr Tomislav Nikolic, still valid. A man these days, after all these events on the political scene of Serbia, wishes to say and bring it out to the public, especially if this opportunity is provided in this high house and for this pay phone, and I am happy that I can and have the opportunity, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to address you and, above all, to the citizens of Serbia. It is incomprehensible that making such important decisions for the state of Serbia is left to some organisations abroad, NGOs and such parties that are today conducting such an inconsistencies policy, a foreign-funded policy, whose intention is obvious, to destroy the state of Serbia and its people. That is why Serbia must today take more than ever to take care of what has happened to the Serbian people in the last seven years. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia must first of all define its national interests, but with this majority being created, I am sure that it will not be for long and will not happen, regardless of what Kostunica's moves explain with similar motives. I'll try to remind you that there's nothing by chance in top politics, and if it happens by chance, and it's a big plan. This means that some destabilization of this country has carefully planned and invested a large sum of money in order to bring the country and its citizens into an unexplainable situation, where Serbia and Serbia are currently citizens. They forgot these so-called. Democrats that it is the state to or the country's collection of duties, both in war and in peace. You have forgotten all of this, and someone these amazing days, commenting on the five-octobaric coup, ironically, but very truthfully, noticed that on those days, those five-octobaric days, we received democracy, but the events of past years have shown that there has been no place for the people of Serbia in that democracy. And the people of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, are no longer politically illiterate and will not allow anyone to further humiliate him, because he is aware that Serbia has experienced general degradation at all levels and in all states and societies over the past seven years. At these moments, I remembered the timely statement made by American President George Bush, senior, Polish politicians, remember that stuffed revolution, when he said, our goal is not to bring you all to America, but to think of Poland, to make America. That's what George Bush said. Today we see what is happening, Poland has not become America, nor have the Poles gone to America, which is why its soldiers are successfully warring against global terrorism in Iraq. That quest today is led by George Bush Jr. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past seven years, domestic reformers, as Mr Markovic said, or Democrats, as our people like to say, have done everything possible to make America in the Balkans from Serbia. Look at the wonders, they did it, except, respected Serbian citizens, made Serbia Latin America, a society corrupt and absolutely socially divided. Finally, respected Serbian citizens, they have now received everything they want without having to take Serbia into their wing. And I will remind you of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's statement given in the previous assembly of parliament -- gentlemen, first, welcome us into the EU, and then in one day we will adopt all the laws that you are ordering us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1045	Thank you, Mr. Skrbic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I understand that you haven't been an MP for a long time, and I can understand that you may not be able to do your best in the work that you are currently doing, but among other things, there are provisions of the Rules of Procedure which say that the chairman of the leadership is being assisted by the Secretary of the National Assembly. I think it would be good for him to help you understand and find the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that are relevant to this part of the session and that would bring this debate back to some normal course, in which we all want it to be returned. When you violated Article 85, it caused your further stumbling, I would say, and you are now violating the Rules of Procedure from member to member. You have violated Article 100, which states in its 3rd position that, after some MP is talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the obligation of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman of the National Assembly, to make an explanation, and the next member says that if, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in the statement that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue by voting. Although several SRS MPs pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you missed your obligation to provide an explanation and thus made it impossible in the end line to ask the SRS MPs to also declare whether the Rules of Procedure was injured or not. You have thus injured Article 27, which speaks of the duties of the president, or in your case the chairman of the National Assembly, and this, among other things, in paragraph 1 of point 3 and to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I can understand that it is very important to you, or to this ruling majority, that it is not so clear to you that the debate ends as soon as possible, but we have warned you at the beginning that you will bear responsibility for the fact that the enormous hatred you have towards each SRS representative does not allow you to wait until the government is established, so that after that, you will eventually try to resolve Tomislav Nikolic, but you sacrifice the formation of the government to that end. We have warned you in advance that such a debate can take place, because Tomislav Nikolic has shown for a very short time that he respects absolutely all the principles of parliamentary democracy and none of your MPs have succeeded in making a single argument in favour of his shift. I'd like to say something personal to you, Mr. Grouchy. I hope you're aware you won't be in the chair for long. You had an excellent example of how the National Assembly was led, and by Mrs Borka Vukic, who did so as the oldest MP in this assembly, and an even better example, by Tomislav Nikolic, who, within a very short time, managed to show what democracy was. Don't let the pressures make you do something that you'll regret after years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1047	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1048	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 85(4) Mr. Chairman, explain why you extended Parliament's work today, is that some objective reason? Do you see how heartlessly you are in violation of this Rules of Procedure? What is it that made you extend the work of parliament today? Let's say the democratic bloc has a reason. Their cause is pressure from their friends and our enemies and enemies from Serbia and the Serb people. I get the impression that someone came here with an injection blackmailed DSS and DSS, something that must be something very terrible and big, something that could probably cost them a lot and hurt. Is it by any chance some material being blackmailed by the officials of the so-called. The democratic bloc, that it might not be some kind of malfeasance that could go public, so they had to agree faster and better. Three months are waiting, three months are being debated over security structures, who's going to hold security structures, and then suddenly there's no problem. Mr Aligrudic respected here how Javier Solana could have done it, to say it belonged to Boris Tadic. All of a sudden, Boris Tadic controls everything, I apologize, Boris Tadic, "the caplar of Solana", controls all the security structures in Serbia, according to your agreement. Some of them have their own personal interests, Mr. Chairman. Here, specifically, Mr. Petrovic. I have a question for him. He's not here right now. I'm very sorry about that. Mr. Petrovic has some personal interest in forming a government. I understand that there is pressure from the enemies of Serbia and from Corporal Javier Solana to form a government as soon as possible. That they want to take away Kosovo, which you from the democratic bloc will assume to agree with me, and which is an absolutely clear state and a complete situation in Serbia. And you, in addition to all that, approve of Serbia's collapse and help with the air. What is Mr Petrovic's personal interest? And the question is, is it possible that you from DS... Mr. Chairman, you're interrupting me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1049	Excuse me, Mr. Topalovich, time, time is a very important factor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1050	Our time is just coming. Question for the DSS, the phantom television zone in Nis, do you know who owns that television? Do you know there's a regional frequency assigned to that territory and that the main competitor, among other TVs, is a phantom TV "Zona"? Is it perhaps Mrs. Corbic's ownership of the DS and who else? Is it true that the co-owner, Mr. Petrovic, is there a question for you, is it true that you are co-owner of the phantom TV Zone? The regional frequency was to be allocated by May 18th, time passed, frequency not allocated, government formation is awaiting, and then to divide these regional frequencies. As far as I can see, there is nothing good and nothing fair for Serbia that speeds up this work of parliament, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, not to speed up the work of parliament, for no good reason for the state of Serbia and for its citizens. I know that you were working at that time of construction, just when that same Javier Solana ordered the bombing and destroyed our Serbia, and now you're speeding up this work of parliament, you want to finish, like then, before the deadline. Show me that you are thinking of Serbia, that you do not have any personal interest and you do not have to speed up the work of parliament, and withdraw this proposal to extend work from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1051	Thank you, Mr. Topalovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dacic, then Mr. Arsic, in turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1052	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in accordance with Article 30. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the event of the end of the term of office of the President of the National Assembly before the end of his election, the National Assembly will attend the same meeting, and no later than at the next session, the election procedure of the National Assembly president, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. If the election by the president of the National Assembly is held by a secret vote, the majority vice president, who is assisted by the other vice-presidents and the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, shall vote. Since we have opened the debate, in which it seems someone's SPS is to blame for helping selecting the government by extending this work, I suggest that the responsibility for forming a government be taken over by the government's parties. I call and order Milutin Mrkonjic, as party president, he is urgently prevented and will no longer lead this session to a secret vote. This is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ristic. You, if you don't know how it works, ask some of your party bosses. Why should we help you form the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Well, get out of the way. And why would the radicals attack us if we were helping you when we were on the side of the radicals? Leave us all alone, do as you start and choose. So, Mrkonjits, you've done a good job. I was sure, and by the way, you're 16 years younger than Borka Wolfich. I wouldn't mind if you stayed here either, but in any case, this assembly has more vice presidents, a secret vote only led by the oldest vice president and the oldest vice president chaired the sessions until the election of the new president. We do not want to take responsibility for forming or non-forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, what you've cooked up, you take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1053	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. My wish was just, despite these unwarranted criticisms of my friends from the SRS, that we might finish something on the deadline, because we can't finish this before the deadline. Unfortunately, we failed. Thank you very much for your cooperation. (President Milutin Mrkonjic leaves the presidency post. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1054	Since there's no one to give me a word I suggest, to avoid this situation, to have someone appoint a vice president to continue to lead the session. Are you giving me your word, Mr. Aligrudic? Of course I gave the order, because I don't want the Socialist Party of Serbia attacking someone to obstruct the formation of this government, or to help form this government. You have your vice president, Mr. Aligrudic, go ahead and manage this session. (President Milutin Mrkonjic returns to the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1055	I'm going down here in the old generation, if we could just get on the ball a little bit, as people would say. I'm taking a 15-minute break, and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to meet me on the second floor. Thank you very much. [[After break – 17,15]] So, please, let's get back to work. I'm sorry the break took a little while longer. It is my duty to inform you that on a proposal from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, all parliamentary groups and their bosses have agreed to work today until 1800 hours. I'm sure we'll be done with this agenda point by then. I give my word to Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1057	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to inform you that, after the agreement we have reached, the reasons for the prevention of Vice President Milutin Mrkonjic from holding the session have ceased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1058	Thank you, Mr. Dacic, for your concern. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Let Mr. Cvetanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1059	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since the renewal of the multi-party in Serbia and the held other multi-party parliamentary elections, and the first meeting of Mr. Nikolic's Assembly in the SRS parliamentary bench, has said that it was a man who has been indeed for all years, and during the rule of communists, with the idea of Serbian radicalism that he holds within him, both in the first days and in the first appearances of this assembly payphone. I must remind you that he is the first MP to be a Serbian flag, but not in a funny tone, but one day when there was a situation similar to what is happening to us today, he put it right here for the Parliament's pay phone to show that he is a Serbian patriot. There are older colleagues who remember that day, such as Mr. Shami, who was also the DSS MP at the time, along with Vojislav Kostunica. If you look at it, you could read something and see the night we talked about it, and when at that moment the honourable parliamentary majority elected him as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because in four days some lost their honor and face, many of them were ashamed of it and ashamed of it, you others, above all thought of you from the DS, because of the passion, which some more of you owned, except for Mr Micunovic, because he was our longtime colleague and, in some ways, the man who saw everything and looked at everything in various assemblies, but you couldn't see anything beyond what was on your paper in front of you. And that's your candidate, that's your proposal. And the hatred you have and one hysteria that has ruled against the SRS and Mr Tomislav Nikolic himself for years. I really must this evening, since you have been more hasty to remove such a man from the seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to place a sign of equality between you and some of you in your environment. For many years you have resisted to prove that you are not like them and that the conspiracy theory is that of Prof. Vojislav Seselj all these years, that you are constantly on the slaughterhouse, that you are Tadics, formerly Djindjics, Mycunovci and Kostunica are one of the same miles, and that you are governed by Americans and Western forces, and that those who are the traditional eternal enemies of the Serbian people, about us who fight with honor for the interests of Serbia and all citizens who live in it, think and think in the same way as you. It is not by chance that a special show was made on Ustasha Croatian television Saturday night, as they say - that they vote on it, because they do not have their own language, of course, stole it from the Serbs and made some nastodic Ustasha's new speech, and then they say - we will hold the final vote whether Tomislav Nikolic is a danger to the Balkans and what will happen. The result is always as you wish, but you can't achieve it. They had it 80 to 20, but the main characters, not by chance, in that special film on their national television are just the characters from these parliamentary benches. The one who signed up to be absent because he paid Jovanovic Mesic some summering in Ustasha Croatia so he won't come? He talked so beautifully about Tomislav Nikolic's danger to the Balkans and made a selfless contribution. You probably saw that, Mr. Jovanovic. Or maybe Natasa Kandic, who represents, along with all others who systematically break up the Serbian people and what we as a people represent in the worst possible way, and everyone else from so-called. NGOs. You should have told them, because these are your friends, that he was not born on February 15th, but at the meeting of the Lord, the greatest Serbian holiday, and that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as such a man, a patriot and a Serb, made a huge contribution that this state today has made to the Constitution and has made a huge contribution, honoring the function of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to establish a legislative authority. Unlike you, who do not ever see beyond his nose, he sees much further, as does the president of our party and every Serbian radical, thinks about what will happen to Serbia in five, ten, fifty years, where children will live in Serbia, what future they will have, what problems they will face. At the most difficult moment for the state and the people, since you've spent three months together and it didn't matter to you, you've been looking at each other through a gun, and we've been able to listen to everything you've said about each other, as you say today, he's only thought about one thing: establishing a legislative authority. Two letters wrote to the unfortunate Boris Tadic, that Serbia has the president of the assembly, that it has committees, that at any time the president of the National Assembly can summon it, if it decides on a fateful issue for the state and the people, and that is the question of both the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, of the southern province. When, as he explained it nicely, in the first days after the five-octobaric coup of America, Vojislav Kostunica was thrown out on the exhaust by Vojislav Kostunica as the presidential candidate for the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, those are the words of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, you've been thinking about what you're going to do and how you're going to say, it's slow, is it going to be able to run in the campaign, you know, August of the month, September. You push him somehow and there he is, on the wings of that coup, he has brought you all to power. I have to remind you, colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia, that we've reminded you a lot, and it's not as short a memory as you said on Monday, Tuesday night, to remind you of what you've been doing and what problems you've had with yours, as much as tonight or tomorrow, coalition partners from the Democratic Party. Isn't that you who left the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the moment Bosko Ristic introduced some new ones, when you were deprived of more than 30 mandates, when you left your parliamentary IDs? Aren't you the same, who, during the state of emergency, who was counter-constitutionally introduced by Natas Micic, went headlong and sought out Radet Bulatovic, and Acu Tomic, where, in some prisons, were they buried two metres underground, were they alive? These are now your coalition partners, those who have arrested people, those who have beaten us, bullied us, kicked us out of the National Assembly session, those who have ordered that the Serb assembly guard, and, as I said on that night, the people's Serb tribunal, Tomislav Nikolic, be so harassed and pulled out of the assembly bench, in which he has been sitting for 16 years, that this one part has cracked and that a part of the bench has happened to break away because they were so boastful and strong. Do you want to put women's socks on your heads again and break into factories and have crisis headquarters? Do you want to fire the workers again? Well, 800,000 workers have already announced your experts. There are many signs of equality between you individually and I don't care at all by these quotas as you did on the night that preceded this request to replace Mr. Nikolic. Because when I listen to that pompous Parivodić, with all Angela Merkel, Burns and other Ustashas he gathered with in Zagreb, what is the difference between him and the rest of the DS. It's the same for you, he's your tub. I don't care how you divide it by odds when you're exactly the same, there's no difference between you. To be a little funny right now, because we are not sad, as Serbia is not sad either, she is proud of Tom Nikolic for doing this right now, and you from the Democratic Party of Serbia are thinking about who's going to be kneeling on corn on corners tonight or tomorrow. Mr. Shormaz, you said the other night that you were going to make corn and that for punishment it must be for the rest of your life or not to enter this hall to work Bosko Ristic. You're not going to do it tonight instead of Bosk? He's your coalition partner and head of the coalition now, isn't he? As for human dignity, pride and honor, that's the most important thing, a man can win at the lottery, he can lose on the other side, he can, God forbid, cause an accident to happen to him, but it's like a stone and he always has to endure everything, and he has the strength to fight to the end, because fighting is, I guess, the meaning of life. But to fight for your country, to fight for your people as Tomislav Nikolic does, you will never learn. Tadic and Kostunica are like Lolek and Bolek, showing which card suits them, or place on the map of the world, only to travel, to go, to sell out interests, that Tadic first of all, Kostunica is pretending, he is like a nice, moderate nationalist, he will guard the state and the people, but he is not known, as in Alan Ford, which is unknown, who is a bigger fraud and who is number one. That battle will continue for a long time. But be assured that the people will remember what you have done first of all, the proud people who are day and night and in Serbia, and everywhere the Serbs live, celebrate the election of Tomislav Nikolic. You know what the proverb says-- it's better to be a lion one day in your life than a mouse for the rest of your life. Tomislav Nikolic is both a lion and a laf, and a man and an MP who deserves to be and what Serbia has chosen, and you will all be together for the rest of your life only mice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1060	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1061	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was established on 14 February this year. What we must do during this part of the agenda is try to restore the elementary political dignity that is a prerequisite for respecting our congregation. This dignity is threatened by the blackmail and abuse of the political will of citizens, which occurred on Monday and during the debate on this agenda. I think the political obligation of the LDP to speak a clear language because of the 220,000 citizens we represent in this House. Today, Kostunica does not replace Tomislav Nikolic. He is replacing himself today, and whether the parliamentary majority will have the strength to let him know and during Tuesday's debate, in a month, two, three or six or a year, it is not so important anymore. I am obliged to say that because of the atmosphere that recorded this session, the consultation that I am most often ashamed of, I am very clear that Kostunica tried to do in Serbia what Milosevic had done before. That is why he is the political successor of the way he acts in Serbian political life, Slobodan Milosevic and the creator of the consequences that, because of the situation in which our country is located, can be harder than those we faced after the victory over Slobodan Milosevic. Milosevic was scaring Serbia's Seselj, and Kostunica is doing it today by scaring Serbia's Nikolic. But he refuses to tell us that in the explanation his party submitted to us, with a request that we declare the shift of Tomislav Nikolic. The LDP said everything it had to say about Tomislav Nikolic, I do not want to repeat it, as the members of the SRS said, whether they speak about themselves or speak about LDP. What I'm trying to say is something that's obvious. Vojislav Kostunica is a political person who assumes a crucial responsibility for the consequences of the collapse of our fast-tracked political life, which is also being accelerated during the debate on the removal of parliament's president, who was elected five days ago. We, as representatives of the political forces that were supported by 2.5 million citizens in 2000 to change the country, cannot avoid political responsibility for all that has been happening in Serbia for the last seven years. Radicals or socialists can't be an excuse for unfinished jobs, and what we've been attending, as active participants for the past seven days, is actually the greatest political compromise of ideas that Serbia has gathered around at that time, ideas that were positive, ideas that have created hope, offered a vision and which, due to the absence of results today, so controversial. We do not want Serbia to be intimidated by the SRS, as some others do. We do not want to scare them with the SPS either, but we do not intend to keep quiet to the fact that, at this point in time, Tomislav Nikolic has done much more for the Serbian Parliament and parliament life in the country with his party, but Vojislav Kostunica and his own. The party that asks us to sit in parliament during the night, to work on weekends, to devise ourselves, has not been able to attend the debate she has initiated. This session wouldn't end without the will of the SRS. This agenda item could not be completed without the consent of Parliament Speaker Tomislav Nikolic. He showed in this session how some institution's president should treat the institution. I'm making a difference between what he did and all the discussions that marked our relationship. At the consultations of the heads of parliament's groups, which were organised, were scheduled, following a complete blockade of parliament, which resulted in the supreme irresponsibility of Kostunica being our MPs, instead of an extension of that agony, he offered clear solutions. Don't make us sit at night, this item of the agenda will end at 18:00, the assembly will start tomorrow at 10.00, it will end with a debate in principle at 14:00, the day after tomorrow we will continue to work from 14:00-16:00, at 1600 we will discuss the government, Serbia will get the government, we will honor the Constitution, we have fought against that constitution. Some others have fought for this constitution and their irresponsible actions have led the country into such a deep crisis and it is therefore our political obligation to say that they have done more to resolve this problem radically than those who have manipulated radicals and are trying to manipulate us. We will say a lot during the debate on the government, and I hope that the candidate for the new prime minister will sit in this bench, unlike the president of his party who was not ready to do such a thing, and who again did not offer us answers to that basic question - what is wrong with the President of Parliament today, which he did not miss five days ago, and what happened in the meantime for them to seek the removal of the President of Parliament? The SRS has been abused. I don't want to get into that party's intentions. The most prominent politician of the party has been abused, the Serbian Assembly has been abused, and the way credibility is restored to our institution is the language of truth and fact. We vote today the way we voted five days ago. We are fighting the SRS, but not with the ambition to make the devils of Serbian political life, but with consciousness and the idea that only by winning over them can we approach the one who abuses 1,200,000 voters of this country, twice as much as he gets on his list, blackmailing everyone around him, counting on our awareness of the moment in which we are working and the gravity of the state of the country. The most irresponsible of all, your DSS colleagues, you've been acting for the past five days. That's what I'm trying to tell you, with no intention of insulting your constituents or yourself. You supported irresponsible politics on Monday and today. On Monday irresponsible because she manipulated and acted dishonestly, today irresponsiblely because she has no strength to admit a mistake. We think it is a mistake to choose Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament's president, and we will fight for this parliament not to make that mistake in electing a new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1062	The word is Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1063	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to use the ten minutes left from the beginning of this debate as head of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1064	Excuse me, Mr. Dacic, 8.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1065	As far as I know, there's a split in two times ten, but well, no problem, I can say in eight minutes what I'm about to say. I think we should finish this farce as soon as possible. It is true that one MP today said that it is a policy and that everything in politics is possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't think anything is possible in politics after all. Repeatedly, the SPS supported Tom Nikolic thanks to an agreement with the DSS. The DSS, no one can blame her for what the government did with the DS, but I can resent her for breaking the promise she made to Tomislav Nikolic that she would not replace him from the seat of Parliament's president, even if she made a government with the DS. Mr. Vukic, Toma Nikolic and I were at that meeting. The data word, ladies and gentlemen, is far more valuable than any political authority. The SPS will not agree to be anyone's fear factor for political opponents. Why would someone scare someone with an SPS? They repeat once again, if it hadn't been for the SPS, ladies and gentlemen, there would have been hundreds of laws in this House that you say were in agreement with EU standards. In addition, they were also defrosted at the time and started new negotiations with the EU. G17 left the government because Ratko Mladic was not arrested. When will you leave the government now? Did you say when you were leaving the government or did someone tell you that you had to leave the government? Please state the time limit when there's a debate about the government's election. What is the deadline for you to be in government until Ratko Mladic is arrested or that principle was only important to bring down the government of Kostunica and to go to elections as soon as possible. The sooner you go to the elections, the sooner it takes you three months to form a new government of the Republic of Serbia. Please don't blame anyone else for not having enough time to choose these organs, elect the government and adopt these laws. You've had time ahead, you've had time since the first day of the election, when you announced that the democratic bloc had won in Serbia. What democratic block is that? Please don't insult Serbian citizens' intelligence anymore. The democratic bloc does not exist, there are only those who are called Democrats, because they all came from the DS, but just because someone gave someone a name doesn't mean they're a Democrats. Stop sharing Serbia more with divisions that do not exist among Serbian citizens. What does that mean? Do these other parties that are not in power belong to the democratic bloc? What's democracy? Democracy is the rule of the people. Who has the right to challenge the will of the people in the election? You ladies and gentlemen have no right to do that. Mr Jovanovic, I have no intention of replicating him, not to waste time, but he said this reminds him a little of the time Milosevic, when he was putting together the government and everything. Mr. Jovanovic, if the SPS were able to put this together, do you think it would be such a farce or tragedy, whatever you want. At Milosevic, you all ran to the canoes to get into the government. Therefore, everyone, everyone, everyone, as Vuk Draskovic says, as someone must say so in parliament. In any case, you said, the G17 said the government would be formed because of Serbia. Then why did G17 leave the government when and when Serbia was in trouble? So I don't care how you put together a government. I am talking about whether we in Serbia will cultivate agreements between political parties, or whether the political scene in Serbia will be a political stock market, who gives more. What kind of principled policy has brought together and divided Monday's DSS and DS today? What was the dissension of principled politics, that they called each other traitors, and that I did not say what threats they were making. But the need to form a government has erased all mutual differences, and so it will happen that the DSS MPs, which I do not at all blame, led by Milosevic Aligrudic, who is collateral damage and sacrifice because he has to present the party's views, will today, within five or six days as it has passed, have to say twice different views. If you think all this is possible in Serbia, I think you're wrong. The rulers, the authorities, may forget what politicians say, but the people don't. The SPS has remained pure and principled in all of this. From the beginning, we have been saying, if there is no parliamentary majority, we will vote for that candidate who is the largest political party candidate. If there are parliamentary majority, if the SPS is in that majority, it will not support that candidate if it is not. The DSS and the DS have taken advantage of each other. I just don't know, it's enough that we all take stenograms from that session and quote them for days, days, days, we have material for 10 days of full-time sessions what you said about each other. Tomorrow you will sit, ladies and gentlemen, here in these same benches. Why were you making fun of me? To get a few ministerial chairs more. Why you used this man, Tom Nikolic, the SRS and the SPS, with the best intentions. You used it not to give Serbia an institution, but to get a more favourable treatment in relations with the DS. That's incorrect to the political parties that have been working with you. Do you think your friends will be the ones you fought three years after 2000? It's just that you've torn down the bridges to get back. It'll be hard to restore trust. The colleagues I was with, so both Mr. Nikolic and Vukic told me repeatedly that I shouldn't trust the DSS. I convinced them it was a good deal to make. In the end, I consider this not only a political relationship, but I also consider this a personal relationship between the DSS towards the SRS and the SPS. No one's anybody's money for a job, but life's a long one. Therefore, the SPS will not vote to resolve Tomislav Nikolic, because we have not received any letter from Solana that security services are under control now, because we continue to stick to DSS-SRS-SPS agreements, because I have not yet been informed that this agreement is no longer valid, and that is probably the main order in political communication. Form a government, choose a new president, want Serbia to do best, to protect national and state interests, and you, who do not like to look at each other, may it be for all of us and God help us all. I wish you the shortest mandate and, of course, I would like to thank Tomislav Nikolic for accepting this function, although he may have been aware that he would be on it for five, six or seven days. I want to thank the SPS MPs who believed in the agreement between the SRS and the DSS. I also want to thank the DSS for one specific relationship with these agreements. Of course, lessons must be learned, and of course, once again, Toma Nikolic will be resolved or resign. But there will be confusion for you who voted for him five days ago, and today you have signed to resolve it. The face and honor are lost, ladies and gentlemen, only once, and you chose to lose it on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1066	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I'd like to ask Mr. Alexander Wolfie to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is, would you ever make it within the time limit that you needed to replace Tomislav Nikolic, or to vote for his resolution, is the question of whether you could ever vote the law on the ministries, and of course that we were only doing a little obstruction, could never be on the agenda, nor could there be a debate on the new government of the Republic of Serbia. There was a difference between Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS and you. On the one hand, honor, morality and responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, and on the other hand, only a desire to get your hands on a chair and to deal with yourself in the worst possible way with those of you who think you are at risk of political danger. That's understandable. I understand you have a great fear of Serbian radicals. This fear is not because of Serbia, because of citizens, it is because many of you who are involved in crime, who were in power, would have to respond to justice. Djelic would have to explain where he got 11m euros from, Dinkic would have to explain where he got 50m euros from, many would have to explain how and how they robbed Serbian citizens. That's why you have that fear. Someone says Kostunica is not replacing Nikolic today but replacing himself. I want to tell you that Kostunica will not replace anyone today, but he tried to replace not Tomislav Nikolic, but Serbia and its citizens, Mr Aligrudic. That's what you tried today, that's what you tried yesterday. You want to destroy Serbia. That's your goal, that's your intention. He says they were scaring Serbia Nikolic, so they staged that hack through B92, RTS and some other TV houses. You're scaring Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic? Serbia fears you, Serbia loves Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS. That's what you can't understand. That's enough, ladies and gentlemen, those stories, we're nice, we're European, we're fancy, we're not know what. You radicals, so it's contagious, like this or something. No, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia told you, we are the best part of Serbia's political elite, because Serbian citizens have the most trust in the SRS, in Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic. I don't know, and I can't talk about it on behalf of the parliamentary group, we didn't even talk about it, but today at the break of our session, I followed the information programme of Serbian Television. They even made a forspan and said, imagine, he says, respecting the will of Serbia's majority will form the government of the democratic bloc. Then I did a little math and I figured out what kind of liars they were on RTS. I calculated 22, how much did the HDZ coalition, DS and SDP get, 16, how much did the DSS coalition, NS and JS get, that's 38 and 6, how much did it get G 17 plus. That is 44% of Serbian citizens' votes. It's not Serbia's majority. You are a minority Serbia, but you will be a convincing minority Serbia after any subsequent statement by Serbian citizens. Let RTS not lie, I will now say: I pay more Serbian television subscription, lie like that, I won't even think about it, so I don't know what kind of consequences he's faced in any place. Tomislav Nikolic taught everyone in the National Assembly a lesson about someone who is a Democrats by definition. When you had no solution that you could never blame anyone, especially Serbian radicals, Tomislav Nikolic came up with a solution and told you, "Short down everything you say, all the nonsense you say, I will go out and resign." Because he sees that there is an immoral parliamentary group that follows the footsteps of Zoran Djindjic, who first introduced the principle in Serbia that everything against morality is allowed and best, because his sentence is "to which it is to let it go to church". The principle today follows Vojislav Kostunica and Milos Aligrudic. They are the ones who signed a request five days ago for Tomislav Nikolic to be elected president of the assembly. Afterwards, they asked for his shift, although they had promised hard, not only not to take him down, I am a witness, they begged Tomislav Nikolic never to give in under the pressures of DS or anyone else, so that he would offer to resign if, God forbid, you formed a majority government with the "yellows" as you said. Mr. Aligrudić, because of these lies, because of this immorality, you are going to a political dump, to the wasteland of history, and Tomislav Nikolic gets all the glory of an honest, honest, serious and responsible man. Tomislav Nikolic showed you not only how the National Assembly is run, he showed you how to run the state. You can put the government together, you have most of it, you'll put it together. I hear some have already gone to give orders, even though some newspapers have not yet declared them ministers. I already see them going around their parishes and watching where they are, what's next for sale, what's next in the tender. I have nothing against everything you're going to do, not because of your personal vanity, but because of the problems with the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens looked forward to it, although it was not a function that brought great power, the election of Tomislav Nikolic. Two days of lies, organized lies, forgeries, B 92 thief, who, along with some ministers, robbed the state for 10 and a half million euros, two days of these organized lies, and then your request comes to change a man of honor, who is guilty only because he loves Serbia. Only because it's against him is Agim Ceku, Ram Manaj and only because against him are those from the EU and the United States, who take away our Kosovo and the Metohija. To dare the Prime Minister to say, "I form a government with "yellows" because I want to protect Kosovo and Metohija". And five days ago, we were told, "we must protect Kosovo and Metohija". We know exactly how Aligrudic said: "These DS traitors will sell Serbia". Mr. Aligrudic, there is no game with Serbia. Serbia will not forget this for you. We politicians can, we don't matter, we're here today, we're not here tomorrow, but Serbia won't forgive you. Today Tomislav Nikolic, although he may or may not be president in 15 minutes, is in heaven today Tomislav Nikolic, and you are underground, not physically, but morally, Mr Aligrudic. Tonight, Serbia will have shared its feelings to welcome Tomislav Nikolic's resignation. At the same time, people will be saddened by the fact that Tomislav Nikolic is not the head of the assembly, while at the same time looking forward to seeing how a great man and a great politician can behave, how he can respect democratic procedure. How he can do more than that, how he can show what it's like to be a man, not want and not yearn for a chair more than for his Serbia. You forgot that. You threw Serbia under your feet, Mr. Aligrudic. Serbia is not your front to play with. It is not Tomislav Nikolic your servant to play with him. That's what the citizens of Serbia will show you, Mr. Aligrudic. About Solana and the one he made head of national security, I won't even talk anymore. Everything you've been up against, you've done in the end. You let Tadic handle all of that. You gave it to him because Javier Solana asked for it. That's why Serbia has to beat all of you. In the end, since I don't know what will be decided at the status conference, which is being held in the context of Vojislav Seselj, this may have been one of the last debates in the National Assembly, and I have to express, and to take advantage of that kind of personal relationship and personal note, and to say that today was the easiest time for me, last night and today, it was the easiest time for me in the National Assembly. I have never beat you here with more ease, because I have protected the right, not only of a friend and a good man, but of a great man, of a statesman, of a man who will lead Serbia, of a man who has shown himself to protect morals, of protecting Kosovo and Metohija and of defending Serbia. Unlike you, Mr. Kostunica, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Dinkic, who will destroy Serbia, but the Serbian people will not give you, will stand in your way and preserve and defend Serbia. But faith, Mr. Nikolic, has shown how Serbia is being led.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1068	I ask the President of the Tomislav Nikolic Assembly to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I only got one dollar from anyone who pronounced my name in the world and in Serbia these days, I'd be a millionaire, I guarantee it. God created the world for six days, and I shook him in two. The moment the public service started spreading fear of my election Tuesday afternoon, I realized that you had agreed. Some say I was naive. No, I was just being honest. You can always cheat on honest people and the honest ones will never cheat on you. I didn't need this function. Serbia needed the Parliament's president's election and I warned the whole Serbian public about it. Indeed, there was a conversation with the DSS representative, whom I asked before witnesses, "Is that what I'm talking to Vojislav Kostunica right now?" He said, "Yes, I have full authority, as if in front of you Vojislav Kostunica." I was forced to promise not to resign when the "yellows" seek it, if you form a government, because Vojislav Kostunica said that Serbia at the head of the assembly needs a patriot who will not betray Kosovo, and Boris Tadic will issue Kosovo and Metohija. The government will fall apart, but we will have an assembly that will not allow treason to be carried out. Otherwise, believe me, the seat of the National Assembly is like last year's snow. I was saying, perhaps unsuccessfully, to the citizens of Serbia after the election that the SRS has no one to go to the coalition with. But I'm moving Serbia too, I'm listening, I've heard a lot of voices, "what does this Toma make important, what doesn't go with Kostunica when he's a patriot and a nationalist? "Here you are, citizens of Serbia, patriotism and nationalism! I was indeed chosen by the people of Serbia as speaker of the assembly, as you will choose a new president in the Assembly in the next day, representing the people. I'll congratulate him first. I will not leave the hall, I will not refuse to attend when he takes office, I will never say that it is not the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will not act as president of the Assembly to share Serbia, as you have tried. Then when it became clear that it was difficult to convince the people of Serbia to replace me, then you called for the help of Brussels and Washington, to be replaced by Brussels and Washington, as if to worry about someone in Brussels, Strasbourg, Washington who is Tomislav Nikolic and how much danger the world is. I've really shown in these few days how much danger I've been to the world, so much danger that you've been scared and you've had to replace me. You know, a man is mostly made up of water and water is a quiet liquid, and I suffer these pressures. I'm not going to break anytime soon, most likely. I know Vojislav Kostunica is also made up of water, but my cheek is from another material. And as a candidate for the President of the Assembly and as president of the Assembly, I was dragged through the mud twice. I don't feel dirty, and even if you've made me feel bad, it's a Serbian mud, and as long as it depends on the Serbian mud on whether I'm going to be dirty, get rid of me. But you won't find European or mud or gold on me. If you all turn to the land where you live, which you should lead, for which you live, everything will be easier. From what I understand, Vojislav Kostunica, Serbia is awaiting a difficult exam. The EU takes away Kosovo and Metohija, Russia defends us. Serbia will be ahead of the election -- whether it will continue to serve the EU, with Kosovo and Metohija taken, with Vojvodina, to which aspirations have already been shown, with the prospect of a 20-year-old entry into the EU or will work closely with those who are friends or with that state, the Russian Federation, who in all this supports us. As I understand today's statement by the president of the DSS parliamentary group, the DSS is now in the position that Kosovo and Metohija cannot be changed for EU membership. As I understand it, the DS, the EU's Iberales. As I understood representative G17 plus at a meeting with the Security Council ambassadors, G17 plus has no dilemma -- Kosovo or the EU. If you take away Kosovo, our imperative is not the EU -- so said G17 Plus, it is likely present in the hall. When I was on my way out of the O.R., I said, "Are you aware of what you said?" He said, "I said out of my soul." Has the party taken your soul, ma'am? Could you now say from your heart about this speaker - if the EU takes away Kosovo and Metohija that G17 plus or at least you will not approve of G17's participation in the government. If that exam is waiting for us, the SRS is defined for the Russian Federation, and you know it very well. If this exam awaits, I will take the citizens of Serbia to fight this government that is created here, if it survives after Kosovo and Metohija fall. It's my life's work, I'm about to end what a man can call political ambitions. If that happens to us, nothing will be left of Serbia. If you form a government to bridge the loss of Kosovo and Metohija, you are very wrong. I'm waiting for the candidate's exposé for Prime Minister. We will clearly ask Vojislav Kostunica -- did he agree with Tadic to calmly accept the loss of Kosovo and Metohija. If you accept it peacefully, we will not, and then peace in Serbia will never be. I also use the opportunity to congratulate Marija Sheriffovic, and Verica Sheriffovic to thank her wonderful celebrity voice to the genes she passed on to her daughter. Let me tell you one more time, and now I'm ashamed to be President of the Assembly to some of you. I am resigning as president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-13-0.u1070	I thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I remind you he's a member of the 28th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia provide that in the event of the resignation of the President of the National Assembly, the term of office of the session at which he resigned, i.e. at the first next session of the National Assembly, should he resign in the time between the two sessions. The leftover does not open a search, nor is it decided, but the term of office of the president on this basis is merely being determined. According to Article 28(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly found that Tomislav Nikolic resigned as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to thank, on your behalf and on your behalf, Tomislav Nikolic, former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for doing the jobs of the president of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 10.00 a.m., the session continues at 7th. This point is over. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 143 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards for the vote. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall, and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the meeting of the People's Messenger, Nenad Canak. I would like to inform you that the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has appointed MP Tomislav Nikolic. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE MINISTRATIVES (principles) The authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party is Mr. Aleksandar Vukic. You have received a bill of law submitted by 128 MPs. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, the MP, Mr Milos Aligrudic, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
