ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2592	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National Parliament of Andrea Galgo-Ferenci. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Completion of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Meaning (Single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Momir Marković, Radiša Ilic, Nemanja Sarović and Nikola Vukelić. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Committee's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2593	I was not surprised at all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which was recommended by the Committee not to accept the amendment. Otherwise, anything the SRS suggests mostly refuses and suggests you do not accept. However, this amendment is one of the amendments that you should really accept from the democratic bloc, as it will sort of regulate future relations, relations when soon, after the next parliamentary elections, which we hope for in the autumn, will take over the SRS helm. Then it will be easier for you if you adopt this amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 relating to Article 30(1), in which you say that after the word 'The People's Assembly', the words'most of the votes of the Members of the People's Parliament' are added. I don't know anything can be adopted unless most of the votes of the MPs in this assembly are adopted. But my amendment doesn't apply to that part. It is your problem, and of course, when we take power, we will have to put many of the laws that you have made for the drawer or for the shelf to put out of force and pass laws that will help the state to function, which will help the citizens of Serbia. My amendment refers to item 2. In Article 1 after Article 1, point 2 is added: the words “seven years” are replaced by the words “four years”. In order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I suppose it is not clear to you, but the MPs of the SRS are clear what this is about, I will read this Article 30, which is covered by Article 1 of the amendment and the addition of the law. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by a majority vote of all MPs, elects the trustee on a proposal from the Committee of the National Assembly responsible for the information. For the trustee, a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights is elected. And let's analyze this second position of Article 30 a little bit and see that you didn't suggest that it change. He says a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights is elected for the trustee. What is this face in Serbia, and who has recognised its reputation and expertise? Is it a professional public? Is the Academy of Science? Is it a college or a university? What's this about? Or it's some kind of NGO, or you're the one who's used to beating their en-ji-o-ner. Some NGO has recognised the reputation and expertise of a person you plan to place as a trustee free access to information of public importance. (From O.R.: Theme. You have no idea, this is a topic. The trustee may be a person who fulfils the conditions for working in state authorities; well, of course he can't be a person who doesn't meet the conditions for working in state authorities because this is a kind of state body; who has completed a law school and has at least 10 years of work experience; of all this, a law school and 10 years of work experience can pass, although it is also disputable, because someone can also have 30 years of work experience without having any idea of rights. Besides, we made sure of that when you brought in those you called experts, so the experts turned out just to fill their pockets and their neighbor's pockets. If you mean an expert thief, you've shown it in 2001. In an expert way to rob a state, to rob a citizen. He goes on to say - the trustee cannot be a person who performs his duties or is employed by another state body or political party. Of course it can't be if it's employed by another state authority, because this is going to be a job, it can't be two jobs, and it can't start two jobs. But this is a bit symptomatic -- it can't be in a political party. Come on, point your finger at one of these experts you've been bringing in since 2002 from all over the white world, and wherever you've heard that someone, you immediately declared it an expert, packed it on a ship or on a plane and brought it to Serbia to professionally destroy our country here for seven years. Tell me someone who's not a member of the political party, any political party, unless he's in those traitorous NGOs, there's a lot of them, thank God. A lot of work will be done by the SRS when Putin's system resolves the issue of NGOs. But tell me who it is you're going to propose for a trustee for free access to information of public importance unless he was a member of your party. Even Mr. Sabic, who is now doing the job, was a member of the party, though his party fell apart, whether so was Meho, that was your party together. Your party falls apart and then he's a non-partisan figure. What I have submitted to the amendment refers to the duration of the term of office. It says here, the trustee is elected on time of seven years. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MPs are elected for a period of four years because it is a four-year election cycle, and then, if a man of reputation, of dignity, of expertise, of consciousness and conscience, then we will choose him too. In fact, we'll choose the next trustee anyway, you won't. I propose my amendment that the trustee's term lasts for four years, as everyone is elected for four years, only one who serves as DS president and some call him the president of Serbia, and otherwise yesterday I saw him in a masked uniform, was looking for Goran Hadzic after Frusko Gora, probably; he's the only one we choose for five years. If the mandate of the MP takes four years, if the term of office of the minister is four years, if the term of office of the Prime Minister is four years, and then goes to the elections, if Serbian citizens show confidence in the political group from which both the Prime Minister and the ministers are from, then they can extend the mandate. However, it can happen to gather the dough and the tail, to put everything in one basket and make what kind of majority -- they agree like horns in a bag, but Solana comes and brings a superglue and then patchs you up and glues you up. I'm afraid, the sun begins, the heat starts, very soon it's going to give in to that Solana glue. But to get back on the subject, it can't, it's just a possibility that tomorrow's government, which will be conducted by the SRS, is obstructing exactly who you've proposed to have his term for seven years, so he says seven years, so he can run again and that's 14 years, and that's half a working century. I suggest, on behalf of the SRS, that the mandate of the information trustee lasts for four years, as long as all normal mandates last. Of course, the mandate of the public information trustee, who will be proposed by the SRS, will take two times four years, because I think you've had enough for the citizens, that you've come here. When the SRS takes over soon, believe me, we won't have to change the trustees or any other places we fill. The reason is very simple. Yesterday we had to convince this so-called. Most of it, this scrupulous coalition by 4:00 p.m. to accept something that was most normal and that was mandatory for your gentlemen from the City Hall. I attended several meetings where this one, I don't know what it's called, otherwise the chief architect of Belgrade, came to Zemun, visited the Grmovac, promised hills and valleys, but as soon as he crossed that bridge, that overpass leading to Belgrade, he forgets and agrees, as you forget your obligations and lie in all election campaigns. Because of your stubborn appearance or lack of authority in your party that can make this Komatina, Komadini, as it is already called, irrelevantly, he is a minor figure, to order that he put the signature, and all the papers were there, were finished, was accompanied by the guarantee of the Zemun Municipality of Zemun that, if anyone did not accept, those above whose fields went the power line, that the Zemun municipality would compensate for the damage to that person. So the Belgrade City Assembly had no obligation. Your stubbornness will drive you to a political asylum. You do that, you think it's part of your coalition. But there's another thing. The SRS, the Zemun Municipal Committee, and other municipal committees slowly collect documentation on the operation of the Komatin, and city leaders and all others. Soon after the next local elections, Komatina will surely go to a dark and cold place, not to break down anymore, as it is the figures of 10, 20, and more thousands of euros, which they have asked for just such signatures. Since the citizens of the Bolsheviks had no need to give money for such a signature, Komatatina would not. If we had known, we would have asked this "leader of the Meridian Bank" of yours to single out that 20 grand from that 11 million or what he held the people's office here, so in a year, he made six million euros, to single out that 20 grand, and to give the man and to finish the job on time. Let's get back to the trustee. The SRS believes that the mandate should not be longer than the mandate on which MPs are elected, that it should not be longer than the mandate on which ministers and governments are elected, because this is one of the attempts to reduce the powers of the future authorities a little bit and prevent the future government from doing its job. I suggest, gentlemen, both to you from the DSS and to you from the NSA that you accept this amendment. Here, Mr Markicevic has already announced that they will accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2594	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milickovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2595	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 226, and this is a statement by the Secretary of State for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Dusan Prophetovic, given to one extremely and explicitly anti-Serbian radio and television, and it is a statement saying that the Republic of Serbia will not break diplomatic relations with countries that potentially unilaterally recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. This is a direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I consider this to be an invitation to potential states that were going to do this. I come from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. My grandfather's graves, grandparents, brothers and sisters are in Kosovo and Metohija. I cannot understand the position of a government representative, and I think this is the beginning of these lower government officials to recognise, or agree to recognise Kosovo and Metohija independence. Therefore, I would like to warn the government of the majority that these statements by their officials are not in line with the Constitution, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I ask that this be made known by the Serbian Parliament. The SRS has filed a motion to vote on a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. We've predicted exactly that these scenarios are possible. I will remind you, immediately after the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the DSS was that at the very least, it would review relations with any such countries. That's what Mr. Micunović is on one television 11th. At 05:00, he said that if some states recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, it would be "some noises in communication, in terms of diplomatic note to that country and the end". So, the government of Vojislav Kostunica is obviously already ready, of course, to call primarily on the DSS, who also campaigned for Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, that they too have revised their position, that they are under pressure and these statements, which Mr Micunovic then said, are ready for this shameful act. So I'm looking for an urgent answer to this point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2596	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the previous amendment, I would like to say that there is no need to bind the role of the Commissioner for Public Information for a particular political party or for the length of the term of office of a government, a coalition or some authority. He should be above it. That's one thing. Secondly, I've reported back on the breach of Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, you weren't in the O.R. yesterday when I asked that question. I think it would be appropriate to inform the MPs that you spoke to the Director of Public Service yesterday, whether the topic of conversation was to abolish TV transmission or reduce and limit TV transmission, or if it was a chat, because the Director of the Public Service is known for appearing in a strange way in various places, so he was one of the officials on the night of the welcome of Milorad Ulemek Legion at the highest state level, in the interior ministry building. He was also present in what is current today. Today you have a full newspaper, where one of the people who has been branded head of the tobacco mafia, it seems to me that Bojana Bajrusevic, related to Mrs Mirjana Markovic, was with her every day at the cafe "Fresca", Saturday night at a famous Belgrade restaurant, so that she would suddenly disappear from Serbia on Sunday. So, I hope that the Commissioner for Public Information will deal with this kind of thing because these things are of public importance to Serbia. Similarly happened when a human rights adviser or legal questions from former SRJ president, and the current prime minister of Serbia, publicly, through newspapers, called on his client, otherwise accused within the framework of the bankruptcy mafia, not to make a statement but to flee the country and the man fled the country. I guess that's a new contribution to legalism in Serbia. One more, regarding the provisions of 219 and 220. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. President, on several occasions I warn that the debate on any bill is completely pointless until Serbia has a Constitutional Court. I do not understand at all why the first topic and the first item of the agenda, when it has not already been done under the First Regular Session, is not the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, at least from the President of the Republic's quota and from the National Parliament's quota. Let's get out of that maze, because any law, when adopted before and before the decree is announced by the President of the Republic, may later be subject to an assessment of constitutionality. As before who, if we don't have a Constitutional Court and it's the most flagrant violation of the Constitution. Mr. President, I advise you to make the necessary consultations, because I can tell you that several parliamentary groups will immediately request an assessment of the constitutionality of these laws on the agenda. And what then, what did we do, "we've been painting again for nothing"? Let's get this House serious, and you, Mr. President, are the most responsible, as well as the Minister's announcement, I don't know what the Minister is now, the economy... Mr. Batic, I'm sorry. ) Another sentence, because it's about constitutional law, too. Mladjan Dinkic publicly says Radovan Jelasic will not be elected to parliament, contrary to the provisions of Article 5. The constitutional law, which must be respected, will be at the post by the end of the term of office and no one at all. The theme is Constitutional Law, the subject is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because the Constitution and the Constitutional Law... (President: You entered the fifth minute, Mr. Batic. I answered two points at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2598	I owe you some information. As for the Constitutional Court judges, it will be one of the points of the agenda at the next session, we have received proposals from the Constitutional Court judges, so we will very quickly create the conditions for the Constitutional Court to begin work. As for my conversation with Mr Tijanic yesterday, I asked him to send everything he said to me in writing, and the heads of the parliamentary groups will be aware of it, so we can act together, and it is about seeing the Public Service in which the transfers of assembly sessions can be carried forward in advance. You'll be informed of that in time anyway, so I hope I've answered all the questions. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am not pleased with your response, although you answer to Mr. Batic, but it is a matter concerning all 250 MPs, or 249, because you are the one who conducted the talks with Tianic and our future work. If you have now said that the national Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is being transferred to advances, first let me ask the gentlemen of Public Service and Aleksandr Tijanic, who came up with the idea that after 17 years of MPs, instead of Miroslav's letter, Miroslav's Cyrillic, who existed as such in the transfer, change, let's say, the font, to begin with. Secondly, as regards yesterday's transfer, when SRS MPs spoke about the problem in the village of Grmovac, Mr Tijanic should take care of the fact that, let's say, in Nisavska County, in the part of Šumadija and in many other parts of Serbia there was a picture and there was no tone, and then people came out as silent speakers to the public without the nation being able to hear what it was about. Third, the public of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is something the MPs fought for in different ways, primarily the MPs of the SRS, but so far no one has thought to make any modification, or dare to do so in particular. She had such ideas, however, because of her impotence and the fact that she was the worst president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because she was suffocating democratic processes and because it was a disgrace for the nation to see how the president treats the MPs. But it's really amazing that you, anytime and anywhere, here I am Vice President of the National Assembly, and I don't know what you're doing and what kind of conversations you're having, talking behind the scenes about what is the flow of democracy in our society. What you can't see and what's secret, it's an introduction to a kind of dictatorship, you know. It is truly amazing that anyone who thinks that the highest legislative authority can discuss important issues, about the adoption of laws, about what the people are interested in, and does not, God forbid that it should come to someone's mind, and as I understood Mr Batic, I guess that it was also discussed, is that there are no congregation transfers, there are no promotions, only pictures and tones to be better, that or that this font that existed for 17 years, and that the RTS representatives are involved for an hour when the RTS news is, they are not doing so exactly when the SRS MPs are behind a pay phone. You remember that during the period when we were part of the government and when those directed by RTS, the strongest president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, protested, seems to me, when Veselinov or so was one of the representatives of the national minorities behind the pay phone, and it happens at that very moment that the speaker appears and talks, and no MP of the opposition is heard. It's often happening to us now, but anyone who dares to reach this public level, which can be much better... I can see that, but it's the manner of Radomana Bozovica, that banging, well it doesn't matter, I see it's time. So, we are going to go against the most strongly, and that is our obligation to voters and to all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2600	I thank you, Your Honor. I just want to respond to Natasa Jovanovic's MP. So, I absolutely agree with you, and, as I said the day I was elected President of the Assembly, I believe that direct television transmission of democracy's fluids and together with you I will fight to make it so in the future, you have no reason to worry. Mr. Rajko Baralic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2601	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure to give one notice before I say so. Mr. Batic, you spoke well, only there was no Constitutional Court in your day, so please explain it. Mr. President of the National Assembly, seven MPs, this National Assembly has been elected to the RTS Programme Committee. When you talk to Mr. Tijanic about the promotion of TV transmissions, be kind enough to inform them, and we will inform him that it would be normal for him to talk to us about the issue that is exclusively in our, despite the advisory, jurisdiction. The truth is, he may find it more interesting to talk to you, but I warn you and him that we have been elected for three years, that no one can call us back, even when we are not MPs, because Mr. Vukosav Tomašević is now and is not a National MP, and that our mandate takes three years and that we cannot be elected again. I also inform the DS gentlemen that Mr. Dragore Hiber has resigned and that they do not have a representative there, although they have two-thirds of the members in the section. Therefore, when this is a topic, it would be perfectly normal for those who do this work to be at least informed. If you continue to inform me through the media of what the RTS software concept is, I will be pleased to keep my promise to submit a proposal to amend and supplement the law that the television subscription in Serbia is regulated so that citizens will not pay it. So please, it really doesn't make any sense that you work that way. There are certain rules, there are Rules of Procedure as they are done. So if you had the idea that in any way it would be a restrictive variant of what we have today, it wouldn't go away. RTS is risking a TV subscription. They should know that, as the EPS also risks less than five million and 200,000 euros each year. They charge so much from the Public Service because they charge radio-television subscription. So MPs can do anything when there are 126. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask that we be solid on this issue. Public service is not a public enterprise, it is a public service. It is funded by Serbian citizens' incomes and by those who pay more for a TV subscription than they can monthly on any personal need. So, on their behalf, I speak and speak on behalf of at least a million Serbian citizens who are currently not receiving any television and radio signals. I also ask you to inform Mr Tijanic and everyone else, here in 2001, that they removed the frequency of the Third Channel, as someone is now using illegally, as the Enter Television illegally uses the frequency of the Ju-info channels. It's a national resource. I expect you to understand, in this communication with the Public Service, from basic correctness, that this National Assembly there has chosen seven MPs, that on behalf of this Parliament and Serbian citizens, we are doing some work. Every job I've been entrusted with is responsible and I don't allow anyone to disabling me in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2602	I accept your suggestion, Mr. Baralic, and I agree that the next conversation should be in one broader composition and that the heads of Parliament's clubs should be present, of course, and the Programme Council. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2603	I am reporting on the basis of Article 226, which accurately states that the President of the National Assembly should inform the MPs of what they are asking for. I can't look back on this previous presentation and any previous exhibitions about our Public Service, RTS, led by Aleksandar Tijanic, excellent journalist, undeniable, mediocre editor and no director. What has this director done for all this money he's got since he came to power in television? Nothing. Changed the scene. He brought in his vedet, which pays huge sums from some of his own funds, which no director in the former Yugoslavia has ever had, let alone here in Belgrade. There is only one test that determines who is a good journalist on Serbian TV, and who is not, and that is whether you are fond of Aleksandar Tijanic. That's all you can say about this man, the humble possibilities. Besides, I can confirm it this way. We saw him when he was alone on the market, when his private "Citizen" list came out, which he paid with his own money. Of course, the leaf failed in about a week. His second major public attempt was BK. Of course, prescribed television and nothing original. So much for that man, I don't think he deserves any more. As for the member I reported to 226, I request a simple piece of information that the president wouldn't have had to be difficult to come by. I want to know why the parliamentary groups here must ask for signatures to discuss Kosovo and Metohija in the first place. I think it's a life-threatening matter right now that's the most urgent topic that needs to be discussed. After all, it is a topic that a certain consensus has been reached in this society. All of us who have advocated the new Constitution of Serbia have accepted that Kosovo and Metohija remain an integral part of our Serbia. Of course, that was both DS and DSS, most of the parties present here. Why are we avoiding this now? So I'm officially asking you to send me this information, not to fill this assembly with some side issues you've been talking about for about seven years, since your famous October 5th. The draft law supplementing the Free Access Act is on the agenda. It's an epic story we've been listening to for seven years. Seven years, none of that, because you don't want to know who all the Ubba agents are, who the CIA agents are, who the agents are, the em-i-five (MI 5). Of course, as I speak, I'm looking at this left-hand side, the positional side. It would be interesting to see, but I'm sure there will be nothing here from this law again. So you're absolutely distracting yourself, you're putting some stories into this people that you're sure there's going to be heated debates that will last forever and that's why you're going to blame the SRS. Our goal is to bring things to an end, to make everything absolutely clear. So right now, as I am talking about all of this, a debate has started in the Belgrade City Assembly, where five six counts discussing taxes, and as the 16th point, a discussion on the change of the name of Bulevar AVNOJ to Bulevar Zoran Djindjic was introduced. You know perfectly well that no consensus has been reached on this subject in our society. You personally think he's a hero, a revolutionary on October 5th. We, and most of the people, think it's a whore. So that's where we won't agree. There will be a sharp debate that will go public, with this topic you will drag people into the coming months, and Kosovo will thus push you into the shadows. Kosovo and Metohija is topic number one...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2604	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first replica of what the MP Mr. Baralic said. It is true that for a time there was no Constitutional Court, but very short of luck also in the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, because of the obstruction of the same ones who today are not at all interested in the Constitutional Court, which are known for the great legalists. Mr. President, I'm not happy with your answers. You can't say -- it's going to be the next session of the Constitutional Court judges, and now it doesn't matter. Let's reverse the order of moves, because the Constitutional Law predicts a reverse order of moves. First the Constitutional Court, then the harmonisation of various laws, including those on the agenda today, which must be agreed by December 31st next year. The Constitutional Court is a previous question. Let's stop now, to choose, if chosen, I'm not sure the ruling coalition will agree on the constitutional court's composition. He won't. So, first one, then another. Secondly, I'm not happy with your answers when you've had a controversy about the promotion of television transmissions. It's a very stupid thing to do, and it's slightly underestimating the intelligence of the MPs. On both sides, a year and a half ago DHSS launched an initiative before the Constitutional Court for breach of the Constitution regarding a television subscription. It didn't come to the agenda because there's no Constitutional Court. Last year, we collected 15,000 signatures to amend the Public Information Act and abolish forced collection, practically through an electricity bill, a TV subscription. You can ignore it all, but it's a violation of the Constitution. In all of this, I am speaking to you as President of Parliament, and especially to the MPs of the DS, cannot go beyond all else. You can't keep everything quiet, not Balinovac, not Tijanic, not Mihajlov, not Jelasic, not buying locomotives over the butys, you've said it all, you've challenged it all, not the road ewe-cablar mafia, you can't get past it. No government can be above the basic moral principles. Think about it carefully and think about what Zoran Djindjic said. I'm saying this absolutely friendly, for who knows which time, but think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2606	Thank you very much. Here you are, People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2607	In accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, I just want to draw attention to the fact that the RTS Programme would have to take one important thing into account in Serbia, which is that there is no regional frequency used by minority representatives, that in Serbia since it stopped working on the "Krlo Romeo" in Belgrade, we do not have adequate coverage or information in Roma, there is definitely no information in Belgrade, we only have in Vojvodina, the same public service that informs in minority languages. We have one show on RTS, imagine, on Sundays about six or seven o'clock in the morning and then the citizens of Serbia, members of the Roma national minority, can then be informed about all important issues, and it is about 500,000 citizens of this country, who, based on this information, should be adequately involved in the political system and then should be adequately selected by political parties, who swear to be their representatives and will indeed inform them about their work and based on the results of the work that will give them the opportunity to choose. In this regard, I propose to the representatives of the RTS Programme Council to launch a systematic action to address minority information issues on the second channel of RTS. We cannot allow the informing of minorities to be the sole right of some NGOs. It is not a question of minority participation in the political system and their right to inform NGOs, because NGOs inform about what they think they need, and we, as a Assembly, must as a state, do the same, in order to ensure the systematic ability of Serbian citizens who speak, among other things, not only in Serbian, but also in other languages, means in minority languages, to obtain the necessary information in their language. Otherwise, democracy has been questioned, because it is not only the right for you to go to vote and round someone's name, just as it is not the right for you, when you choose a citizen's advisor, to only vote here, but it is the right here in the Assembly, these 250 MPs and MPs and representatives of minority parties to participate in his election in the right way, not just through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because it is unconstitutional that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has an exclusive proposal, and Roma and other minorities who are here... (President: Time, Mr. Shane. )......................................................................................................... In an indirect way, they don't have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2608	Thank you. The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Committee's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The draft law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, which reads in Article 3 after Article 1 of Article 1, adds the position 2 which reads: "In the position of the 3rd word "seven years" is replaced by the words "four years". "Otherwise, SRS MP Momir Markovic has already introduced this amendment, so I will only further explain it. As regards this member, the amendment of the SRS changes the length of the term of office of the trustee for information of public importance. A group of proposings retains a legal solution that would take the trustee's term, imagine, seven years, which is explained and justified by the words: "... in order not to change the law established the relationship between the length of the mandate and the number of elections." You are able to justify everything, including this absurd situation, because in this country, the government's mandate lasts four years, although you can find a hole in the law, the mandate of the MPs also takes four years, the RIK also takes four years, the presidents of the municipality have a four-year term, the council members of the local parliaments have a four-year term. However, you have extended the status untouchable to certain civil servants in the state administration for five years, but you now, for the trustee, with all due respect to the current trustee, are changing the law because of him and are probably planning to enlist one of your worthy independent mediators for seven years. The SRS suggests this amendment that the trustee's term lasts four years, as it is in line with democratic and some moral principles. But since this proposal was signed by DS MPs, whose foreign currency it is -- to which it is moral, to go to church, then we know that these principles and these MPs themselves will adhere. The explanation given by the applicant is so understandable that at least a dozen legal conclusions can be drawn from it. It all comes down to the following -- yes, but it doesn't, it does, and if it doesn't, it will eventually be interpreted as a legal delusion, if there are any problems. It is obvious that you are considering setting up a person who will take up this post for seven years, and those who will indirectly take care of the interests of those who voted for him. In this way, this trustee can cover even two mandates of the Radical Government in seven years. How? This government will probably fall by the New Year's Eve. The next one's radical for four more years, then another one. For four years, however, normal democratic fluids are for the duration of one term. You could have suggested nine years, you could have offered 15 years, you could've given him a life term, like he was a bishop, just to be satisfied with you from the DS. The duration of a term of office, even seven years, is nothing weird, above all for DS. They behave like that everywhere, even at the bar. I'll give you an example of Paracino, where the Democratic Party rules, with another four or five parties and a party. Can you, ladies and gentlemen, imagine, for example. that the Republic Election Commission, which was elected when the government of Zoran Djindjic, in 2001, still has a mandate in January. You can't imagine and it's just impossible. But in Paracino, with the Democrats, anything can. The Assembly of the Municipality, which was elected on 24 September 2000, chose the Municipal Election Commission, in 2003 replaced two or three members and, believe it or not, the Municipal Election Commission exists to this day. Worse still, the president of the Municipal Election Commission was a committee member of the ruling coalition, which is directly contrary to all the legislation that regulates the electoral process. As we know, the new local elections were held in almost all municipalities in September 2004, new councils were elected, party composition was changed in local parliaments, and thus a new municipal election commission was to be selected, with professional representation and committee groups. Now imagine the Municipal Election Commission and this year 2007, in which the people elected by the members of the JUL, the Civil Union of Serbia, the Group of Citizens, etc. The Serbian Radical Party won ten parliamentary mandates in Paracino in 2004, but we do not have any seats in the Municipal Election Commission, however, there is no Democratic Party of Serbia, but that should be explained by the Democratic Party. The worst part is that the president of the municipal assembly, otherwise a member of the Democratic Party, said the following and said it doesn't matter, because they still have a mandate. The next such logic, let's say, the government of Zoran Zivkovic could not and did not have to fall in January after the new parliamentary elections. The government could have ruled Zoran Zivkovic by March 2005, Vojislav Kostunica could have extended the government's work, although he extended it by March 2008, and that only speaks in general about the Democratic Party and how they rule. Now, Mrs. Kolundzija, you, as a proposing and head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, note this democratic disgrace that the entire political public in Pomoravlje is talking about. Warn them not to do anything like that anymore, if you say you're Democrats yourself. You know for a fact that in Paracina, you are greatly defeated, despite the great financial and logistics support of the local board and the maximum abuse of local means of information. Obviously, you don't like the current trustee, he won't listen, and he won't cooperate. So you'll try to foster someone, play the trustee for how much he works, and for that, he'll have a comfortable backdrop of seven years. In the end, I would tell Serbian citizens to ask themselves why the president of the Republic of Serbia did not publicly condemn George Bush's statements that Kosovo and Metohija would be independent, which he gave in Tirana and Sofia. This, respected citizens, tells you everything about what kind of character we are for people who occupy important state functions. The moment someone broke Darko Rundek's nose, at the same time Boris Tadic found it appropriate to come and drink coffee with Rundek, and Kosovo and Metohija seemed to be the ninth hole on the track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2610	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Jovan Damjanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't mean to answer, but I'm reporting to Article 226, where every MP should be informed and have his own explanation. A little while ago, MP Srdjan Shine spoke about media and Roma television. I believe that in democratic states, as is our democratic state, and as its citizen, I find my country democratic. Under the Constitution and under the law of the Republic of Serbia, national minorities are entitled to their education, culture, tradition and have the right to inform. However, I received a solution from the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information that I could open Roma television, which first opened in our country, and that TV was working and it was not party television, it was the Roma television that worked. And we all know that today the Roma group in this Serbia is the most uneducated and lives at the lowest level of life in all areas of this society. I thought that television would make a big contribution to the Roma community about education, about information, about children's programs, about culture, tradition and everything else that affirms our country. However, we had two TVs in Serbia. My TV's down, one's off. I have nothing left behind, I want them to be Roma television and there to be Roma information, but I'm asking this country and its representatives, how can double standards, if we have the Constitution and the law in this country to apply. If the Broadcasting Agency has come up with a solution to shut down television, I've turned off television and I felt that I should respect institutions as a citizen. But I didn't make a rally, I didn't make a demonstration, and I respected the Constitution and the law of this country. The other TV survived, I didn't have the money to call anyone to give, to bribe me to stay on TV. The other TV stayed. I wonder now, how one television can be shut down under the Constitution and the law, and the other one can survive, although I have nothing against it. Why are double standards being implemented? The political parties in this Serbia, in our country, were all on my TV when elections were held, and in the Serbian government when elections were held, in the City Assembly, and Bogdanovic, and Batic and all other political parties, without any compensation. But they gave me a label, please, which is unworthy of a democratic society, that it's a nationalist, chauvinistic television, that it's a radical television, even though the radicals were at least on that television. It's what they say, organizations that work to break up the unity of this people, these are NGOs that are working to destroy all that. What am I supposed to wait for? You are talking about national minorities, I will suggest that the Serbian Radical Party is not called only the Serbian Radical Party, let the Serbian Radical Party remain and become a party of the national minorities of Serbia. I should wait now when the Serbian Radical Party comes to power to grant us Roma television. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2612	Please, you can change the name of the party at the Central Homeland Authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2613	I'm done. This is terrible when you discriminate over 800,000 Roma in this country when they have their own information show and information TV. Please, we're talking about democracy. I appeal and, please, you're all talking about Europe, I'm the vice president of the World Organisation of Roma, the world's largest body, I haven't reported to any European institution and ombudsmans of Europe for the protection of human rights. If she doesn't please me, I'll ask the highest authorities in this country to talk to me, if she doesn't please the Roma people what belongs to him, I know where I'm going to turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2614	Following the amendment, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that you should accept this amendment because practice has shown that it is an unsustainable term of seven years in a country where the presidency is five years, the mandate of Members of Parliament for four years, and that there are some functions that depend on the ruling majority that you will extend to the new mandate of the Republic Assembly. I think it's absolutely unacceptable. Here, let's talk theoretically. You choose Albianic as trustee for information, because he can do it around the corner. The seven-year term, over four years, we have elections for the Serbian Parliament, a new majority is created, its party will not enter parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2616	Mr. Nikolic, you haven't taken the best example.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2617	I think I took the best example and if it wasn't a theory anymore, this would happen for sure. Now you've been through the needle ears, because you've shorted a lot of money while your party's president was the finance minister, so you've had a lot of money for the campaign, so you've had enough of both God and the people. I'll ask you about the next campaign if you'll have any money. Unless, of the privatisation of NIS and Elektroprivreda, you take back the part for television videos. That's all you care about. But anyone who suffers Albianic in the next term, in which his party will not represent at all any factor in Serbia. How can you not think about that? We thought we'd suggest that every assembly of Parliament chooses a new trustee. As the Constitution says, a new assembly of the Assembly elects a governor, I hear they're blackmailing you, too, to extend it to a term of seven years. Well, you're not going to, you're not that crazy. It is unacceptable that someone extends his mandate to the next term of the National Assembly. This is what the DSS did, dragged through the State Administration Act, and even some officials now for five years, turn-turn, when you take over the power to keep their officials, to spy on you, to sabotage you, to put clips in your wheels, to challenge Serbian citizens. How, for example, will the Radical Government cooperate with this trustee from G17 plus, how? Not at all. And who's gonna give him some information? Just let him talk to me, I'll say, run away, Miccio, you're not a trustee to me. You were chosen by the others. Don't play games. If you really think it's worth something, and I can see from Šabić that it means nothing to you, because there is no more media to whom he has not spoken and regretted all the authorities possible in Serbia, that there is no free access to information at all, that none of his letters represent anything, means anything. He comes to him as Boris Tadic's National Office. Write, let's get Ali more army, just write. There's a secretary packing it somewhere. So the information trustee is elected in the National Assembly's assembly. A new assembly of the National Assembly, after four years, chooses a new trustee. Or do you think that this man, Albianic, might have stayed, but let's say a reasonable man, who has the morals of a political one, could he remain, when power is changed, in a function elected by the National Assembly? He can't. Do not take away the right of the National Assembly to choose a trustee. By this law, you say one conquistador can choose the trustee, the next can't. You are contesting the right of the MPs to choose also the trustees, and I think some other functions, as long as the mandate is longer than the mandate of the MPs. I repeat, if the term of office of the President of the Republic is five years, what is the mandate of a state official of seven years?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2618	Is anyone else answering about the amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2619	With this amendment, we wanted to draw your attention to the illogicalities that exist in this bill, and also to this person you called the deputy trustee. For him, you predicted his term would be seven years. And you predicted for him that he only met the conditions for working in the state authorities. So he's not even a pale copy of the trustees, not in school, not in work experience, not in the profession. I don't know if you missed that. I don't find that surprising, since sitting in parliamentary benches for MPs of the Democratic Party is a really big torture. I know it's a big torture. I know, in 2003, usually at five and fifteen, they don't even listen to their ministers from fatigue, they're not used to sitting in the National Assembly, arguing. For them is all torture that deprives their absolute freedom to be in places where funds exist, places where there is a great influence and places where there is a possibility of manipulation. This change of laws is a simple manipulation. Since 2001, we have referred to everything that the democratic bloc has suggested as an epochal democratic discovery in Serbia's premises and the reimating of what is a democratic standard in developed Western Europe, and we have experienced its tragic appearance as the most ordinary farce. Here we go in a row. By some chance, they sent us that Bozidar Djelic, the great finance expert. He said everything has to be transparent, it has to be known how public funds are being spent, and we haven't had a final account since he got here. No final account was adopted in the National Assembly. It must not be for the democratic authority to file the final bill, to see what it was like with the funds when it was spent. What the democratic authority did first was that criminal charges were filed against representatives of the previous government and here, for seven years these proceedings are not moving, the first evidence of a major planetary manipulation of the democratic bloc, regardless of how this fluid is changing, whether there are 18, two, three or five, with or without government organisations. The other kind of manipulation of the democratic bloc is that they are state-of-the-art. They also destroyed two states, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. They are not similar to a multi-party system because in a multi-party system their manipulations come to a full extent, they become naked and then, of course, it is torture rights when the Democrats have to sit in the National Assembly. It's burdening him. Democrats don't go to a duel, to face opinions. No, they experience politics, first of all, as a material and a stable interest. So from the first letter of their party's name they're making a kind of fetish, I'm trying to show what it looks like in practice, it's not a fetish, it's something bad, ugly, extremely ugly and devastating for the people and for the state. To get back to the trustee. You see, in this absolute freedom of public information, we have received the Public Information Act, which was defended here in the Assembly by Mr. Zarko Korac, he is now missing, but this law is known for having all the sponsors from abroad made major objections to this law, to the appearance of this law. And they fooled them even. In order to in some way guarantee what the Constitution says as a guaranteed right, it is the right to inform citizens, then they realized they were forming a special state body of trustees. When you look at his authority, what he can do, as a special protector of citizens for the field of intelligence and information in one part, you can see that he can't really do anything. It all depends on you, but they are Democrats with this bill to legislate to respect democratic standards and then, as a rule, come some like Van der Linden, who read one of his visions of democracy, and I call on here who are members of the delegation of the Republic of Serbia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to take his stenogram, not Albianic but the president of the Assembly and this foreign minister, were with him for two days, only to take a stenogram of his speeches in Serbia for the two days and to contribute to the Council of Europe to represent and represent a man who knows neither what democracy, nor human rights, nor the rule of law. Please don't tell me about Van der Linden and the Council of Europe as such a significant institution, when, for example, in Belgrade, these people can be seen not to be different from the DS. Pure manipulators. So, the citizen trustee exists as one media cover. We've reportedly covered one area with the law. Does that work? It doesn't work. Why isn't it working? That's not what the government wants. The government doesn't want to file final accounts, it doesn't want the government to have a Constitutional Court, it doesn't want power; this government doesn't want anything from government functions to perform, it just wants their outstretched individuals to be on significant functions, to be rich in person, and if possible, as far as they're concerned, they sell the state for a higher price and destroy all our national interests. There, it's a democratic block. I will try several more times in the day to deepen this topic a little bit to get in better, to draw your attention to a highly expressed torture suffered by Democrats in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2620	On the occasion of the amendments, MP Vesna Pesic, and then MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2621	I would like to say that the mandates of such officials really last longer than the Parliament's mandate, because there is one tendency today in the modern world that executive power is increasingly debrasing certain functions, which must be fully independent of politics and political parties. So it would be a lot worse if we didn't adopt this trend that certain regulatory functions, let's say, I'll say just some, for example, when it comes to the anti-monopoly commission, then it's for example. About the Republican Broadcasting Agency, unfortunately, that's not how it turned out. Then, when it comes to the state administration, in modern countries, if you look at those who have managed to develop and if you look at an Irish case, it is crucial to fully professionalise the state administration. That means when there's a change of government that you can have a minister and two assistants, and the other officials are experts. That's why it's stupid to say the minister has to be an expert. Well, he doesn't have to. Some areas he may be able to do, but he doesn't have to. Because it's a professional administration. If we run the party every time and make a practical party state, just to mention when it comes to the governor, it is measured even in some successful countries in transition and it can be seen that about eight years is the duration of the governor's term. I'll give you an example, 20 years old, the head of the Federal Reserve in America, Grispen, passed from Reagan until he was 92 years old, then he just left. Because these are functions where absolute political power shouldn't have any influence. So, when it comes to the governor, unfortunately it was with us, that as any party comes, which most, it changes the governor. What do we need a party personality for, please, for the trustee for information? Why do we need a political figure to protect the rights of citizens? These should be individuals who are completely neutral political and who do their job according to the law. That's the same thing, Mr. Nikolic, as if you'd say that every single person who comes has to choose their judges. And there's this tendency. You can tell by that. When you look at the criticism of the Venice Commission of the new constitution, it has put the largest number of objections there, because it has shown that the Parliament's excessive influence is in judicial power. So not every time he comes to choose his trustees, his administration. Well, it's a society that can't move forward. In the last term, I'm just going to give you an example. Look what was done at the finance ministry. It's indescribable. I'll give you my research that I made you read and see what it looked like. I've analyzed two ministries, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance. Please, there is no service that has to be more neutral than tax service, tax administration. Velimir Ilic was completely set up, customs, money laundering, gambling, everything goes on the party line. Even the bosses at the bar, everyone was elected to party meetings and set up for customs and tax administration. What does that look like? We have to say that there are administrations, and at the Foreign Ministry, everywhere we strive to be as professional as possible, and that's the ideal, not that any change in government, and after that election everything changes. How are we going to make a solid state? How will the state work if we change? I ask you to really establish that, when it comes to these new electoral functions, when we choose them, it doesn't matter who the majority is, we need to agree on these personalities to work in the interests of all citizens, and they shouldn't be party figures.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2622	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2623	Mrs. Pesic, this is a beautiful fairy tale. Where were you on October 5th when you broke up 200,000-300,000 employees, when you were disturbed by political employment, and you didn't think about professionalism? Where were you when the most beautiful birds in Mexico sang to you and smelled the flowers? Were you an ambassador as an expert chamber or as a party chamber? As a party, that's the point. Yes, it's ideal for a society where political membership won't determine the place where the most professional people will work. Are we such a country? I'm saying we didn't. This composition will elect political people to the post. If you prove to me that this assembly meeting will not elect politicians at the Foreign Ministry, that it will not choose as governor of politics, that it will not choose a politician as a trustee, let me trust you, so that we can go to other mandates. But that's not true. Who's the foreign minister? An expert, a career diplomat? No, but the carrier of Boris Tadic's purse, as General Perisicov came in with a fossil that brought him a purse, so Boris Tadic goes after him and Vuk Jeremic. He's the foreign minister today. Isn't he ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2624	Don't say that, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2625	Aren't we ashamed when he sits across from Ivanov as foreign minister? When he sits across from a diplomat who knows what diplomacy is. Don't, Mrs. Pesic, participate in this until the end, in this creation of a party state to the end. You don't mind when DOS is one game. You're not criticizing it. You'd only criticise the situation when radicals win 50 percent, so they form their own power. Then it would be a party state. And then Strasbourg would jump on us, and Brussels, and you'd have it in your research already prepared. I believe you've already done research on how the radical government works, just to print it when we get to power. But this is a country where you committed political persecution seven years ago. You've gone worse than Hitler. You've seen what people do, not who they are, and how well they do. You were disturbed by anyone who wasn't at DOS, he didn't deserve to live. Your cry that you did not perform October 6th is now coming true, you are today conducting October 6th and that is quite clear. You can see how this power is going. So, Mrs. Pesic, I accept that you can discuss this, but turn around a little bit behind you and say yes, we were wrong when we were doing this, when we were doing this, when we were doing this. We should create a society where there will be no such mistakes. If you keep telling us this is a transition society, then don't think of it as a normal society. Society in transition is not a normal society. In a transition society, one can't perform a function for seven years, no government can put together four years of mandate, if it's a normal government and if it runs a country through transition, so it carries out painful cuts, so it makes difficult decisions, so the people don't like it, and it comes out to the people and says, "Let's somebody else take this burden." Have you heard one of the politicians since 2001 say, "Let's get someone else to take the burden." No, they say -- it's hard for us to do this, but we don't give it for a living, we're able to do anything, but we don't give the ministerial armchairs for a living head. The people, it is thought, will easily forget what thieves have ruled Serbia and how much they have made us sick. So I could agree with you, but you're talking about ideals, which you yourself are not ready to achieve in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2626	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Pesic, and then we have more announcements in the Rules of Procedure. Please be patient, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2627	First, transition is not an abnormal process, but it is primarily that state and social property goes into private and also that certain institution building is passed. So what I'm talking about right now is part of the transition to break up with it once, and once, Mr. Nikolic, we have to stop. Everything that's been bad in the past, now we're going to the first period of the '90s, then the second period. I'm just saying that we don't need the Assembly to choose these officials, not the governor, so let the government choose them. If they are part of the political government, let the government choose them. What we're going to do is we're going to bother and be elected by the Parliament. So the whole idea that we choose these officials is that they are politically independent, such as the Assembly, for example, chooses the Committee for Conflict of Interest, the prevention of conflicts of interest and a series of these institutions. Otherwise, she could have done a nice government at the session, we don't have to waste our time, and she should also choose the Constitutional Court, let her choose the Government, if we're going to move on like that. So, I can only allow, from your discussion that I've heard so far, whether it could be five or seven years, because these functions are deliberately not selected for four years, when the ruling majority comes, so that it doesn't coincide with party rule. So if it's seven a lot, then it could be five. So it just doesn't match and it doesn't match. When do we start? Let's get started sometime. We can all do some kind of self-critic thing around here that we've been doing so far. If we're choosing our first public defender now, let's say, a state auditor, so what kind of state auditor is it if it's going to be elected by the assembly majority every time, so it's going to work for the radicals, so it's going to work for these or those. What kind of state auditor is that? He must be absolutely independent and we must control him. If we don't do that, we haven't achieved anything. Then I suggest that it be removed from the agenda and we didn't need it in the Constitutional Law, let the parties continue to choose the auditors, and the protectors, and the trustees; so that doesn't make any sense. This discussion of yours, to pre-warn some future rule of yours, you know what, so you don't need that kind of cheap party propaganda either. Please take it seriously, otherwise we don't even have to choose these people, let them be chosen by the parties and let them be elected by the Government, and we don't have to waste any time at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2628	Replica, MP of the people Tomislav Nikolic, but the Rules of Procedure, Branimir Djokić reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2629	I'm just saying we should start over. If today this party that is in power chooses the trustee, no, it is a party in power, it chooses most of the votes, we will be against it. Who asks us when we don't have 126 votes. This party will choose its trustee or maybe ask us who the trustee is. Let's do it like that, let's let the opposition propose a trustee, and pick him out most. Where do you live, Mrs. Pesic? And do you even live? In this Serbia. Please don't. It's like you're asleep, so someone wakes you up, and you say, "I have ideals drawn in books." In this Serbia, if today the DOS elects a trustee, it is a party man, it is a party state. Don't accuse me of making a party state, I repeat, appreciate us when we're in power, but now you appreciate those who are in power now, they'll offer you a trustee. What do you think? It's gonna be a non-partisan personality. It's gonna be from the LDP. It's not true. It's gonna be theirs. It's gonna be theirs. It's gonna be theirs. What are we gonna be able to do? To ask the trustees to seek the protection of constitutionality and legality. From who? You didn't come out for a pay phone to ask them where the Constitutional Court is, what's most important, which is basic. It's not a normal state, you've been creating it for seven years, you're doing it more and more crazy, you're working all the time. Did you believe, as an idealist, in 2000, on October 5th, that in 2007, we will not have a Constitutional Court, and that there will be no change in the system of government at all, as the DOS did, and today the government. They are replaced by Tadic and Kostunica in functions, Dinkic and Vela Ilic in functions. Who else is out? Just you. You weren't interested. You could have stayed here. You've been given a warrant to be in the opposition for a while. I understand that, I've been reading it all, I've been in politics longer than you, Mrs. Pesic, you've been living longer than me. I've been in this policy longer than you. That's why I'm telling you, you have the same archaic towards DOS and radicals, we don't need a party state, we won't even create it. How can I tell you that we have 500,000 personnel to perform government functions? We don't, of course we don't, neither do you, and you're tearing them all apart, so you're asking if there's anyone, as they called Velju Ilic to ask him if there's anyone in the flag, here's Batic's witness. They asked, uh, we took the flag, if you had someone to run the flag. That's what happened. There's the flag now, like a dog on one leg, there's nothing on it. You created a party state, Mrs. Pesic, you took part in it. The fact that you ran away for a few years into flowers, and into bees, and in birds, that doesn't justify you, you're one of the ideologists of all this work. Everyone trusts you. The West is with you on a continuous and open bond. What you say to the West is Serbia and I understand it all. The West doesn't care what the people think, the West doesn't care what the radicals say, wesna Pesic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica, do whatever you want, you are important. The people don't want you, but you're important. One day the people will be forced to want you, when they pick up everything and leave only Belgrade, the people may want you, too. Not until then. Until then, I warn you, we are not in power, but there is much we can do, at least in this congregation. I warn you, you participate in the creation of an absolute party state, you bond as one party. Next election, which one of you from the coalition is counting on someone else to make a coalition? No one. You're doomed to yourself. You're one party, only you're changing functions by some different belongings. You're a European party in Serbia. You might as well say, we are a European party in Serbia, whatever Europe does to us, we are a European party. When they take our territory, we are a European party, because we do not give Kosovo, and we do not give the European Union. How will this be and how will a politician in Serbia who wants both Kosovo and the European Union fall apart? That remains to be seen, I hope in this assembly, better than on the street. Do not tell us anything about the party state, especially us who have never been in the Union of Communists, or in the SPS, unlike some of you who have written applications there, so they have not been received, and are sitting there in the bench now. So this is going to be a party state. If it's already a party state, then let each party choose its own officers. If you give DOS the right to choose the trustee most of the time here, give the SPS the right when it's in the majority to choose its trustee, give it the right and the radicals to choose their trustee. So, only DOS can choose its own, and when the government changes, it will inherit the ones the DOS left behind. What kind of cooperation is that going to be? I repeat, if that is normal, here, let the DOS declare that radicals propose a governor, since it is a non-party figure, that radicals propose judges of the Constitutional Court, a non-partisan personality, an information trustee, an Ombudsman or a protector of citizens, to propose radicals, as it is a non-partisan personality. In fact, these people would best control the government and you know it very well. When they do not depend on the congregation's majority, they are free to do their job, just looking at the Constitution and the laws. We'll keep criticizing this, and you'll defend it. I'm telling you, whatever the law is, when the government changes, let us change these laws at a session like this, and that term of seven years that's recorded in the law, when the radicals win, will be a four-year term. We will not burden you with our staffs. We're not asking you to. Change of government also means change of character.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2630	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2631	Mr. Nikolic, I think I've made myself clear. You're here to stand up for the party state. I think we should overcome the party state. We've had that experience before in the one-party system. Unfortunately, we now have a multi-party monopoly on the state and that's very bad. You've stood up for it. I think we should get past that. A way to overcome that, if we choose a man who is not four years old, but five years old, then he won't have to report to those who chose him, if he chooses most, but he can have a chance to be independent. So there's the main argument. What you're telling me is that I'm in an open relationship, and I'm not in an open relationship with anyone. I have to say that those who are very patriotic don't believe that any Serb or Serbian can have an opinion, but someone has to subfly it. I guess I can have one of my own opinions, or someone has to keep telling me what to think. How do you feel about people so bad? How do you think someone has to be on the phone, so Bush tells me directly what I'm gonna say today? Believe in our citizens a little more, that they are not in a relationship with anyone, but that they can have their own opinions expressed in the Assembly and can, without any force or phone, say that it is not good for Serbia to have an unprofessional administration and have a party state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2632	The People's Messenger Amjad Migati, then Rajko Đurić, and Vladan Batić, and Zarko Korac, and Branimir Djokić, reported according to the Rules of Procedure. Is the problem order in the SRS? First for the word Amjad Migati, then Rajko Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2633	Mr. Chairman, it's not the SRS that's the problem, but it's the problem with you, because you don't respect the Rules of Procedure, because you have to go in line with the Rules of Procedure. Isn't that right? Mrs. Vesna Pesic gave the wrong information - if the governor or president of the US Central Bank, who has served for 20 years, just so you know that he is not elected by Congress, or parliament of the United States, but is formally appointed by the United States, because he is elected by the large capital that is ruling in America. He's stronger than the president, and that's why several bank governors changed the president of the Republic, remember. Thus, it was not an example that was true. But if you want to go to a nonpartisan state, let's make a deal. There are three types of functions that need to be separated. It has a political function, which comes to the election by new politicians who run the country; you have functions of public interest and you have administrative functions. The SRS has found solutions in various categories in its programme since 1990. According to various categories, administrative officials are progressing and no one can replace another until that category, or class, that corresponds to a specific function comes in. However, a function of public interest can be seven or 10 years, but if elected, as scheduled for the Constitution to change, two-thirds, then everyone accepts. But to be seven years, and only on the majority system, as well as a political function, then you put it into political function. If you want to separate him, let him be two-thirds elected and then we wouldn't be able to have an objection to that. But if the majority, then it cannot be more than political functions -- at four years of age, or as much as there is a government and parliament in the same system.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2634	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Djuric, and then MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2635	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the impression that we have touched an extremely important issue, and my view, as I say, is between what Mr. Nikolic and Mrs. Vesna Pesic have shown. I'll tell you why it's like that right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2636	Mr. Djuric, we'll talk about the impressions later, first you say which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2637	It's about the dignity of the assembly, but I'll talk about it later, Mr. Albianic. Please kindly, we've had a chance to talk, I know you're a mathematician by profession, it's very dangerous for mathematicians to treat people as a theorem. In the future, I ask you kindly not to do so, and I will add, you may have read the book "Government 2" Goodness Cosic, who said, "Man is not worthy of respect if the government makes him worse than he is". So now let me get to this thing. What's the point of the problem? The essence of the problem, and here I fully agree with Mr. Nikolic, because with us unfortunately, the parties are companies and someone, even best-cased, put in the mouth of the late Zoran Djindjic, not knowing that Max Weber had said that long ago, just criticising such a practice. Of course, if we don't get past that situation, then we're inevitably the party state, regardless of whether we have countless parties, whether we have coalitions, etc. So, it's inevitable, under one, that we have professional people for the places that we're talking about. I absolutely advocate that it be, first of all, a competent person. By the way, colleagues of radicals talked about it, the situation in the media, the ladies and gentlemen, is extremely serious and disturbing. This calls for an imminent debate in the congregation. It's not about individuals, to be clear, it's just the tip of the iceberg. I've worked for 25 years in Politics, and I'm obliged to pass on to the public and this respected home what's going on in Politics. It's a leaf that's so destroyed. I come from Tanjug, where my colleagues work for 18 hours, and they have barely enough to survive, etc. I'm saying this by the way. So, I advocate that this person chosen, she, de facto, agrees with Mrs Pesic, may be seven years old, but de jure is right, Mr Nikolic, if she remains the condition she is, for whom will that personality have significance? She won't be, unfortunately, respected. Therefore, it is necessary to think this through. And I, since I have a friend here who's a stranger, was recently in Leskovac and my compatriots Roma say -- do you know that there was a first Roma-Chinese war in Leskovac. Look, we have a Chinese man, my dears, in Serbia nobody cares about, there are other foreigners. In many Western European countries, there are ombudsmen or people in power responsible for foreigners. I think it is also an imperative need to establish itself in our country as soon as possible. Once again, I appeal to Mr. Dulic, that soon we have a broad, serious discussion about the media, because without the public we cannot achieve democracy, and, of course, I have to join Mr. Shane's opinion, I've had the opportunity to talk about it, it's about national minorities that are completely neglected in the current media system. I didn't joke about saying - animal lovers, pets, have daily space in the morning diary for up to five minutes. I told the gentlemen at RTS I'd be happy if national minorities had two and a half minutes a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2638	Thank you, Mr. Guric. You just didn't say if those words you quoted Dobroica Cosic refer to me? No, thank you. The People's Messenger Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then the People's Messenger Zarko Korac. Mr. Batic and the replica, and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2639	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course the people who are to be elected to these functions should be extra-party personalities. It's the ideal, it's the essence of democracy, it's supposed to be the product of a democratic society. Of course, in Serbia, unfortunately, it is not today. And here's a plastic example. If Mr. Sabic were a member of one of the ruling coalition's parties today and would have been said to have continued until the end of the term, as well as Jelasic. So if you're a member of some of the ruling coalition's parties you don't have to choose in parliament, if you're not changing you and choosing your own. This is an absolute party state. Today, with this ruling coalition, no porters, no housemasters, no restaurant workers can be unless they're from some of the parties of the ruling coalition. That's how it is today. I remind you that at the time of Zoran Djindjic in the first government of democratic Serbia, nine ministers were not members of either party. At the time, at least Serbia had a state prosecutor, he was not a member of any party. Serbia doesn't have a state prosecutor today, so if we were to be absolutely formalists, not a single act of deputy prosecutor, no prosecution proceedings are legal today, because there is a strict hierarchy and strict co-ordination there. Serbia has no state prosecutor for more than a year, so it cannot process all this that should be processed. Another contribution that this is a party state. This previous government had a Council to fight corruption. The people at the top of the council and Mrs. Barac, led by the council, are not members of any party. That advice can't do anything, the government did it, but it doesn't let him do anything and it's a paradox. So we have a party state like nowhere else in the world. Mr. Nikolic, I'd like to tell you something, not about this discussion, I think you're right about the party state, but the other day you were laminate over Avno. You said a group of young people made a state. In blood a group of young people made a state, and such a state is not honoring those who wanted a true democratic state, and I especially don't believe that it can be something that should be advocated by the SRS, because you know who was in power and what happened before AVNOJ. But, of course, that's your right, I'm just saying, there are roots and the foundations of the party state, the scariest in these areas. When I mentioned the prosecutor we don't have... Mr. Batic, I'm really sorry, you can't do that. So, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure, you've got three minutes, you've been talking for almost four minutes. I don't mind, call the Rules of Procedure again, but you can't just tell me it doesn't matter, I'll keep talking. First, since you're hanging out with the uninformed and you're uninformed. I answered the word when Mr Albianic chaired for you and I reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and for the replica, and Mr Albianic noted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2640	Now let me let you know. So, there's no problem, you've come forward after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've got three minutes, you've been talking for four minutes. Now I ask you to go to your seat, and report to the Rules of Procedure again or again, and then you'll get three minutes again and you'll move on. It's the way it can be. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Korać and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Željko Vasiljevic, then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Toma Nikolic, and then, now, let us agree, MP Gojko Radić goes by the Rules of Procedure, then the replica Tomislav Nikolic, then the replica Vladan Batic. There, that's the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2641	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, I'm advertising Article 103. This is a very important topic, but in principle, we should stick to, how-so, what the topic of the agenda is. But these amendments to the law and amendments -- the length of the term of office, really raises one big question about what kind of people we choose and how we choose functions that are of great social importance. It seems to me that practice has shown that in a law that is now changing, there are a few things missing to ensure it. The first of them is - enough to say - I'm not a member of the party. Example: one of these people, I won't tell him his name, he was a member of the party, and then when he was elected, he said - as of today I'm no longer a member of the party. It really doesn't mean anything. So, we need, say, to provide convincing evidence that at least a few years, five, ten, that man wasn't, not that we're punishing him for being once a party member, he wasn't a party member. And another thing, in some countries, democratically, to choose some functions requires a consensus between the parties of power and the opposition, and I cannot believe that in Serbia, regardless of the severity of political struggle, the relationship of the opposition and the authorities is such that one person cannot be found who would receive support from both sides. Do I make myself clear? So there is a world of situations that must reach some consensus in the congregation about such a person. I agree, by the way, with Mr. Nikolic that everything has become a party state. In other words, we cannot disguise here the fact that, depending on who's in power, people are being placed. The only difference now is that these people get one form of independent, impartial personalities, but they, de facto, were in parties until the moment they were elected. Vesna Pesic is also, of course, right, but in that second part where she says it's devastating for Serbia, because that means that all the personalities that are meant to protect the citizens, this is the public's protector. If he's a party man or a protector of the right to information of public importance, then people simply won't trust it. It's a matter of proposing a personality. It is not true that there are no such figures in Serbia, at least on these several functions, which will have the support of both opposition and coalition parties supporting power. Serbia is not the only country in the world that there is not at least some person who can get, at least for these functions, some consensus agreement. It wasn't even tried. I personally think it's wrong. There are respectable people, there are people who aren't party employees, there are people that the public has a good opinion on, and then it would be an interesting question if they weren't that kind of person elected in the Assembly what would make the public we finally answer to, or their constituents what they would tell us. We would express a lack of confidence in people who undoubtedly have a social reputation. For these functions, such as the right to information of public importance, for the protection of citizens, it should indeed go to individuals who can receive the support of a consensus, majority, but also opposition and party authorities in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2642	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by the People's Messenger Zeljko Vasiljevic and then by the People's Messenger Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to get involved in this debate more in principle. What's this about? We are really trying to introduce a new principle here to certain state functions by people who are not party personalities and who are professional. I suppose all MPs in this assembly support it as a principle. However, the abuses of this principle that are being announced at the moment and which we can assume will happen are also related to other functions, not only to the protection of citizens. I would like to point out that these days the assistant ministers will be appointed to some ministries. I would specifically like to tell you at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in the sector of martial law, as a principle, and in accordance with Article 25. The law on state administration, which has been withdrawn from the agenda, and now we are bringing that principle of choice of such people to those functions against the law. I would not go into it this time, because it would take us far away, but I would like to mention one principle that is truly devastating, which is that in this place today, politically very similar people and extremely unequivocal, with the tendency to place their mandate, under Article 25 of the 3rd position of the Minister, the Government for five years on a proposal from the Minister, according to a law establishing the position of civil servants. Unfortunately, these politically similar personalities will become civil servants. In particular, in this case, the DS is trying to place as assistant minister a man who performed the post from 2001 to 2004, and such a disastrous position of this population has left and abuses carried out within the framework of his function, abuse of his official position, that we representatives of the fighting-involved organisations had to ask for his replacement from Minister Lalovic. I can tell you that by an emergency procedure, within one day, that man has been removed from the post of assistant minister, because his numerous abuses have been identified at these functions. The second thing, the same man was subsequently tried to be appointed director of Belgrade's fighting board. At that time, certain people, certain DS executives, realized the extent of the damage both the Democratic Party and the authorities could do and therefore removed it from that function, or did not appoint it to the post. Today we have a situation that this man will again be appointed as assistant minister, with a tendency to become a civil servant and remain five years in that post, without any qualifications, without any moral value. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, I address you, you take great responsibility for yourself, putting on functions that belong to you by people who deserve nothing, professionally or morally, if you advocate the principle of such functions. That man's name is Mr. Miro Chavaliga. He remained remembered in martial law protection as a man who, in 144 years of long history of martial law protection, legal protection, was a man who proposed the worst law, even worse than the one of the 29th year olds, when a parable was written, "All these people will gild".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2644	Mr Vasiljevic, your time is up. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Gojko Radic, then a replica by Mr. MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2645	Members of Parliament, since you have no idea that you are discussing and talking in this Parliament about Kosovo, and everything that awaits us about Kosovo, I see that you do not have the will and that we will not have the opportunity to discuss it for much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2646	Mr. Radic, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2647	Here, you'll find out right away, just a moment. Something I'd like, what we can do, and that's Article 225, and since it concerns you, that your name and your function are mentioned here, I hope I get an answer from you right away, and you're familiar and you know it all. Since you're in favour and your first exposure here and your promises were in that direction that everything will be transparent and public, I hope it will be transparent for both my environment and your environment, where we come from. The SRS will set up at the first next session in Subotica, seeking a agenda item to discuss the robbery that took place in Subotica and will seek another point, whether they will be united or merged, about the debate to take powers and the right to sign, which we have given to the president of the municipality, so that they can have property as their grandfather. I hope that your party, since I hope your influence in your party is enormous, that you can do so with your influence to achieve, and say that here you promise to help us get the truth out of sight, given that you have also condemned through the press this kind of robbery, that it comes to the agenda in local self-government, not to refuse to discuss it at all. I expect from you and support in the local parliament at the next session, that your committee group will support and come up with a debate in the local parliament. I hope you stand up for this and I'd like an answer from you, as I ask, so I don't get an answer in writing. I hope that your word has the weight to give a satisfactory answer and that you will find yourself in the truth and values of what you stood for in your election as speaker of parliament, now we will see in the work of your promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2648	Thank you very much. Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic, and then MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2649	Mr. Batic got a little involved in radical ideology. I'll probably have to explain it a little bit. So our ideology is Chetnic. So Chetnic that in this last war, all Serbs over Drina called themselves Chetniks. Obviously, this ideology is dominant in the Serbian people. But I have no intention of dealing with people in the past that I would disagree with today, because I appreciate the time in which they made decisions, and I appreciate that they had a responsibility and who had the courage to stand up to them. For example, I think it is historically wrong for Milan Obrenovic to attack on the Slivnica of Bulgaria, so what now, to say that this man no longer deserves to have one street in Serbia. I don't appreciate that Nikola Pasic betrayed his party, testified falsely, fled to Bulgaria, so here are the monuments in Belgrade, Nikola Pasic. I don't appreciate communist ideology either, but I'm taking the time from 41 to 45. I never agreed with that when you started changing street names, so all the partisan killed in the war wiped out the streets. The Kragujevac people know that I had severe conflicts as a councilman when they abolished the names of the streets of children born on that street that died in 1942 or 1943. Someone's upset that the Germans killed him, so let's change the name of the street and give some American name. Everything has its own time. AVNOY was anti-fascist. What did the one who walked 500 kilometers under the fight to go to a meeting there and create a state? What did he know would happen in 1948? In the war, he decided to make a state, after all, the same as the king before. What's the difference? What would I do to lift the anti-fascist decree now? There's no more AVNOJ street because there's a new government. There is no Yugoslavia by the time the DOS came to power. I can't agree with that. If someone suggested DOS street and named it that street, then 20 years later, someone would say, "What do we care about that DOS?" Same with Zoran Djindjic Street. I didn't laminate. It irritated me that one street you change your name and name Zoran Djindjic. Why didn't you cut up the street in the meadow, bring gas, electricity, water, sewers, asphalt, phone and say this will be Zoran Djindjic Street. Here's who wants to live here. It's simple. It's for the best. You can do anything, but you're irritated to have someone change that street's name when the government changes. (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic) I'm finishing up, I'm sorry. You're doing it very roughly. At the same time, if there is a hero in another city, you stand up to it, lift all of Serbia to its feet. Not some Milankovic, who died fighting for Serbia, can have his own street. But when you decide someone can have a street, it has to be respected. No one can stand up to you anymore. There's a lot of courage here for a man to be a Serb. It can't be like that. I am not ashamed to tell you that AVNO is more valuable than Zoran Djindjic, more valuable to Serbia's history. If Zoran Djindjic had lived, if you had been driven by a revolutionary enthusiasm, if you'd had time after two or three shifts of power to rule again, you might have earned the street. But as much as Zoran Djindjic deserved you to have the street, so much was earned by Slobodan Milosevic to the Socialists. The first time they participate in power, you will probably have Slobodan Milosevic Street, perhaps even instead of Zoran Djindjic Street. You made it yourself. So whenever you're in power, think about what happens when you're in opposition. We're lucky we've been in the opposition too long. We won't be able to make any mistakes when we're in power. We have suffered too much from all of you, and from those whom we now defend and from those who attack us day and day. I think now the attitude is completely clear and completely clean. Anyone who wants a street like this or a street like that has to ask all the citizens of that street, at least the citizens of that street. And what about the poor mailmen, they've already gone crazy, you're changing who... Not to remind you, when you came to power that you were disturbed by the streets of Russian generals and Russian marshals. (President: Mr. Nikolic... Here, I'm sorry. Not to remind you that the streets of Marshall Tolbuhin, General Zdanova were not important to you, even though the Russians fought against Nazi Germany.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2650	Thank you. Replica, MP Vladan Batic. Then, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Željko Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2651	Mr. President, it would be correct if you had the same arches to all MPs. Mr. Nikolic began his sixth minute of speech, and you interrupted me in the fourth minute. I don't mind that. This is the way you hold a session of parliament, but I warn you that you still respect the equality of MPs. We talked about people who need to be elected to functions that provide for laws that comply with the Constitution and the need for them to be extra-party personalities. God forbid it is, but given the principle that has been declared by the ruling coalition, where absolutely every man, and in the most peripheral place, must be a member of some of the parties, I am not convinced it will be so. I mentioned that the first government of Zoran Djindjic had nine extra-party personalities. That's the ideal. Today, unfortunately, unimaginable. That the Attorney General and the President of the Supreme Court were extraordinary personalities. We don't have a state prosecutor today, and now he can't react properly because of various forms of the mafia. Here's a question. A tycoon from Serbia began running from Serbia the day before yesterday. Come on, that's interesting for journalists too, let's see how many tycoons are, except for the most important favorites of government today in Belgrade or Serbia. They all ran off in the white world. Some to Castro, to Chavez, with a mandatory visit, a ritual visit to Pablo Escobar's grave, because they made their capitals, empires the way he did it. Why are they passing by, and because we don't have a state prosecutor as an extra-party person? The most important people involved in the tobacco affair, people at the top of the former government, some of the most important tycoons of today's government, favorites of today's government. So when we mention the tobacco affair, then there's the story of "Japan Tobacco", then there's the story of "Fii," then there's the story of the main distributor "Insi Audi" from Limassol, and then there's the story of one of today's ministers, who's with them in the nearest relationship, and with tycoons, and with "Fi," and with "Japan Tobacco," and with this man from Cyprus. The name's very clear, just a picture to put in.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2652	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljko Vasiljevic and then MP Zoran Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2653	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dulic, I just want to remind you that three weeks ago I launched an initiative, I would not say that it is a parliamentary issue, but an initiative to correct the injustice committed against 6-7 thousand war veterans from southern Serbia and Kursumlia, Prokuplja, etc. Remember, that evening I asked you to arrange a meeting with the Ministers of Justice and Defence as soon as possible, as soon as possible, because this concerns their authority. I'm sure just because of the busyness you had in the previous period you didn't do it, so now I'm asking you to do it as soon as possible for a very simple reason, which is escalating the problem. People are gathering there, conducting demonstrations, putting pressure on the court, and we don't know what's going to happen. Their threats are that they will soon come to Belgrade because they are very dissatisfied with the fact that 400 people have received money in those judgments, and 6-7 thousand have not received them and even those judgments are now being rejected, which are completely identical. They wrote me a letter here and a petition, where there are over 500 signatures, to get rid of it immediately. In that letter, they wrote to me that their biggest problem is the President of the Court, Mr. Radisa Jovic, who abuses his office, with certain lawyers getting those rulings very easily for 30% of the commission. If I tell you that the verdicts are between 400 and 500 grand per one, then you can imagine how much abuse is and what's going on in that court. I also have to tell you that you can conclude from this what a disappointment this population is at the beginning of this government's rule. Mr. President, please, I will leave this letter on the table, the petition, that as soon as possible, and that means in the next few days, try to arrange a meeting with the Minister of Defense, the Minister of Justice and the representatives of these people, these persons who feel this country in a very bad way. People who were willing to sacrifice their lives for Serbia's defence in 99, did not ask if they had received a call or not, but responded and went voluntarily to defend it. Gentlemen, today we have a situation that is very similar to the period of 99, if Kosovo's defence occurs, I wonder who will defend this Kosovo today. Probably the same people who will be unhappy. So, Mr. President, once again, I ask you, on behalf of these people, to do as soon as possible what you promised me you would do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2654	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Despotovic, and then by amendment, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this assembly does not want to talk about Kosovo, I note that I come from the Raška area, where the rapture of the people of the Raška area, we can especially read in the latest and today's public media, that the arms of citizens, or extreme groups in the Raška area, is alarming. We don't have any information about these weapons, so I'd like to ask in Article 226, Mr. President, to inform the citizens of Serbia and the Raska area, what's happening in the Rasko area. I'm warning you, don't be too late. Then even the patron of the citizens won't help us. I ask the security structures and competent committees to inform the citizens of both Serbia and the Raske areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2656	Thank you. Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2657	Mr. President, the debate is under way on Amendment 3 which was tabled by MP Radisa Ilic and to return the matter to its beginning. It would be good if the argument offered by Mr Ilic, as well as the one offered by Mr Markovic under the previous amendment, was wrong. As far as I'm concerned, it'd be good. But the ruling majority helped both colleagues to make this argument precise. Because that previous interrupted session, which was called with these agenda points that had been tasked with making several laws in such a way as to end internally completed and final competitions in the ministries, to leave State Secretary and Assistant Ministers, remind you that this session was interrupted and I remind you that at the moment when all this was happening, the law was in force. So I'm talking about those five years, or the mandate that was assigned to ensure that this was not a party state. Now, the parties that exercise power should, normally, take responsibility for the exercise of power, among other things, to frame their best professional and political people to trust them with certain jobs. Because then their exposure is measurable. We can tell if they did the job right. So when this law was passed we spoke here and then that it would not be implemented in the way it was imagined. Because every party, when it comes to power by itself or when the government is in a coalition, unfortunately has this need that Vesna Pesic spoke of here, which I agree with on this issue, I read her text in the Republic on this subject more than three or four months ago. But we need to figure out what we really want to do here. Are we going to change the whole administration every time it comes to a shift of power or are we going to express and show trust to those people, experts, experts, whatever, who in some state institutions, primarily in independent regulatory bodies exercise power? Unfortunately, practice has shown that everything here is the opposite of what is prescribed by the norm. The more independent and regulatory bodies, unfortunately, the more self-will they are. When someone is independent and regulatory, that by definition means either that he is a self-sustainer or that he absolutely executes into life what the party heads tell him. Here, I beg you from the ruling parties to confess. You now have a problem establishing the so-called so-called. The co-ordination body on behalf of the Government should propose members and presidents of the boards of directors of public enterprises. You tripped in the first step. You can't choose this coordination body without having mutual disagreements about this. Please, your party bosses have authorized certain persons to take on behalf of the government in NIS, EPS, PTT, TELECOM, etc. First of all, you have no right to do that. Secondly, you didn't say anything in the political program, I read them all, I didn't read them in the election campaign, I listened to you all very carefully, that you would do it in such a way, but that you would do this in a way that would be done by the government and that they would choose the best people etc. It is one thing to say certain attitudes in the election campaign, and another to exercise power. Since this is about a law relating to a trustee for information of public importance, the idea was good, and I have to say in a political sense noble, that there is one man, or one body, institution, in fact, I apologize, which will provide for those citizens who for any reason cannot get the information that is very important to them, that some bureaucrats there do not dissuade them and that they do not lose a few months in this relationship. What happened? The last time I spoke here, Mr. Sabic, someone here challenged it, the truth is, that's what the law says, the moment we elected him, he said, I'm resigning as a member of the Social Democratic Party Executive Board, I think that's what that party was called and I'm leaving the party. He used a legal mechanism that worked at that time. Whether he's a member of a religious community or a member of a political party, he's the only one in his heart. When someone says that, I'm not a member of today, it doesn't mean anything. That means I'm a big fan and I'm a great fighter for that political option, I advocate that ideology and I fight for those political goals, etc. It's like this when we've written before in various bill proposals, a respectable personality is chosen. The reputation is undetectable. He who is respected for me may not be the other way around for one of you. So it would be important here to discuss what we really want. There is no danger from the National Assembly, nor from the MPs, I have spoken of it many times. Otherwise, in Serbia, there is one tendency that some others are more important and important than the MPs. The National Assembly can do anything, in accordance with the Constitution and with the Law and Rules of Procedure. So, until democracy gets to that level that it's possible that this works as planned here, so that one civil servant or trustee performs his office for five or seven years, and the term of office to the government or parliament lasts four, then let's define ourselves for this. One term of office, responsibility for the parliamentary majority, so that we can measure what their deputies are doing during one term. Otherwise, everything else doesn't make any sense. Otherwise, we keep going round and round. You said there'd also be no nepotism, this and that. Please, the President of the Republic has married the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, they are best men, ladies and gentlemen. It's nothing wrong with their private relationships, in the functioning of the state, it's very dangerous. That's not normal. Zdravko Ponoš is a pasture, for those who do not know these relations, Mr Tadic and Mr. Ponoš married two sisters. That's not normal. Please, let me finish. The foreign minister, by definition, appears once a day or once in two or three days on television. His engagement is reported by his wife at a public service, against which, by the way, I don't have anything bad to say, a woman does her job well, but it's not normal. For those of us who should be viewers who don't understand politics, it's a nasty message. So, one question is, what does anyone define in the election campaign, but the other question is how it works when someone exercises power? Therefore, no law will introduce political parties into a normal situation, that human policy and other issues adhere to elementary rules that apply in private life as well. While the campaign is going on, that's one thing, when the campaign is over and most of the government's government is forming and later supporting the government, then we have a completely different situation. Last time I said, if someone really had an idea, and with that previous law and now, to replace Rodoljub Šabić, they could have done it in some other way. He could have asked him, maybe he'd resign, I'm sure he would have done it. Now, you have a trustee, or we do, I'm talking about the amendment, Mr. Nikolic, I've been listening to you all for a few dozen minutes. It's important here that you be consistent with political views, otherwise it doesn't make any sense what we're doing. In the end, since there was one finding here that in this war all the fighters and sons of Chetniks and partisans, they called themselves Chetniks, I never did. So, as a partisans son and as a fighter, I never considered myself a Chetnik, but a fighter. I'm a partisan, I'm a partisan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2658	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2659	I know you've been listening to me, Mr. Baralic, but not carefully enough. I told all Serbian fighters through Drina and Danube, the children of Partisans and children of Chetniks in this war were called Chetniks. If you were a fighter, which I appreciate, then you know very well I'm telling the truth. In Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, all fighters called themselves Chetniks, did not call themselves partisan.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2660	Is there any other parliamentary group on the amendment that wants to speak? No, I don't. ) Replica, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2661	Mr. Baralic called me by name and last name, so I have the right to go out for a pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, said Mr. Baralic was Mr. Sabic, taking over as a confidant, said I am resigning as a member of the municipal board and stepping out of the membership. Did any of the people's MPs, the National Assembly, give us those who chose him and prove that Mr. Sabic came out of the party? As I recall, his party fell apart, but that's a different story. I'm talking about these that you're proposing for seven years to be members of. How's he gonna prove they're out of the party? Will someone just signing to freeze their party membership stop respecting the party's ideology? Let's not go crazy. There's no outsider personality. After all, all intellectual sizes are in political parties, mostly in the Serbian Radical Party, but there are also some other parties. First of all, he can't be an outsider. Secondly, it can't be seven years, because you're pushing the next government that comes after the parliamentary election of the trustees for information and all those other personalities you're setting up under this or this next one, or those past laws. The mandate of these people can last as long as the mandate of the MPs, the mandate of ministers, the mandate of all who are elected in the parliamentary elections. Let's not pretend to be naive, so let's pretend to be out-of-the-way personalities. Look at the official messengers of Serbia. After 30 ministerial assistants, a few deputies. All these people have a far higher salary than the MP. Most of the time, there was tampering with the salaries of the MPs of the people. Look at the wages you've given them. Are these outside personalities, ladies and gentlemen? From which extra-party lines are you recruiting and who are the ministerial assistants? New parliamentary elections should now come, as God will give us this year. When the election comes for the president and for the local authorities, and you see that the will of the citizens has changed, you think your assistants and deputies, as outsiders, will remain in those functions? Well, he won't be able to. All these laws that you are adopting today will have to be reviewed as soon as a new radical rule is established in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2662	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Committee's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2663	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as a member of the Committee on Culture and Information, and besides other colleagues, Serbian radicals, on this parent committee, as you said, I was unable to state my position because I am not involved in the work of that committee, as well as in the work of ten other committees where the committee presidents from the same parties are from where the resolution ministers are from. And it is devastating for us that Vojislav Brajevic, the culture minister, is still from his Democratic Party and the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, it is pointless to talk about anything there. Since you had no sense for democracy and that the opposition should control you, and your ministers, Mr Nemanja Sarovic, because his amendment requires that this Article 5 be deleted, in fact he wanted to tell you, as she said yesterday and in the principle debate of Radeta, that you wanted to draw the character of Rodoljub Sabic. Because he was elected to the post of trustee two years ago, that's two years ago, right, if you look at all the daily papers today, even in that, Mrs. Kolundzija, where you said you were suffering a big torture from the opposition, because he's using his parliamentary rights and business rights, he's a candidate and he's got unanimous support from a certain part of the public, who suggests he'll be back on that post. Now this Article 5 was supposed to be used to tell Shabic nicely, if he's the one to choose, listen, it's been a while for you, you're going to choose for seven years, because that's what you imagined. You did not want to accept the previous amendment between colleagues Markovic and Ilic, to be four years old, which is normal, because it is impossible for one country, and we have been having this debate all morning, someone is talking about the party state, party candidates and non-partisan influence, when it is absolutely clear that he was a man who had a vice-presidential post, so he was the minister of local self-government, so he was in one party, so before that he had an internship in the Communist Party, in a one-party system. It's all nonsense that you've now remembered to put that member into law and then because of Shabic, because it's seven years old, you say, "You were and now if you're having that time running, what you've been doing -- you've done, when it's seven years, it's over, you can't choose that function again." It's pointless, although Mr Albianic was chairing at that point and he saw that, let's say, Mrs Pesic was right to add 4 + 4 that they were 8, it's mathematically correct, that she's thinking and saying in those replicas, I hope she learned something from Mr Nikolic, she says, well, if it is now, so when you radicals come, it changes, and she thinks she'll now be elected a trustee and it will take four years for this government, so when we come... It won't look like that at all. We will have extraordinary parliamentary elections before the deadline and long before you think so. If you had accepted our amendment, that one would have lasted four years and then we would have changed, as Mr. Markovic said, the law to be normally elected for four years. Now, you guys, this is amazing, I don't know if there's anything like this in any law in the world. You've painted a man exactly and you say you're doing it for him because he already has a period that he's spent. How did Shabic spend that time? First, a year after he was elected, he'd been crying and complaining that he had no office, no means to work, and after that, when he started working as something, and when he got that space, he didn't get any information. Who will give him information and what information does he seek? Here, we ask the question today, yesterday we launched it because yesterday the news came lightningly to Serbia, but you did not react because Milan Martic was sentenced to 35 years in The Hague tribunal. No state body has come forward on this issue and no one, except for Serbian radicals, has heard from this speaker. So it's pointless for you to change this law for one person, anytime and at any time. In this case, it's Shabic now, you'd think of doing it in some other law for another frame. The law must once apply to everything and be at least for a while, it's not immutable, but if you're a normal government and a government that works well, and you're not, like you haven't done in the past seven years, then you haven't been able and you're not now to make laws that will inherit those who will replace you, and that's what we Serbian radicals are, and we don't have to change anything. This way we're going to have to change everything, and in this one, and in 500 and some of the laws that you've passed seven years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2664	Following the amendment, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2665	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, with everything we've said about the way you've imagined this trustee, about the way he's done his job so far, about the way you've been working with him, keeping him from doing his job, trying to find a meaning between the Committee on Culture and Information, which you've presented as the parent board for this law, and the functions of the trustee for information of public importance. Namely, in Article 64. The Rules of Procedure have been defined by the Committee on Culture and Information, which discusses the draft laws, second regulations and general acts and other issues in the fields of culture and public information. This public information in the Constitution is regulated by Article 50(1), which says - everyone is free to, without approval, by law, establish newspapers and other means of public notification. Therefore, the Committee on Culture and Information should monitor whether that obligation under Article 50, relating to other means of public information or public information, and the information trustee is of public importance regulated by Article 51. The Constitution, in the Chapter of the Law on Notification, which states that everyone has the right to access data owned by state authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority under the law and has the right to be notified in full, complete and timely terms of matters of public importance. What does the Committee on Culture and Public Information now have to do with the right of citizens to control whether public authorities and organisations have the information they own and to which they have the right to access. We should have a Committee on State Administration and Local Self-Government, so let's say that the Committee on State Administration would be the parent board for the trustee for information. What does Minister Voja Brajovic now have to do with him, who is accompanied by the Committee on Culture and Information, and the Information Commissioner? What kind of relationship is there now? You don't have the opinion of the parent board. I don't know if you've found which board is parenting, but this one certainly isn't. The Committee on Culture and Information is not responsible for giving its opinion on the Law on the Trustee of Information of public importance. He deals with public media, means of public intelligence, deals with culture, but does not deal with data held by state authorities and which should be made available to a citizen who receives them through the information trustee. So without the board's opinion, you get into this business. That's why the speed, which you tried to show after our remarks to hold sessions that are not in accordance with the Constitutional Law, is very devastating for you. I ask that you no longer humiliate the Members of the People so that they may be the legislators of these laws. Since you are part of the ruling majority, let the government propose such bad laws to you. Then you know which minister made you. This is how you propose, my dear gentlemen, you have no idea what you're proposing. You don't know anything about this. You don't live that life. You don't know what an informer is. You think, well, it's Shabic, we should pick him out. The fact that two years of complaining about that same authority as there's no information, it's just a sign to me that he's going to keep complaining, and that you're going to continue treating him like a clerk. The fact that you stated here that he resigned when he was elected Commissioner for Information, he speaks of him as a bad man. It's a poor party member who says I'm no longer a member of the party to be some kind of official. That means there's no ideology in it at all. That means he's not living a party life, but he's waiting for a moment when he'll come on a big salary and say hello to the party, hello to all of you who are responsible for my development, for my career, for my education, my reputation, for my popularity. So don't act like a nonpartisan where it can't be faked. This man is a party man. Don't make him step on his political party. It's easy with these little parties. Now imagine someone from the top of the DS you're going to make him say, as of today, I'm no longer a member of the DS, I'm going to be a trustee of information, and I'm going to laugh at his sheets. To say if that's why you were in the DS, and we thought you wanted Serbian citizens well, which can be achieved through politics, the ideologies of the DS. Therefore, the bill is not good, the Assembly did not declare it in the previous procedure. This committee, which should watch us perform theatres, cinemas, and newspapers, is not the committee that should watch the information commissioner work, or I do not understand myself in the congregation work at all. She's also a poor congregation that taught me for 15 years, and I couldn't learn anything. I think I've learned and I should teach you. That's why you should withdraw this bill. To choose the trustee by the law that exists. Get the laws in line with the Constitution. Well, your law isn't exactly in line with what life takes place on the street, so these are the ones that are the most important. The most important thing for us is the choice of these people, not the harmonisation of these laws with the constitution. I'd like you to present this to us. Imagine, now you've kept us here in an emergency session to change the law, and then you'll call us back to choose the trustee. It would be ideal for us, as we change the law, to know who that candidate of yours is. This is how you tell us to torture you because we're going to discuss the same matter twice. I'm telling you, we're gonna have a debate, and it's gonna be a great treat if the old trustee is new. Then we'll really have something to quote you from his complaints and from various complaints he wrote to almost all the organisations in Europe, who should worry about his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2666	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and People's Parliaments, I'm reporting to advertise the violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right to request a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, and in this case I request an explanation from the chairman. It is about Minister Mr Ilic, and I am asking the question actually of the chairman, how it is possible that the minister of the magistrate is publicly speaking the truth, promising the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly that he will be presented with a contract on the construction of the Horgos-Požega highway, and although he has made it public, he did not do so today. When we talk about the availability of information of public importance, it is very important to ask how the minister can hide such a document. Furthermore, once the responsibility for a publicly spoken word has begun in Serbia and further, as long as Minister Ilic behaves as if he had built that highway out of his money, so that he has the right to take 450m euros away from the citizens of Vojvodina. Because of the contract, the citizens of Vojvodina will lose 90,000 jobs over the next 20 years. No one has the right to do that, so he was Mr. Ilic. The second question I would like to ask is the same insult that Minister Ilic has at the expense of his first row coalition partners, and secondly, both the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Executive Council of Vojvodina. Many citizens were witnesses yesterday that Mr Ilic is talking about how the president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina has a boyfriend and that the president of the Republic of Serbia is Sek Persa.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2668	Please don't convince us in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2669	All right. I just want to say what's said. This is not only an incorrect master's behaviour, but we've been used to it before, we've had opportunities to watch him kick the press and talk about how it's okay to steal and keep on, but this is how we didn't have a chance to break the Constitution. Mr. Chairman, can I please finish my presentation somehow?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2670	May I have your attention, please, to finish the presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2671	Just to allow me an atmosphere where I can finish my exposure. Thank you. Furthermore, we've had the opportunity of a magistrate to see in different similar situations how he kicks the press, how he talks about how it's okay to steal, but in a way that violates the Constitution, we haven't had a chance yet. That's why I'm asking the chairman to explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2672	As for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will forward your question to Mr. Ilic under Rule 226. We hope that according to the vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this Horgos-Požega road will soon be built, I happen to be from Požega. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. People's MP Mrvos, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2673	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try to talk to my colleague Jerkov instead of the chairman or Mr. Master Minister Velimir Ilic. I'm not going to start my exposure as a respected colleague of Baralic in those words - my dear, because after that I would suffer criticism probably from the Ivica Dacic or some other colleagues...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2674	Mr. Mr. Mrvos, I ask you with respect that we address all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2675	No, I said I wouldn't. I'll try to answer it briefly. It's nice when a man shows a certain interest, so when Mr. Kostresh shows interest in a concession contract, he assigns concessions to Horgos-Požega. It's awkward when a man at all, any man, talks about some things he doesn't understand, and so Mr. Kostresh asks Mr. Ilic to fax him to see the contract, not knowing that the concession contract has 2,400 pages. You know, it's a little awkward to fax 2,400 pages. Mr. Kostresh has the opportunity to see what he is, whenever he wants, and as president of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, and as an ordinary citizen. As for Mr. Ilic's statement on why Mr. Kostresh is nervous, to tell you the truth, nor do I associate with Mr. Kostress, nor do I know whether Mr. Kostresh broke up with his boyfriend or didn't break up with his boyfriend, whether he has a boyfriend or has no boyfriend. At the very least...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2676	Mr. Mr. Mrvos, I'm asking you to address people with respect and we can't bring up such flat-rate stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2677	No, I'm saying, all right, Chairman, I say I don't know and that in the end it's personal matters of every person and personal matters of every individual, including Mr. Kostresh. I don't know, no, for Mr. Pitiæ, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2678	The People's Messenger of Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2679	Don't worry, I won't address you with my soul anyway. Namely, you showed an envious knowledge of the AP Vojvodina and the territorialisation of the Serbian organisation by not distinguishing the Assembly and the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina. They're both legitimate organs, but it only goes to you. Furthermore, it's quite all right for those who think it's okay to steal a little bit, to lie to you this time, so I have to tell you, Mr. Kostresh, on several occasions, and through the abovementioned state commissioner for information of public importance, has asked Master Ilic in any way to deliver that document, either by fax, whether it comes, whether it's sent, it doesn't matter at all. Now, you see, we don't even know how many contracts there are, which directly violates the concession law, where it is said that if any object that is placed under concession is located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to obtain an opinion from the AP Vojvodina. We don't know anything about it and it just shows the relationship and Minister Ilic and the entire government at all about the AP Vojvodina. We are not surprised at the man who behaves this way in his political work so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2680	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Vukelic. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and that the proposaler's representative, at the Committee's session, did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Nikola Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2681	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. I am submitting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. So, the amendment stipulates that in article 6, the word "day" is replaced by the words "eighth day of day", and then goes from publication to official messenger. I'm asking you if the reasons are from article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also existed on 30 May 2007, when the president of the National Assembly and MPs of the assembly majority claimed there was no obligation to respect Article 5. Constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You here in the material say that by passing this law by emergency procedure, it could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organizations. And you say that these are the reasons why this amendment is proposed to take effect on the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you, then, why did you violate Article 5 on May 30th? The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if the adoption of a law on free access to information is so urgent, then why did you put before the National Assembly the Law on Government and the Law on State Administration and, as SRS MPs have proven, any violation of the Constitutional Law. Furthermore, you say that a person with a recognised reputation and expertise in the field of protection and promotion of human rights is chosen for the trustee. Are we going to get a trustee from some of these famous NGOs? You have seen here that a man who is a member of the DS and a member of CESID has been appointed as Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly. It is concluded that the NGOs ran out of money they received from the West, so you want to arrest them all in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2682	Please don't give us a flat rate on NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2683	Then you say that the trustee cannot be a person who performs his duties or who is employed by another state body or political party. So this is where you play democracy. Clearly, this is the simplest farce and laxative, and you're distracting the citizens. Anyone who is appointed a trustee is absolutely certain to be a blind listener to the party who has appointed him here. So, Sonja Licht brought here, as we heard, the president of Dulic's Parliament. Looks like another one of her creditors...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2684	The president of the assembly was elected by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2685	But on the recommendation of Sonja Licht. So, I don't argue that it's important that we choose the trustee to pass this law, but I do think there are currently more important things that this National Assembly should discuss. This place looks like that people's "silence burns and the grandmother combs." While we are losing Kosovo and Metohija, while we are faced with the fact that your upcoming and current friends -- Americans and the West are kidnapping Kosovo, let us remember that before October 5th, you said that Kosovo is a democratic issue, how, when you come to power, you will solve it very quickly. Here's where you got us. Kosovo is almost lost, thanks to you and your friends. Our only hope is still in Russia. So I hope you accept this amendment and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2686	By amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2687	Mr. Albian, you have a very ugly manner. You just hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't want to report to the Rules of Procedure. I will use this time just to draw attention to you that you obviously have a problem with the fact that there are a large number of MPs in the SRS group who speak according to both the Rules of Procedure and the amendments, and in the principle debate, and every day there will be more and more of them, or everyone who is elected on the SRS list here will speak and, of course, will be very critical of the work of both the assembly majority and the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Don't ever try again what you just tried, when your colleague here said, to try to distract him in the middle of his discussion, to distract him, to distract him, to defocus him. You saw it, you failed. It's, as you've had a chance to hear, smart guy, you've seen a young, graduate political science, so, a man who's capable, Mr. Albianic, of dealing with you in every way. Don't be rude anymore. When you replace Mr. Dulic, whom Sonja Licht brought in, now stop me and say Sonja Licht didn't bring him in...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2688	Madam Radeta, the president of the assembly has been elected by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2689	Sonja Licht brought the President of Parliament here and forced him to vote for him to you and your fellow Members of the assembly. Yes, that's true, Mr. Albianic. Of course, I don't want to be a part of the debate between my colleague Jerkov and Mr. Grouch, in the sense of who's nervous, who's not nervous, who's got a boyfriend, who doesn't have a boyfriend. It's their private things, I mean those who have a boyfriend. I'm thinking of Bojan Pajtic and this Kostreš, who was spoken of by Miss Jerkov...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2690	Mrs. Radeta, please don't do these things in an inappropriate way.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2691	Mr. Albianic, please don't interrupt me, you have no right to do so. Look at the Rules of Procedure and see in which case you have the right to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2692	Only the chairman has the right to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2693	But when he thinks of it, when it's done to Mica Albianic that he can interrupt me, he can interrupt me? Or because you've learned where that bell is and you're always pushing, you're admiring, you're playing and you're pressing "it, look, it's ringing again." Don't, Mr. Albian, get serious. So, I'm not going into this debate, but when we talk about the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning and the Trustee of that Information, then one of the outstanding issues in the last maybe more than a month or two days, how long does it take, is the question that the current Commissioner Mr. Sabic has not received, and the newspaper has written that he has asked - on what grounds did Mr. Velimir Ilic declare some concession agreement with the state secret? It is indeed something that is of interest to all SRS deputies and, I am convinced, all citizens of Serbia. I won't say anything in advance, I don't doubt it, maybe it's an ideal contract, maybe we don't have a single grudge, but we don't know until we see it. Imagine, the minister says it's a state secret contract. Then you're telling us about the Free Access Act, the trustee who didn't get any information. There's only that information he can read in the paper. You'll hear when we talk specifically about your proposal, if that's what this proposal is, who only missed the picture in that previous article. Of course, we didn't get it, I said it when we spoke and in the principle debate, never of that trustee's newspaper "Great Serbia" received adequate information. We've always been informed that these authorities don't give him information. He seemed willing to do his job, but simply could not do it, because those holding information do not give it to him, so that he could introduce interested parties or citizens of Serbia to that information. I also asked him publicly from here, not only him, and state officials in charge of the area, who allowed UN investigators in the streets of Jevrem Grujic no. 10 to bring in Serbian citizens, to hold them in some basement, to guard that building, Mr. Jocic, the police of the Republic of Serbia, paid by this people, to try to bribe, bribe, convince, blackmail, threaten, to appear as false witnesses in the Hague trial against Dr. Vojislav Seselj? We can't get that information, we can't even get the paperwork we're looking for. When Carla del Ponte was here the other day, so everyone gave interviews, and Rasim Ljajic, and that Vukcevic, the pigeon catcher, I don't know who all, so happy, imagine, Carla had dinner with them. First she scolded them, she was tough, they say, and when they relaxed like that with dinner, they really enjoyed it. That's terrible. Afterwards, says Mr. Rasim Ljajic, that, apart from the fact that on Bežanja's hair, he did not say on Bežanja's hair, but I say, they caught General Tolimir, that Karli del Ponte had packed some large case of documentation necessary for the work of The Hague tribunal. The team for the defence of Vojislav Seselj, for sure for two months, has asked Mr Rasim Ljajic for the case file. Here when he was, before he was elected minister, when he was sitting in this room, I asked him what was going on with it, he told me -- I don't know, they didn't let me know, I'll see tomorrow and I'll send it. And now, instead of allowing Carla del Ponte to automatically deliver to Vojislav Seselj's defence team, and not only Vojislav Seselj, but also other Hague indictees, who are in The Hague tribunal, of course, do not think of them. We need to find out from some of his sources what he gave Carla del Ponte, so we need to ask for it and get a few months late. Then, of course, it is no wonder that what happened the most scary thing and that no one in this country in Serbia, except for radicals, has announced that the former president of Republika Srpska is sentenced to 35 years in The Hague. For what? Because he defended the Serb enemy in Republika Srpska, because he tried to preserve his own and the hearth of his countrymen? Shame, shame, ladies and gentlemen, from this country, from the president of the state, from the Prime Minister. The president was at the gallery to hear that those charged with the murder of Zoran Djindjic will be convicted, which he is interested in, and what about Milan Martic, he is not interested in. Milan Martic is not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia? And he doesn't care what happens to Zdravko Tolimir, a man who is in a very difficult state of health and is going to Belgrade doctors to examine him there to be able to persuade him, since a man is in such a difficult and physical and mental state, to sign that some Carmelas, an American of Greek origin, represents him, means, a lawyer, so that while he's still alive and unable to participate in the process, and allegedly with his signature, that someone who has a faster verdict of the Hague tribunal would act on him too. Ladies and gentlemen, these are moments and these are the years history will write about. Be assured that you will be enrolled in the blackest letters in the history of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. If this is funny to you, ma'am, come out here, stop for a pay phone so the citizens of Serbia can see what a funny story I'm telling right now is. Come out, smile here loudly, as you laugh in the bench, Madam of the DS and say, yes, to me and to my President Boris Tadic it's funny, it hurts our ears and for The Hague tribunal, and for Kosovo and Metohija, and for the citizens of Serbia, it's important that we travel to Europe, that we be well, that we take care of ourselves materially, to see this EPS, NIS, who gets what, DS, G17, DSS, and that you finish and you finish the story. So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't just know what's funny for you two, really. I'd like to ask you to come out here and comment, stand here and comment, and tell me if I'm wrong and why I'm wrong. We have suggested that we change this Article 6. There is not a single reason why, nor did Mrs. Susana Grubjesic's proposal, I don't even see her here, and the proposer of this text, explain to us what was so urgent that an exception was made from Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And also, I want to remind you of what Mr Tomislav Nikolic said yesterday. As soon as this law is passed in this House, on the same day we will apply for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of this law, which the Constitutional Court will do, of course, you have no idea what you think is funny, because you do not act according to the Constitution, you do not act in accordance with the Constitutional Law, you need neither the Constitution nor the laws, you just need to see where you are going to steal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2694	Don't do that, please. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, thank you. I conclude the review of the draft law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on State Auditions You have received amendments submitted by MPs Slavoljub Matic, Veroljub Arsic, Nebojsa Stefanović and Milena Stanković. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2695	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when this law was passed, the authorised representative of the proposings before the Committee on Finance of Serbia strongly praised the Law on the State Auditing Institution, promised that by taking effect on this law to resolve the way budgets are spent, that all those who have the budgetary means to have greater responsibility when they spend, that Serbian citizens, because of savings from the Serbian budget, would be better and that more with the same money would be able to do so. The law was passed on 14 November 2005, now in June 2007, the second year has already passed its half, and we do not have a state audit institution today. And, here, instead of proposing candidates for the Council of the State Auditing Institution, we now have a proposal to amend and supplement the law, where the two positions in one member change or delete. It is said that Article 16(1) replaces the word "seven" in the word "five" and that "a member of the Council may be elected a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who, in addition to the general conditions laid down by the law for the work of state bodies, meets the following conditions: he has a high school arrangement, at least 10 years of work experience, of which at least (seven changes and you say) five years in dealings related to the competences of the Institution". All of this would be fine if a person did not read your explanation, and in the explanation, it is said: "The proposer of this law has been in charge of the fact that the legal condition of seven years in dealings related to the competences of the Institution can be limited because, more than necessary, it narrows the circle of the person for the list of candidates for the selection of members of the Council, which is determined by the competent working body of the National Assembly. The experience of 10 years, i.e. five years in related (responsible) jobs, can fully ensure that a list of candidates is established and members of the Council who will carry out the tasks professionally and responsibly, in accordance with the law." So, gentlemen, you're trying to convince the MPs that by reducing the conditions to make a better choice. I guess there's a better choice coming from tightening the conditions or the goal is that, because candidates who need to get into this council simply have to go home, because I see that the most behind this proposal is the DSS, which had in the last government most of the ministries, and now it's not, that many assistants, many deputy ministers, many state secretaries, have lost their jobs, that they are provided through one such amendment of the law. Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to remind the ambassadors who are earning. This may be the case, on the one hand, that because of the change of will of the citizens of the DS, it is best to provide its officials and members who have lost their jobs to this new government. I am surprised that you remain stubborn in Article 20 of the law, which was also to be changed, in which it was to be written that a member of the council should not be elected and elected for five years, but for four years, how long the term of office, under the Constitution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's just proof that you actually want as many of your party colleagues as possible who have lost their jobs to hire a state body. Article 16 also deletes Article 2 and Article 2 says: "A member of the Council may be elected a person who was not a member of the government's body two years before the election, or a member of the Council of Ministers of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. "Let's look at what you're saying in the explanation: "Deleting Item 2 is conditioned by the end of the existence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro," so there's no need for this to stand. However, here it says - a member of the government's body, or member of the Council. What governments? As far as I know, since you abolished the SRJ with the Belgrade Agreement, which was not signed by the then president of the Republic of Serbia, means in an unconstitutional way, when you abolished the SRJ, any government has ceased to exist. This can only apply to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now tell me, if there is no longer a state union, and because of the state community, you lift the position of the 2nd member, does it mean that there is no longer even the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that the aim of the promoter? I don't think there's any need for MPs from the ruling majority to win as I speak for this pay phone, because they finally figured out that hooligans don't get put on their heads, just like you've been breaking into the People's Bank, but they're getting on their feet. (President: Mr. Arsic, please do not use inappropriate terms. You see that I warn all the Messengers. I didn't use any offensive expressions. I am glad that the ruling majority’s MPs have finally discovered what the wardrobe is and how it is used. As far as this state audit institution is concerned, the law came into force exactly a year ago. Has anyone signed a competition since the law entered into force and who has applied for the competition for members of the Council of the State Auditing Institution. It wasn't even signed up, it wasn't there, no one checked in. What makes you think that there are not enough experts who meet these criteria and who will be impartial in doing this job. Or you simply don't have enough people in your own parties to believe that they won't reveal through their reports the state audit institutions what you've been doing while you've been in power. Here, you may, gentlemen of the ruling majority, freely set up, when this law comes into force, and Mladjan Dinkic to be a member of the Council. You can, without a problem, meet the law of the intended conditions, when he hid some four billion dollars in Cyprus, so he hides every thieving you. (President: Mr Arsic, do not treat the Minister, Mr Dinkic, so casually and irresponsiblely. () When he managed to hide four or five billion dollars, which would not have succeeded in all your abuses and accidental spending of funds to hide. Or the current minister, formerly known as Bozidar Djelic - Bozo Derikoz. (President: Mr Arsic, according to ministers, officials, we must address all citizens with respect, without such qualifications. I guess that's the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. ) Mr. Chairman, I am a people's messenger, and the people called him God's Derikozh, just passing on what the people are saying. (President: Mr Arsic, but as MPs, we are obliged to respect each other and all citizens of Serbia and ministers. Don't I speak to you with all due respect? And to you, Mr. Chairman, let me say that I told you the same thing about this pay phone in 2001. She then chaired the assembly table at Natasa Micic, and even she did not find it appropriate to warn me. The worst president of the Serbian Parliament, and it is obvious that you are slowly moving towards reaching it and overcoming it. And now known as the Duke of Meridian Bank, he won the full title, Bozidar Djelic - Boza Derikož - Duke of Meridian Bank. Here he could, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, be an auditor, show the citizens of Serbia and this National Assembly how he managed to make it in two or three years 11m euros. All opportunities, ladies and gentlemen, are MPs, that after the new elections, which will be a very quick revision of budget spending, the revision of the business of state institutions, state authorities and the National Bank, in particular, for the emissions of state charters of value without coverage, will have to work not only on state audit institutions, but also on state prosecutors. And when it came to that former finance minister, Bozo Derikoz, he was coming for this pay phone, showing us some budgets from the 1930s, showing us how to make the budget, but from 2001 to the day today no one delivered us how you spent those budgets. That's why I'm convinced that the audit of your business will be done by the state's attorneys.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2696	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ognjen Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2697	Reporting under Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Yesterday I tried to get some information, while Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic was present. It was a great will, a brutal attack on democracy, when Mr. Micunovic voluntarily, without any authority, abolished one of our delegations, a delegation that was scheduled to travel to Kazakhstan for a meeting of the General Assembly of Orthodox MPs. I'd like one more thing to explain to me on that subject. (President: Excuse me, is this the former parliament of the state union? ) This delegation, Mr. Albianic, let me explain, since you obviously have no idea what this is about, and you're sitting in a place where at least you need to know something... (Chairman: To know which question to forward. Maybe it needs that institution that no longer exists. Mr. Albianic, I'll draw you all a nice picture, you'll understand what this is all about. It's a completely equal delegation, as well as the one you're sending to the NATO Pact meeting. So, we in this assembly are choosing members of delegations, it has not yet come to the agenda, it has not been voted on, but Mr Micunovic has already abolished some delegations, while others have been privileged. Just now, a member of the DS, an MP, I think his name is Mr. Petkovic, a younger man with glasses, went to get a visa for Brussels to take part in a NATO pact. Who sent him? Who authorized anyone to give him that visa? With what right does he do it? Is there a gray eminence behind everything again, for example? Mr. Dragoljub Micunović. I really need you to answer that question, although I don't expect it from you, but from the real president of the assembly, who's busy again, who knows where. I don't think we Serbian radicals can agree with that role you've given us, which is to be icaban in this assembly, that as an opposition, we're just making some general picture that this is about some democracy that isn't at all, because you're doing what you want, whenever you want and how you want. Of course, we're not as interested in this NATO Pact session as this other delegation I was talking about. We feel that life is vital, because we are thus strengthening our relationship with Russia. But Mr. Micunovic obviously has something against the Russian Federation. Our assembly won't send anyone to this session this year. I would like to get that answer -- how Mr. Petkovic could have stood in line for the visa, so freely express himself, and how it is possible for Mr. Micunovic to cancel the participation of our delegation in such an important meeting. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2698	Please forward this question to the competent institution. Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2699	Since you, Mr. Chairman, have ultimatically addressed MP Arsic as treating ministers with respect, let me now, treating ministers with respect, ask a few parliamentary questions. First of all, is it true that the Serbia State lottery is the private enterprise of Bojan Krist or Kristoff? (President: You yourself know that this is a state-owned company. Please don't treat important institutions like that. I didn't ask you for an answer. It is yours to write down what the MP asked, to ask Dinkic if you may ask him, and Dinkic's obligation is to deliver an answer to the MP in writing. Was the National Savings Bank a private bank for which the establishment used 52 million state funds held at the Euroaxis Bank? Is of those 4.5 billion, of course, with respect for Mr Dinkic, of those 4.5 billion dollars found in Cyprus, and we remember from 2002, all the inventors to the inventor, so he went to Mihajlovic and found them, the rest of them in Cyprus, went to Batic and found them, the rest of them in Cyprus, went to Velja Ilic and found them, the rest of them in Cyprus, went to Dinkic, found them, no longer stayed, not known where they were. (President: Mr Markovic, do not act irresponsiblely towards MPs and ministers. Don't ask me anything, turn off. Natasha, turn it off somewhere while I'm talking. I'm interested in the fate of the $4.5 billion state money that was in Cyprus. I would also like to know how much of the commission has been taken to sign that concession agreement for Horgos-Požega highway and whether it is a hospital built in Cačka within that concession, i.e. building a highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2700	According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2701	Mr. Chairman, it wasn't possible for me to get word from the Rules of Procedure while I was sitting in the vice president's seat, so I had to go back to the MP's bench, so that you would realize that my rights and obligations were the same as all the MPs and that you couldn't discriminate against me. I am now not answering the Rules of Procedure, but by something that you do not know exists, and it is called the Decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How am I supposed to call a member of the Rules of Procedure when I don't have a consolidated text of what I want to point out? That was a long time ago. This is Article 4. Decisions and amendments to Article 47(1) and reads - what the Committee on Foreign Affairs is doing. And now to come to this issue of Dragoljub Micunovic and these delegations. It is true that Mr Ognjen Mihajlovic was a member of the Interparliamentary delegation of Orthodoxy at the time he was an MP of the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly, and it is true that the visit to Kazakhstan was scheduled for June 19th. It is also true that the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has scheduled its regular meeting for 21. Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 25 to 29. But it is also true that the illegal representatives of these delegations have been going and traveling all this time since January 21st, or a year or so, because, firstly, with an indication and a decree, the former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Predrag Markovic, could not form the delegation. Now, since you today in the voting day, it will probably be today, you are just choosing these delegations, open and quite logically asking the question -- how dare Dragoljub Micunovic, when he knew that this point was on the agenda, to suspend the work of a permanent parliamentary delegation and to make a decision and be so boastful and to say that we will not participate in delegations in which Fired Mihajlovic was a member, but he, unlike Dragoljub Micunovic, knows that he has stopped this mandate and that he needs to be re-elected today, and will be elected today, because it is an agreement between the parliamentary groups, or our heads of MPs. The question arises -- how could Milos Aligrudic go, and you, Mr Albianic, with him, on 27 April at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Who were you representing there? Which is the worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, we did not admit that we were elected there, but to Mr Nikolic, Mr Vukic, even Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic, whose term of office ended here, came with material, as well as my smallness, a call for participation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. When I looked at the report from this 27-session, I grabbed my head. Those martyrs, those who went, don't even know what they signed there. Of some feminist resolutions, through all kinds of nonsense, you think they read it and they know how to read it, if someone doesn't translate it, and it doesn't translate, it just comes in English and French. Now you ask Albianic -- what you were doing there, if you were putting a signature somewhere, he doesn't, because he didn't read it. And he knows he's breaking up a man, and yet at the post of vice president, he says, "Your colleague says you're an icaban." Not that I'm not an icaban, Mr. Albianic, but I'm going to teach you to the unconscious Rules of Procedure, at least three members to learn when you sit down to chair. It'll be a success for me. If you kids at school have learned anything from first to fourth high school in mathematics, it will really be a great success for me and I will admit at the end of this term that I taught you that at least you know three members of the Rules of Procedure when you sit down to chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2702	As far as reporting according to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic, you have received a word exactly in order, as your previous colleagues have previously reported to you in the Rules of Procedure. As for the Strasbourg delegation, I represented this parliament and the state of Serbia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in a decent manner, as you remember, did not pass the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija as some wanted. We have represented this House with dignity. According to the amendment, MP Misa Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2703	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when life goes one way, and the parliamentary majority and the government raises questions beyond that, then the Assembly is. I have come to the floor to support Mr Veroljub Arsic's amendment to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the State Auditing Institution. To be honest, if there was an opportunity to submit an amendment to delete the entire draft law amending the law, I would accept that amendment. The amendments to this law show all the senselessness of the work of the Assembly in the last month. To remind, in the last month, the government and the parliamentary majority, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had no key issue on the agenda, no life issue. The National Assembly had no constitutional law on the agenda. That's why she had motions to amend laws that had nothing to do with the application of the Constitutional Law and nothing to do with it. In a month's time, this congregation, through the will of the congregation’s majority, adopted only amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is contrary even to the Constitution. Let me remind you, by the will of the assembly majority for seven days, we were dealing with the senseless proposals of the Law amending the Government Act, the State Administration, the civil servants, then withdrawing it, of course, the parliamentary majority. Let me remind you, this session, too, has been out of line with the Constitution, and it's been going on for seven days. According to the Constitutional Law, there are only two amendments to the law: the protection of citizens and amendments to the Law on the Trustee for Information. This amendment to the law has nothing to do with the Constitutional Law, and that is why I have reported that I am talking about amendments to the Law on the State Auditing Institution, to make it clear that, by the will of the Government, by the Parliament's majority, for a month the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not have on the agenda such difficult, so large issues of importance for Serbia, such as the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, and it was likely that, when the Government was established, it continued with the constitution of all the bodies. For a month now, I don't know, half the world has been discussing Kosovo and Metohija, all except the National Assembly. For a month now, everyone who comes to mind abroad has been dividing Serbia's territory like they own it. Only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not consider the issue an urgent matter. Instead of this government, which has begun its mandate without credibility and without mutual trust, and with incompetent ministers, and against the constitutional functioning of the last month, has urgently gone to the National Assembly with a report on the course of events, these are no longer the negotiations, what kind of negotiations, about Kosovo's status, and to invite everyone to a gathering, to unity, to a consensus on this national and state interest, we have amendments and additions to the Law on the state audit institution which, now try to explain, means nothing. What exactly does the Proposer propose with these changes, is he asking? The proposal is a group of MPs, i.e. the parliamentary majority. It's authorized, I think, by Mr. Aligrudic. He's asking for one member to change, just one member. But the change of that one member means another ten days to gain in time, that this, as they call themselves, the democratic bloc gets more time to agree, to determine the percentage of the participation in that cookie's debut, to produce it, because they experience power. Even now it's no longer a dispute between parties to fight for part of the cake, now they're fighting within their own party. Here's an example, Djelic and Vlahovic escaped who would rob the Energoproject. This one has its own consulting house, Vlahovic has its own Ekinvestment, etc. That's what this government is practically doing. During that time these events, life, pass us by. To go back to the bill of amendments. What has been prescribed so far? The state audit institution, the law was passed almost two years ago. When you look at the whole of the law, and when it's still nicely wrapped up and presented to the public, it's a very nice package, it sounds very nice, and it can be very nice in contact with the public to explain itself. It's been two years, it's not applied. Almost two years have passed, he does not have the highest authority of the institution – the Council. Instead of at least now, as is mandatory under the Constitutional Law, the proposed composition of the Council, we are proposing a pointless amendment to the law. To explain, I will remind you first of the importance of the institution. The institution is the highest state body to audit public funds, independent and independent. The act by which the institution exercises its jurisdiction may not be subject to a dispute before courts and other state bodies. So, a powerful one institution, and first of all it needs to be professional. What are they suggesting? We are suggested to lower for a member of the Council, reduce the criteria for his choice. Instead of seven years of work, which are linked to the functioning of the institution's competence, it requires five years. The least problem is in the number of years, the big problem is I'm accessing it. To remind you, the President of the State Auditing Institution is elected as well as any member of the Council. He's, by law, a general state auditor. He is the one who, by law, proposes the Supreme State Auditor. For the Supreme State Auditor, stricter conditions have been prescribed, as many as eight years. For those who manage the entire institution, five years are prescribed. So absolutely unacceptable. The second change, and that was even a formal restriction in the law that one who would be elected a member of the council couldn't be if he was a member of the government's authority in the last two years. I know that's not enough to respect, but at least it's formally placed as a request. Now it's wiped out, which means it can. However, the promoter says, well, in Article 17, everything is completely incompatible. Yes, he can't now, but let's say take an example of this Vlahovic, who is now evading around the Energoproject. He was a minister four years ago. Under these amendments, he can now be a member of the Council. Yeah, because it's not right now, I guess it didn't belong to him in the cookie distribution. It could be because he's not a minister now. So, when you look at it, the criteria are reduced on the one hand, and on the other hand, the limitation that was present is abolished, and in fact you can see from all that it's completely pointless to change this law. It was aimed only at getting more time, to have Serbia entertained everything and everything, not key issues of the Constitutional Court, Kosovo, the budget and not to list any further. The state audit institution is a very significant body that audits all public funds. Serbia has not known for six years what has been happening to the vast billions that have been in power since 2001. There's no way he's getting a report on this, there's no way anyone's controlling it, nor has the Assembly had a chance to consider it. The only thing they had the chance to listen to and read about the previous minister accusing the current Deputy Prime Minister of damaging the budget by 35m euros. I'm not saying it's not, I'm just saying it's what it says. Of course, no one has found themselves here to determine what it is, no one has found to answer that question to the public. Simply, using these funds is completely out of control. Then, public enterprises, local self-government, so just take Belgrade, in the hands of one man there are over 800m euros. So much is the budget of the city of Belgrade. The owner of these funds in Belgrade is one man. Without reports, without control, no one knows where these huge assets are being spent anymore. But Belgrade citizens know that Belgrade is only making makeup in the city centre. During that time, you cannot enter Belgrade, nor can you get out of Belgrade, because everything is jammed. Belgrade, like, is achieving a 50m-euro surplus, and a bridge costs 40m euros. He's gone. And now a prize game can be organised that manages to cross New Belgrade or from New Belgrade to Belgrade and so on. A whole series of such important issues are, and that's why there are certainly a lot of important issues ahead of this institution, but instead of choosing the Council, that this job is done, we have a proposal to change the law in one sense. For these reasons, I support this amendment and I will support any one to be abolished by any of these provisions proposed in the amendments to the Law on the State Auditing Institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2704	Do any of the MPs report for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MEP Milena Stankovic submitted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milena Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2705	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, the most effective form of government control by parliament is precisely budgetary control. That is why we think it is essential to preserve the independence of the work of the audit institution, including the most important body of the audit institution, which is the Council. The Council, as you know, appoints and resolves the National Assembly. The draft law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution proposed that Article 16 of the Basic Law delete the position 2 which states: "A member of the Council may be elected a person who was not a member of the Government's body two years before the election, or a member of the Council of Ministers of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro." With this amendment, the Liberal-Democratic Party proposes that Article 1st position 2 be amended and read: "A member of the Council may be elected a person who was not a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia or a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia two years before the election". We have proposed this precisely because we want to preserve the independence of this institution, so that we do not come to a situation where a member of the Auditing Institution Council is a person who was previously active in the previous Government. So we would have the consequence that someone who was a member of the previous government is now through the Council to control the work in terms of the distribution of the new government's budget. What is also interesting, and what is somehow imposed as unusually, is that the position of Article 1 of the 16th basic law is also changed, and that it is said that, in order for a person to be elected as a member of the Council, it takes at least ten years of work experience, of which at least seven, as provided for in the previous law, are now scheduled for five years, in dealings related to the competences of the Institution. All these changes, and I'm also talking about changing attitudes one and two, kind of acting to us as if a person from the previous government had already been seen at the place of one of the members or one of the members of the Council. So we insist that you honor this amendment of ours just to preserve the independence of this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2706	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2707	Mr. Chairman, I am currently reporting under Rule 226. I'm looking for an explanation in writing, since the ministers and prime ministers I'm calling here and asking questions aren't here right now, to answer us orally. As soon as the government of the third DOS government has begun, I hope the government of short duration, it is necessary to see what these DOS governments have done in the past seven years well for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2708	Is that a question to a historian or a specific minister? That we know exactly, since it's a historical examination. What's the question?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2709	Mr. Albianic, I know you're good at math, but let me explain, so let me ask you a question. The common feature of all three governments is that the wrong people are in the wrong places, who call our economic downturn reform. They have sold a complete Serbian economy, up to now for 2.1 billion euros with huge fees, and very often the government's own members were customers of our companies, doing so with exotic islands, through their company's boyfriend and the money they stole from this people, Mr Albianic. You are currently sitting in the government's Deputy Prime Minister, Bozidar Djelic, "the Duke of Meridian Bank"....
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2710	I ask that we treat the ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister with respect, without such qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2711	With great respect to Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who won the title of "the Duke of Meridian Bank", who has 11 million shares in his name, registered in Meridian Bank. It was reportedly acquired by three and a half years of government ministry as finance minister. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Bozidar Djelic, what is the salary of the finance minister for the three and a half years could be when he acquired and registered on his behalf 11m euros? Mr. Albianic, you're a mathematician, so you can split it into three and a half years. So, every year there are 12 salaries, plus thirteen if you've shared, you can ask about it best, your party president is an expert on finance, so you can explain to us and explain to us here how much pay that could have been to Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who was then Minister of Finance. What citizens will think of you is not 11,000 euros, but 11m euros, Mr Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2712	Time, Mr. Topalovic, is up on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2713	Can I have another minute or should I pick up after the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2714	Come on, finish your exposure. Tolerance is present.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2715	The question for the defence minister, Mr. Sutanovac - is it true, Mr. Minister, and I'm asking you, who exactly owns a chain of pumps in Serbia, ELP pumps, which, I must admit, are well and well supplied?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2716	You can ask around in the Business Register.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2717	With rich content... Mr. Albianic, you have them when you go to Koserić, on the right, on the Ibaric Master's Department there, if you go to your native Koserić, I think you're going. Do you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2718	I am from Požega, I repeat, you are wrong again, the municipality of Požega is close to Koserić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2719	You are in between, but close to Koseric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2720	I am near Koseric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2721	You are a professor of mathematics, and here's one piece of information to give to the citizens of Serbia and the MPs. When you were a professor of mathematics, you took your students to your native village for village glory. According to the old Serbian custom, you welcomed them in the folk costume, which is for every praise, but of course before the end of that day, you made an incident that night, it can be called that. In your alcoholic state, you were sitting on a bench with no back, so you fell on your back and no one could lift you up and set you off. If I'm out of time, to move on or are you going to let me move on now, Mr. Albianic? One more question for Mr. Sutanovec. What about five acres of orchards under peaches in Bolech village near Belgrade? Is it possible that the Ministry of Defense won't make a jam out of those peaches for the military, and I ask Mr. Minister Sutanovac, the Secretary of Defense, who owns it, does he know anything about it? Of course, Mr. Albianic, just to remind you, I'm looking for this in writing to respond, because the Secretary of Defense is not here right now. Can I continue, since I've already timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2722	It's really too much time spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2723	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2724	Otherwise, it's not exactly information that I fell off some bench. It's true that I got married in a folk costume. That's the only thing you've told me, as it is, and it's true that my former students came to the wedding that day. National MP Slavoljub Matic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed that Article 1a be added after article 1. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2725	Dear MPs, I have submitted an amendment whose purpose is to bring the Law on the State Auditory Institution in line with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the new Constitution prescribes that all electoral powers of the Republic Assembly must be voted upon by an absolute majority of the MPs. Members so far, i.e. The current law stipulates that only most MPs vote on the advice of the audit institution, which means that it was not constitutional and I say that this amendment is harmonising the law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What matters to the law itself is that it introduces order into spending budget money. I think that all that we have heard from the MPs about the need to control public finances and that we will get exactly by applying this law, what we also hear as an objection by opposition MPs, about the work of Parliament and building basic institutions, I am fully in agreement with these remarks. It is simply encouraging what we have heard from the president of parliament, it is that we will already have a debate over the new republican budget, the Constitutional Court and, of course, Kosovo in the coming week. Although, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, I think it is quite clear what our officials, the top people of this country say, and it is absolutely in line with what we last, in October, had as a declaration of our citizenship over the new Constitution. That's perfectly clear for everyone here. I don't think it's necessary today in this way to spend the time and money of taxpayers that many here are concerned about. I think we've got a lot of work to do, and that's all law-making work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2726	Thank you, Mr. Matice. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Just to make a deal, we have one word from the Rules of Procedure and another amendment, so we can finish our work, and then we can take a break. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2727	I am reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and regarding the discussion of Mr Petronijevic from the SPS and my colleague Slavija Topalovic. Since Mr Djelic has been mentioned in various contexts of the story and its action in Meridian Bank. As an economist, I say, a man who still knows this matter about actions and I am a shareholder in the Galenika phytopharmacy, I know that you can exercise the right to action through free actions, buying shares, or maybe he's got a contract with a Meridian bank for his consulting, help the bank. I am now interested and asking this question, which I want answered in writing, and I think the citizens of Serbia are also interested in, so it would be nice for Mr Djelic to come and say on what basis he has achieved 10m-euro actions. He can say it's maybe nine million and 800 or 10, but the point is how he got to them. When did he buy them? What price did he buy them for? Did he sell them in the meantime? If he sold them in the meantime, you know that a profit tax must be paid immediately, which is the difference between the purchase price of shares and the sale price of shares, 20% is paid and paid in the municipality where Mr Djelic lives. So this community is going to be the richest, and I'm sure the richest municipality if it's only 20% difference. What I wanted to ask another question for Mr. Djelic, that is, if the Meridian Bank, in which he had the actions had successfully done business, and logically if he was giving advice there, it would be a shame that a man who was a minister, now vice-president of the government, would be able to do business with his loss. If she's doing business with profits, and I'm sure they'll make a profit, how much of the profits were allocated for dividends. If he has 10 million values in shares, if only 10% is allocated for dividends to all Meridian Bank shareholders, he only received 1m euros based on dividends, and that is the minimum that is allocated for dividends. I'm saying, I can also say an example of my Galenika company, Phitopharmation, how much it is to get and how it's being deployed, but it's a lot less numbers. Now imagine you, at the 10m euros he has in charters, and the average salary in Serbia is maybe 20 and some thousands, he's got a million to two million euros, and then it's a little degutant when he says - I don't have 10 million, but I have 9 million and 800 or 9 million and 100. It is very important for the public to know at what price and how he bought the stock, at which price he bought it and when he sold it. If he sold, to know if he immediately paid, because the small shareholders as soon as they sold, they had to be paid immediately in the municipality, you have to take the Public Revenue Administration and show the evidence at which price you bought, how you made the stock and at what price you sold, to determine that 20% difference. I know that Mr. Djelic boasted that he was a real player and I see that he's really a man who likes sports like this, but he never seemed to be a football player, and otherwise Meridian Bank is the main sponsor of our league, Meridian League, it's a football league, and then he starts off with a story about how he plays in Real. Now to be honest, until now, but he has never been angry with Mr Djelic for giving him the nickname of Serbian citizens what -- Boza Derikoz. He said himself... (Chairman: Please don't put it that way...) I said he made a public statement, on TV and in the newspaper, that he liked it. In order for Mr Djelic to be familiar with the new factual state, from now on he is no longer called Bozo Derikož, but Boza Bekam. For the uninvited to say that Mr. Beckham is the world's highest-paid football player, otherwise he plays in Real. He appears to be a role model for our Mr. Djelic and now Mr. Djelic has a new name. I'll be done in no time, Mr. Albianic. I'm not gonna talk about whether you fell off the bench or not, I'm sticking to this area. But it is obvious that the people were inspired and realized that Mr. Bekam was the world's most paid football player, and Mr. Djelic was talking about how he earned the game in Real. I'm afraid, since I'm on the Sports and Youth Committee, we're going to have to make amendments on our committee and there's going to be such a rush of foreign players here, when they heard our Mr. Boza Bekam was paid. I don't think real players can make 10m euros in a year, so we're going to have to bring one clause to how many foreign players can play in our league, and when everyone's inspired by Mr. Djelic's earnings, I think we're going to have the strongest league in the world, all the players are going to rush, by the example of Mr. Djelic, in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2728	National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, even though we are in a meeting today that is not in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Serbia, which is, of course, completely abnormal, because so are the citizens who have supported this constitution, I have submitted an amendment that speaks of deadlines for the adoption of this law. This is, of course, just one of the amendments that SRS MPs are trying to make, although this law should not have been held on the agenda at this session, to fix and indicate some of the shortcomings of this law that is before us today. Usually when the Government or the Proposer's representative speaks of amendments to MPs, it is said - the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legal and the committee responsible, for example in this case the Committee on Finance, has accepted or has not accepted the amendment of the MPs. You couldn't hear this today about the amendments submitted by MPs of all the parliamentary groups on this bill, because we had a situation, I don't know, it's probably unprecedented, that the ruling majority MPs left the session of the committee that had the quorum to work on, because they realized that at that moment within the board they didn't have the majority to decide. In such a way, they took the most serious part in the obstruction of work, and it is the ruling majority that has the majority in the committee as well. The fact that the gentlemen have failed to bring all their MPs here is another question. You today do not have the opinion of the Finance Committee because the ruling majority MPs did not want to participate. About the amendment itself. I predicted, therefore, that since our constitution says, and most people probably don't think it should be held to something particular, it says that when all acts are adopted, whether they are laws, constitutions or sublegal acts, they enter into force at the earliest of the eighth day of the day of publication and can only come into force early if there are particularly justified reasons for that, etc. In the proposal for a law that is before us does not even have this argument which was in the previous two laws that we have discussed this week, that the reasons for the entry into force on the day of publication which could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. It's not even formally stated in this law, not even formally. We have a situation that is one of the laws that significantly regulates anti-corruption matter in Serbia. So, the State Audit Authority Act, you have to understand, regulate something that affects every citizen of this country's life. You heard my colleague Arsic, who spoke precisely about all the institutions, not to repeat it, which the Council and the other bodies of the audit institution, or institutions control. They're literally all budgetary institutions. You can thus determine, since we haven't had a final account in Serbia since 2001, we have now recently received for 2006, from 2001 until then, these four final accounts, we haven't received, we don't know how the taxpayers' funds have been spent. We don't know how the budget was spent, but we know, here's a colleague from the SPS said about Belgrade and about the bridge that the bridge wasn't built. I just have to let him know, there's one and they call it a stealth bridge or an invisible bridge. Citizens often hang on to it without even noticing it. This is how loans are done and taken from European banks, taken and owed to Belgrade, Serbia is in charge. Then you can't see how they've been spent and that's where the story ends. Also, the lack of external audit and all that I have stated shows you what incompetence or desire it is to cover up the real motives of whoever is passing this law. You know, today this law is on the agenda against the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. And today in the Serbian Parliament, the Stanojkovic family from the village of Sušići, from the municipality of Strpce, from Kosovo and Metohija, and otherwise they have nine children, and they have no job, no safety, no freedom. They live in complete isolation and came here, to this congregation, to seek help. I singled them out because they're here today. They present to us in a way all of Serbia, all of the Serb people who are at risk today, and those citizens who are destroying the future, because their jobs are being cut off, and those citizens who have been in privatization, whom citizens call 'the thiefing', who have lost those jobs, companies that have been completely robbed by representatives of both the current and previous authorities since 2000 and who have no one to protect. It also connects the matter of this law, because without an audit facility you can't even control these operations and manipulations, and you can't decide whether it's done legally or not. Not to mention everything my colleagues have been saying here, which is about the attitudes that the ruling majority is proposing to change in this law, which, in fact, comes down to the fact that an expert is preparing from 7 years of age to 5 years of age, or work experience, which is very important, and is being reduced, because it's clearly preparing human beings for people who have inadequate expertise, or work experience. When you have a working experience of someone who's 5 and someone who's 7 years old, it's funny that someone is literally processing the law to answer that law to some human case. Not to mention this part that says that a member of the Council cannot be elected a person who, two years before the election, was not a member of the government's body, or a member of the Council of Ministers, etc., because it is the same case. It is obvious that some of the personnel who were in these institutions are about to be adopted. These days, colleagues have been saying that many firms are asking to be inside these organizations, in audit firms they can't find people who even in the wider family have someone who worked in such an institution, that we're asking for someone to get into an audit facility to control the work, for example. Governments or some organ, who, by the way, worked in that organ recently. It's really a scandal. It would be like choosing someone from the Assembly to control the work of the congregation. Or, as we do, unfortunately, the representatives of the ruling majority committee are controlled by ministers from the respective parties. So, if he's a health minister, then he's the chairman of the Health Committee from that party from which he's a minister, etc. There's an obvious desire to cover up spending money, to prevent work control, to mask it all, and then present it to the people as a concern for the future. It would be better if today on the agenda what needs to be under the law and the Constitution. I wouldn't mind if we had broken the constitution, but to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, to talk about Serbia's future, to talk about corruption and crime that are destroying Serbia today, which are eating us. The fact that the gentlemen were unable to agree on the Constitutional Court, because as an MP, and I am saying this on behalf of all citizens of Serbia, like you, I am not in a position to ask for a procedure for the assessment of constitutionality, because there is no authority that I could do so. We don't have a Constitutional Court, nor does the Board of Auditors. We're talking about amendments and additions to the law, and there's no highest authority to do this job. Not to mention the Supreme Cassation Court and the other bodies that the Constitution predicts should be elected at the first session, after a constitutional session. So at this point MPs of the ruling majority are not in the O.R., there are dozens of them. That shows their concern. They invite us to spend the taxpayers' money carefully, and they spend it by not being in the O.R., and they will take away all the privileges that belong to them as ambassadors of the people. They don't care about their sessions. I'm saying this because of the citizens, not because of them, because I know that in the voting day, they will vote the way most people will. For the sake of Serbian citizens, try to do honor, fight for this republic, for its people. We will have a debate on both Kosovo and Metohija, and on the confidence of the government, which the SRS has submitted, when we will be able to say much more about the details of everything that this or previous government has done. Now, let me tell you, these laws are not in line with the Constitution, but the amendments we want to propose serve to fix this difficult situation, and it would be better if we had discussed the difficult situation suffered by the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, because for days now, Thaci's statement has been heard, where they say they have already prepared independence, and NATO generals say "no problem, the situation in the north is peaceful". It would be better if the Republic Assembly talked about it, we'd better fight for a better life for the citizens than we do for unconstitutional activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2730	Thank you very much. National MP Natasa Jovanovic came to the floor. There's another four minutes left for the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the necessity of a state audit institution is something that we point to because of the fact that you are in 2001, Mr Tabakovic will correct me if I am wrong, have passed the Law on the Budgetary System, which has made it possible to work in a non-transparent way, since you like to say it. You also heard from her two days ago that a permanent representative of the IMF, a certain Harold Hishofer, gave you a warning that the items and the bill, which are used for the highest degree of abuse, robbery and theft, from the republican budget of local self-government, are those which are called contract services and specialised services. I came forward because the Kragujevac City Assembly, otherwise one of the most in charge of Serbia, which owes 14m euros and a half million euros on the basis of the loans that Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic put us in yesterday, voted, of course, with opposition from the SRS board, the final budget bill for 2006. As a councilman, Professor Poscurica and other SRS representatives from Kragujevac, we do not know where all Stevanović spent money on contract services and specialised services. It's not a small budget, it's over four billion in such a busy city. However, the Finance Ministry, which was led in the technical government by Parivodić, but also this Vesna Djindjic, who has now moved to another post, has given the possibility to all local self-governments that, due to this situation, this vacuum that you have consciously created in order not to have insight and control of public finances, from local self-government to the republican budget, has sent a letter to all local self-governments, since it has been an obligation for everyone to adopt their final budget accounts by the day after tomorrow, that they do not have to engage because there is no state audit institution, an external audit of the final budget account. Look what a paradox that is. Mrs Tabakovic is the chairman of the Finance Committee at the National Assembly. In the town of Kragujevac, Mr. Slobodan Divjak, a Serbian radical, a graduate economist, is chairman of the Kragujevac City Budget and Finance Committee. Although he has so many times asked for three years so far to create an insight, as president of the Committee, into the 411 and 422, which was spent by the 14 and a half million, so much Stevanović, I think Veroljub, called Verko, is what you call your coalition of mercy, spent on travel only in 2006. That's what he showed, he's six and a half million. As long as it's not, the citizens are wondering. Now the question arises - the moment this continent is circled and you finally choose a state audit institution, will you go back six years? What are we going to do about spending the DS money from 2000 to 2004 in Kragujevac or at the level of the Republic, the previous DOS, and Kostunica's previous, so now you along with Kostunica? You don't think it's going to be under the "Play Dots" system. Where did you steal? You stole -- nobody saw, there was no audit, there was no audit state institution. That's not gonna work. In addition to asking for a constitutional assessment, according to Radeta and counterpart Stefanovic, all three laws, we will have to insist continuously, from local self-government to the republican budget, to gain insight into where the funds are spent, and these are huge billions in one city and hundreds of billions of dinars in the Republic of Serbia on these two continents, I repeat again, even this IMF guy of yours gave you pucks, where the most hijacked and stolen. Underneath that, he can get under it all. How do I know what the former finance minister, the current, any government minister, is going through? You know, Gašo Knezevic had 120 and a few million dinars for specialized services at the time. Do you know how much money that is? He didn't account anyone for it. Maybe someone there internally audited the ministry, and that's the question. A thief will say, "Keep the thief." Therefore, we must go back to six years and insist, I call on all the MPs, Serbian radicals are, above all, moral and honorable people, who want to have insight into where each dinar has been laid and all the committees in Serbia until these next local elections, immediately after the establishment of the State Audit Institute, to review all public finances from 2000 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2732	Thank you. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law amending the Law on the State Audit Institution in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today, on 13 June 2007, at 1600 hours, as a voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-06-13-0.u2733	If we can start with a vote. At the beginning of work, we need to determine the quorum. Since the electronic system shows that we have enough MPs to decide on, we are going to work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE CIVIL PROTECTOR LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Civil Protection Act, in principle. For 128, against 16, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MPs Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci have tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 1. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 209, five of the 214 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 81, out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 130, they did not vote 74 out of 215 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 194, against three, it did not vote 19 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 136, he did not vote five out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On the fourth amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Nenad Canak. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 103, three abstentions, were not voted 100 out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 134, seven of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 131, 77 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after article 7. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 131, 77 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Marija Milisic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 135, two abstentions, three of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 75, against 137, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Having decided on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Civil Protection Act, in general. For 131 versus 10, it did not vote 20 out of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protector of Citizens. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON FREE APPLICATION OF INFORMATION FROM THE PUBLIC ASSESSMENT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, in principle. For 131 against 5, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law on principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Committee's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 132, there were no 11 votes, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Committee's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 74, against 133, two abstentions, did not vote 8 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Committee's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 136, two abstentions, three of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Vukelic. The Committee on Culture and Information suggests that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Committee's representative did not accept the amendment at the meeting. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 77, against 131, 9 of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on free access to information of public importance, in general. For 131 versus 8, it did not vote 16 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on State Auditory Institution Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution, in principle. For 131 against 17, 5 of the 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 131, 10 of the 217 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milena Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 132, 76 of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Proposal to add Article 1a after Article 1. National MP Slavoljub Matic submitted an amendment with an amendment, proposing that Article 1a be added after article 1. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 134, against four, a abstentioned one, did not vote 79, out of 218 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 131, abstention 7, four of the 218 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the State Auditing Institution, in general. For 131 versus 26, of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Auditing Institution. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposals of Parliament groups for amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 105, item 2, point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members, decides by a majority vote of all MPs of the National Assembly. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal-Democratic Party. They didn't vote four for 212, of the 216 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democratic Party. I put to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the correction, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. For 216, one of the 217 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's board with a correction, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a correction, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Srpska - Dr Vojislav Kostunica. For 213, against one, there was no vote of three, of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a correction, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia-Nova Srpska -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. For 211, four of the 215 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Two out of 218 MPs voted for 216. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the motions for decisions, I ask if you agree that all adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as one legally-technically united act – Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 156, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 61, out of 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, without proposing to elect MP Cedomir Jovanovic as a deputy member in the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For 215, against one, a abstentioned one, was not voted by two, of the 219 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, without proposing to elect MP Cedomir Jovanovic as a deputy member of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation of the Council of Europe. We move to a decision on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 8 June 2007 at 13.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 167 and 169. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 28 out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Dr Vladan Batic, at a session on June 8th 2007 at 13.45pm, pointed to a violation of Articles 90, 190 to 202 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 11, v. 127, a abstentioned one, had not voted 17, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Momir Markovic, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 14.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 226 and with regard to Article 158. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 131, 20 of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Zoran Krasic, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 14.10 p.m., pointed to a member injury: 90, 139, 140 and 225. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Ambassador Verica Radet, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 14.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 100th and 104th. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 132, 21 of the 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Ambassador Zoran Krasic, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 14.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of members from 166 to 169. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 126, 30 of the 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 14.25 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 130, it did not vote 20 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlović, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 14.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 104, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 130, it did not vote 20 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Ambassador Zoran Krasic, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 14.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 166 and 169. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Slavisa Topalovic, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 15.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, it did not vote 22, out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 8 June 2007, at 3:15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, they did not vote 24 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Momir Markovic, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 10:35 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 225. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For one, against 129, there was no vote of 20, of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Damnjanovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 10.50 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 131, 19 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slavisa Topalovic, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 11.00 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 128, they did not vote 22 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 11:10 p.m., pointed to a member injury: 27, 100, 104, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one against 120, 29 out of 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Ambassador Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 11.25 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 27, 100 and 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one, against 129, 19 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Slavisa Topalovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 11:57 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 22, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slavisa Topalovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 12.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 129, 20 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Petar Jojic, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 12.31 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 130, it did not vote 20 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slavisa Topalovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 12.37 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, it was not 24 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zdravko Topalovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 12.58 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 123, 27 of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Ambassador Nikola Vukelić, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 13.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of members225. and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether those members of the Business are injured. Against 127, it did not vote 23 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on June 12, 2007, at 3:10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milosav Milickovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 15.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 124, a abstentioned one, no vote of 25, of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. MP Dusan Stupar, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 15.25pm, pointed to a violation of members 100. and 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the said members of the Businessmen have been injured. Against 129, he did not vote 21 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there are no injured members of the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Milan Avramovic, at a session on June 12, 2007, at 15,28 hours, pointed to a violation of article 105. Position 1.Employee. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 130, it did not vote 20 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 15.37 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 22, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 15.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 28th and 104th. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether those members of the Business are injured. Against 126, 23 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Gojko Radic, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 15.45 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 129, he did not vote 21 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Cvetanovic, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 16.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 129, 20 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Amjad Migati, at a session on June 12, 2007, at 16:10 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 127, it did not vote 20 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Predrag Stošić, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 16.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 100(3) of the Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 124, 23 of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Dragoljub Anastasovski, at a session on June 12, 2007, at 4:30 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 125, it did not vote 22, out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sreto Peric, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 16.35 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 130, 17 of the 147 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, at a session on June 12th 2007, at 16.40 p.m., pointed to a violation of members 100th and 200th. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether those members of the Business are injured. Against 128, it did not vote 19 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 12 June 2007, at 16.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 1. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 122, 24 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Krstin, at a session on June 12th, 2007, at 17.00 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 119, 27 of the 146 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milosav Milickovic, at a session on 13 June 2007, at 10.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 125, he did not vote 21 out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Thank you.
