ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14836	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. Please confirm the quorum. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Riza Halimi. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Privatization (separation) continues on the occasion of the amendment to Article 16 submitted by MP Željko Vasiljevic. Before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to address the Rules of Procedure, Members of 225 and 226. Last night, it happened in the town of Ledine, that the citizens, having no other way, had been talking to Elektro-distribution and the city, had no electricity for seven days, under these temperatures, minus seven-eight, with small children, had to take advantage of the only opportunity, which is to go out on the street with a peaceful protest, to close that section towards Surcin. No one came to them, this information from Elektro-distribution was that the trafo couldn't handle it. Now you see what order of size it is, it's 350 households. Otherwise, it's the beginning of Ledin, the Surcin road, the largest and longest street, where people paid for the connections neatly and everything is legal, for years they've been living here and paying neatly. They ran out of power, with nowhere to go, went out on the street and closed the road. There was a presence and a militia, and I must really say that the militia members, Commissioner Puzovic of Bezanija's hair, have been extremely correct, and everything has passed in calm flow, but simply, no one wanted to talk to them, nor to turn them on. Seven days at these temperatures is really something that is unbearable and not appropriate, I say, it's New Belgrade, it's a legal settlement, it's all stable, it's all paid. There's a Grand Coffee across the street and their parking lot that lights up like Las Vegas, and here the citizens of Ledin don't have electricity. That's some problem that's already been going on. I was taking it out here, out of this booth, they didn't have water this summer, and now in winter they don't have electricity and they don't know what to do anymore. They've scheduled that if they don't get the power back on today, they'll continue the 1800-hour protest. I have to say that the really correct citizens acted and their representative Mr. Kovianic explained nicely why it was not possible to get electricity somehow differently, but had to go out on the street and ask for their rights and what they had neatly paid to do. They paid neatly for all the traffickers, all the permits, and it's a settlement that's been there for three years, and those who took the money should've thought about whether these traffickers would hold so many consumers. Meanwhile, others appeared on Ledines, I say, Grand Coffee and others, which are large consumers at the expense of citizens. They have electricity, and citizens with small children freeze because they have no alternative heating. There didn't pass the gas to have backup heat, people relyed on it to have electricity. Whoever has the wood will be warmed up, but you must know that we still live in the 21st century and that this is inappropriate in Belgrade, and we can imagine what happens in other places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14838	Your question will be referred immediately to Minister Popovic and the Head of the EPS and you will receive an answer. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's MP Zeljko Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and the Serbian Veterans Movement, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16. The proposal for a law which reads as follows: "Under the term "maintaining the continuity of production in a privatisation entity" within the meaning of this Article, the provision in the contract on the sale of capital of specific sizes shall be made either after the engagement of the number of employees, capacity engagement or the physical volume of production in each month from the beginning of the date of entry into force of the contract". I just have to tell you that the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I will read to all MPs who have not read what the Government has responded to this amendment. ''The amendment is not accepted for the reason that, according to its content, there is no legal norm character, but rather a provision that should be defined by a contract to sell capital to a privatisation entity, which will be taken into account when concluding future sales contracts. ''I just want to tell you one thing, if the Government finds this amendment adequate and that it makes sense, and which has confirmed by its reply to my amendment, then I do not understand how the Legislative Committee could have written that this amendment is legal, because you still have to admit that the Legislative Committee is the one who considers that any amendment is legally possible, or whether it is in accordance with other laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think there's been a mistake here and it's an attempt by the government to avoid in an elegant way an obligation that would be created if this amendment were accepted and this provision was incorporated into the law. What does that mean? I will remind you of a privatisation that took place in Serbia, and these problems that arose during this privatisation, they would have been prevented if there were such a provision. It is a company called Zupa, which was privatised two or three years ago and produces chlorine used in water lines throughout Serbia. You know that we had a big problem, because this company is a producer of over 80% of the amount of chlorine needed in Serbia and that many water pipelines have run out of necessary raw materials to clean water, i.e. to create drinking water for our citizens. If we had such a provision in a contract that was concluded with Zupa, or with a privatisation entity, we could not have been able to stop the production of such important raw materials because of the problems that arise. We need to know that when many companies are privatised, one of the significant entities and the defining privatisation factors will be the market, i.e. the percentage of the market covering the company. So we need to know that there are companies in Serbia that specialize in producing those products that it uses, for example, JP Elektroprivreda, which is not produced by any other company, so it employs 100% of the market in our economy. If we privatise such entities, such companies, we may find that whoever made the privatisation suspends the production of this product and replaces this product from imports, that is, the production of one of their companies in another country, which will create a larger product, i.e. a higher profit. I really think that this amendment should be accepted, because this will make it impossible for all those who want to abuse the privatisation process for the purchase of the market, while shutting down production and the substitution of domestic production by importing this amendment will be disabled. That this is justifiable, says only the government's argument. I'd say so much about the amendment. However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity given to me by being able to speak without reporting to the Rules of Procedure on 225 and 226 to meet all citizens of Serbia and the MPs, and by meeting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly Mr Djelic, Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Rasim Ljajic. I would take advantage of the opportunity that Minister Dinkic is here, so he can pass on what I'm about to say to them. On Thursday, in Sombor, he committed suicide by a heavy wartime wartime invalid who is blind, which means 100% disability, only because he lost hope of being resolved the housing issue. Mr Dinkic, three or four months ago on a single project to address the problem of housing problems for wartime wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters, I informed the government, I informed the Deputy Prime Minister and these two ministers, whom I think should be the bearers of the idea that this problem should be resolved over the next two or three years. This kind of hopelessness, which these people have and that they're experiencing with the government's relationship to this population, is going to cause the development of something that nobody would really want, which is post-traumatic depression syndrome or, what most of you would understand, Vietnamese syndrome, or I don't know what other. Such diseases and diseases occur ten years after participating in the war, especially if one hopelessness prevails, if one complete apathy prevails among these people, because they cannot solve some basic problems. Please take advantage of your influence in the government, to start this issue and accept the project that the Association of Serbia's Military Disabilities through me has passed on to the government to solve the problem of 1,500 apartments for families of fallen fighters and wartime military people over the next three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14840	Thank you, Mr Vasilevich. The People's Messenger, Pastor Balint, has a word by the Rules of Procedure, and then the People's Messenger Laszlo Varga. National MP Rajko Baralic reported after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14841	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, five days ago, congratulating the glory of St. Nicholas, I sent an appeal to the president of the National Assembly, asking him on December 24th, on the Christmas day of the Gregorian calendar, the National Assembly is working until 15 o'clock, and the National Assembly is not working on December 25th. On behalf of the MPs of the SVM, I made one, in my view, constructive proposal, that the National Assembly, as the most representative body of the Republic of Serbia, should have the understanding of those MPs and citizens who celebrate Christmas on the Gregorian calendar, and I said that, unless our request was adopted by the president of the National Assembly, we would, in that case, be obstructing the work of the National Assembly with three MPs. I would like to inform you that we were prepared from the SVM to read the texts on Christmas today until 15:00, but we will not do it for three reasons: the first reason we do not want to abuse the holiday of Christmas, on the other hand, we never do obstruction in the National Assembly, and on the third hand, on Friday, I managed to reach one agreement with the president of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, that during today, the work of the National Assembly will take up to 15 hours. We find that acceptable. What we don't consider acceptable is that the National Assembly will work tomorrow, but we're not going to be obstructing, because we have an understanding of the work of the National Assembly, we know that a large number of laws should be passed this year. We simply don't want to cause obstruction for these reasons. I would like to say that it would be best if the proposal I made five days ago was adopted, that it would be good if the Assembly didn't work tomorrow, but tomorrow the National Assembly will be working and we have an understanding for it this year, but I would like to appeal to the president of the National Assembly that the National Assembly is not working for any major religious holiday. This country is multi-confessional and multinational, the National Assembly is the representative home of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and should not be working on either Christmas or Kurban Bayram, or any other holiday celebrated in the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to say that it was very irresponsible and unserious that the failed vote on the budget was planned for the day of Kurban Bayram, that it also shows the irresponsibility and unseriousness of the parties in power. I hope it never happens again in this National Assembly. Finally, I would like to congratulate Christmas on all the MPs, of course, all the citizens who celebrate Christmas on the Gregorian calendar, and I would like to congratulate Christmas and the President of the National Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, who is now celebrating Christmas in Subotica and since this country is multi-confessional and multinational, allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to say the following: Congratulations and Blessed Christmas I want all citizens, áldots békés karácsonyi ünnepet kívánok minden szerbiai pogárnak, and Vajdasági Magyar Szövetség nevetsében!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14842	As you said, today the Assembly will be working until 15.00 hours, and we will pass this on to the President of the National Assembly and by 15.00 hours all MPs will receive information about tomorrow's work day. Mr. Varga, come in. I'm just asking you to quote which member of the Rules of Procedure you're calling on.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14843	Article 104. Unfortunately, neither the MPs nor the festivals of national minorities are respected in the National Assembly. It's not just the MPs of national minorities, it's the other MPs. Otherwise, in order to characterise the fact that the president of the National Assembly announces that on Wednesday, it will be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Bill of Local Self-Government, one of the most important laws in every country in the world, and MPs will apparently get a few hours before the debate begins. I think it's scandalous and I don't think in this house, unfortunately, nothing works normally. In fact, everything goes according to the principle of blackmail and force, and for that, of course, you, primarily members of the parliamentary clubs of the ruling coalition, are guilty. This is the most inefficient assembly of the National Assembly since 2000. Let me remind you, in 2004, this assembly passed 43 new laws. In 2005 – 64 new laws, in 2006, 25 plus a new constitution, and this year we have passed 14 new laws. For this, I'm sure the citizens will make an account for someone. Mr. Pastor said we wouldn't obstruct the work of the National Assembly for several reasons. I want to add another reason. In fact, we do not want to give the ruling majority the opportunity to accuse us of such a disastrous effect by our inconclusive nature of the National Assembly, not to blame the members of the national minorities in this home. Now we will go home, we will not come tomorrow, but we will use every opportunity to say that even seven years after democratic changes in this country are simply citizens, members of national minorities, not considered equal citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14844	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Elvira Kovac has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14845	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, respected citizens, as you've heard from Mr. Pastor and Mr. Varga, the three MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union are here on Christmas Day. You heard last week's proposal from the head of the minority parliamentary group, when he suggested to the president of the National Assembly that we work part-time on this day so that anyone who celebrates Christmas on the Gregorian calendar would have a chance to get home on Christmas Eve. The second proposal was, since tomorrow is one of the greatest religious holidays of Christmas, that the National Assembly as a legislative body respects religious customs, respecting that holiday, that the National Assembly does not work. Unfortunately, for now, we still don't know, and more leads to tomorrow's National Assembly working. I would take this opportunity to congratulate first all of my people in Zrenjanin and all the respected viewers who celebrate on the Gregorian calendar of Christmas holidays. On the other hand, I would like to step up, to promise that we will really not use the possibility given to the Rules of Procedure after this, and we will not obstruct the work of the National Assembly, because we realize that very few days are left by the end of the year and that we have very important laws left to call local elections. I would like to emphasise the fact that we are a constructive opposition and that we have never really acted in such a way that we have obstructed the work of the Assembly, unlike some parties of the ruling coalition, personally, and SVM MPs believe that this only parliament where individual parties are sometimes obstructing the work of the Assembly. We are all aware, respected citizens have seen how much time was lost first around the formation of the government, after summer holidays, many vacations, and now the question is, we all need to agree that the holidays, like Christmas and the right that belongs to all members of the national minorities, are less important and that we should accept that we are in a hurry now. Let me, I don't want to overstep time, we really promised not to obstruct the work, that I too, in my native language, would congratulate the holiday of everyone -kedves Polgárok, Szerbia minden egyes pulgáak kellemes, áldott, békés karácsonyt kívánok. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14846	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. But before I move on to the reason why I report to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to support the SVM MPs, who were not only today, but also a few days ago warned the President of the Assembly on a Catholic Christmas and that it would be my turn for the Assembly to sort of adjust its work to this great holiday. I'm reporting for other reasons. I would like to warn the ruling coalition that, as far as the SRS is concerned, it is quite clear that they are re-entering the trade process, and that trade should not be traded, which is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. I would like to inform MPs that Tomislav Nikolic has agreed with Oliver Dulic and asked him to submit a report to the Serbian Parliament on the course of the negotiations immediately after the end of the UN Security Council meeting and that the Assembly, based on all this information, would receive from the Prime Minister, is to bring a new resolution, which was in some way announced in the paper. We asked that this session be held today, but President Dulic asked that the session be held on Wednesday, that the Prime Minister, our negotiating team, that MPs will receive full information, and among other things we had the opportunity to read in the paper that such a resolution is being prepared and certain signals are being sent to another coalition partner, i.e. DS. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear from the President of the Assembly that he is planning that session for 29 on Friday, practically at the time of the start of the New Year's holidays, when it ends all and until the third, until it begins with the work of the Serbian Parliament, we will have no conclusion, or any resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. We're discussing here, I'm not going to say it's irrelevant laws, but laws that are more or less prone to elections and individual parties trying to take advantage of the position in power, so they can't get their hands on the censorship. Therefore, we warn the ruling coalition that as soon as you agree, that is your right, we will not go into it, but we will not allow you to trade the interests of the Serbian state and the interests of Serbian citizens. We want a debate in Serbia's parliament on the issue of the Security Council debate and the Serbian Parliament to adopt a new resolution that would oblige all state leaders to act on the basis of this resolution when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. If you do not agree by Wednesday and unless the debate on the situation on Kosovo and Metohija begins on Wednesday, the Serbian Radical Party will enter parliament's obstruction and we will do nothing else until we receive a report from the SB and we receive a motion for a resolution, or we will draw up the proposal from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14848	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Zvonimir Stević, has the word. Parliament's president is not in the assembly this morning. I'll let him know about this. Just so there is no confusion in the media, Mr. Todorovic, the session is announced for 28. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is Rules of Procedure 225, 226. Mr. Chairman, it is clear to us in Kosovo and Metohija, and it has been clear to us all along since 2000, that we are a polygon for political manipulation; we understand that the parties of the ruling and presidential candidates care, when it comes to Cosmett, to trade and get some political points. The appointment of a session of the Serbian Parliament on Kosovo and Metohija is in the shadow of presidential candidates' election campaigns Friday. It's the order, the form, we'll meet, we'll hold sessions one day, and no one cares about the fate of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, not even this state. What gives you the right to tell you in the first place that your citizen is in the first place a man? Do you know, gentlemen, do presidential candidates know that Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija and other non-Albanian members? No electricity, no water, no right to freedom of movement, no jobs, no right to live, and apparently you care about Kosovo and Metohija. I've been asking a number of questions for two or three months, and I've come to the phone about it. I received an answer to the parliamentary question from the minister of justice, and my question was - will the Constitutional Court and how will it protect the fundamental constitutional rights of citizens and national minorities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and by which law and order will the citizens of Serbian nationality, Kosovo and Metohija be punished for traffic violations as foreign citizens? In response, the minister of justice says: Article 170. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that a constitutional appeal may be made against individual acts or various state bodies or organisations entrusted with public authority, which are injured or exhausted or are not provided for other remedies for their protection. Under that provision, the Constitution has no legal interference that citizens from the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija submit a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court if they are violated by human or minority rights by individual acts or actions of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, or organisations entrusted with public authority. On the grounds of questions relating to the punishment for the traffic violation of citizens of Serbian nationality, the people of Kosovo and Metohija, we point out that those citizens are being punished in the same manner as other citizens of the Republic of Serbia for traffic violations, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Infringements. That's not controversial. I'm not happy with the answer. I just asked a question. We are citizens and citizens of the Serbian state and are in the law that we are equal citizens with all citizens of the Serbian state, but in the procedure at the checkpoints, in Merdar, at the Mines, in the Morav area there, citizens of Serbian nationality are punished by an urgent procedure. I'm talking about breaking the law, and that's why I'm asking an additional question to the Minister of Justice, information, how many such violations have been made so far? I want the public here to know that you will stop manipulating the fate of the Serbian people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I repeat again, while the Serbs are in the space of Kosovo and Metohija will be the Republic of Serbia. Both this Serbia and presidential candidates owe a lot to these Serbs, but nothing makes a day better than 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14850	Thank you, Mr. Stevic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14851	I've been looking for the Rules of Procedure, but it's not a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14852	I'm sorry. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14853	I warn the DSS, given that I have heard from Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic and said he is willing to schedule a session Wednesday, but that he has information from Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and Minister for Kosovo and Mr Samardzic's Metohija that they are not able to be in the Serbian Parliament on Wednesday and attend the debate. That reason will never stop us from doing what we think we should do. What my predecessor presented is the best evidence that the ruling coalition is trading with Kosovo and Metohija. Although I asked a question more than 20 days ago, whether the Prime Minister has been informed that his vice president in Brussels has signed an Agreement on Co-operation and Association, where the agreement is decidedly said to be signing part of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, no answer has arrived today, even though it must arrive within eight days according to the Rules of Procedure. It is the best evidence that behind the backs of Serbian citizens, processes take place behind the back of the assembly that take Kosovo and Metohija out of Serbia. You will bring us into a situation where you will only do and say what the president of Serbia already said in January 2007, upon coming from America, he said -- Kosovo and Metohija's independence is reality. And you do everything you can to make this reality certain. You deceive Serbian citizens, trying to present that you are allegedly concerned about the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, that this is the most important thing for you, and this example of treating the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija as foreigners best talks about your relationship and what is being prepared for Kosovo and Metohija. I warn you again, when it comes to the SRS, when it comes to citizens of Serbia, no deal of yours will pass. This political trade in our country, our citizens, will not get green light either in Serbia's parliament or from Serbian citizens. You play with things that can be extremely serious and dangerous. Instead of getting ready to respond to all the challenges that await us, you're trying to sniff out what's really going on under the grain and what you're doing with the so-called. to the international community.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14854	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Milisav Petronijevic asked for the word. The overall remaining time for the Socialist Party of Serbia is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the amendment which, on behalf of the SPS, was submitted by our colleague Zeljko Vasiljevic, on behalf of the SPS, was in fact the 4th Amendment of the Parliamentary Group to Article 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act. It's a package of amendments we've submitted, considering that it's a very important issue. We are at the beginning of this debate instructing the essence and importance of the privatisation process itself, which among citizens looks quite different from what the ruling majority represents, believing that the key issues are there and the subject of privatisation, and the subject of sales, and this is now on the agenda, and this is the content of the contract, as well as the next member, where we also have amendments, and these are the conditions under which sales can be broken or sales contracts should be terminated. To remind myself, these four amendments relating to Article 16 constitute one continent and refer to what Mr Zeljko Vasiljevic here explained, that we believe that, more precisely under the notion of maintaining the continuity of production, we need to specify the exact size, employment of employees, capacity, physical production, the obligation to continue production. What's the point of privatisation for us? The point of privatisation is that the company that is privatized continues to work, to get investments, to start production, to save employees, not to fire them. The second amendment relating to this article refers to our request, and this is the union's request, that the contract on the sale of capital be delivered to both the representative union and the privatisation entity, and also within the framework of the branch. Why? The unions don't know the contents, they can't track it. Over 50%, according to union research, they don't know what to follow. Our third amendment relating to the content of the contract, we believe that it must find places in the contract on selling sentences – that the customer undertakes to respect the rights of employees established by collective contract, labour law and labour contract, deadline for maintaining the continuity of production, etc. I'll discuss it in more detail later. The fourth amendment, which we also consider important, the content of the social programme in resolving the staff issue is determined by an agreement between the union of branches at the level of the Republic and the Privatisation Agency. It's a package of amendments that we think should find a place in the bill, for the simple reason that they protect employees' rights. We have observed this whole law primarily from an angle of respect for the rights of employees, i.e. protection of the rights of employees. Of course, in agreement with the union, the amendments they proposed we accepted and submitted them here on behalf of them. Why do we think that? We consider it a social programme, the social programme is in itself social, so it should be determined by social partners, not exclusively by the Privatisation Agency. What's so ugly about that? That's even necessary, necessarily. What's going on? The Privatisation Agency shall mainly state in the contract one general principle clause that law, rights, etc. and nothing more will be respected. Or that workers won't be fired for a year, which means they can go beyond that, etc. Why is this so important? It is very important that what is left to privatize, not to be a burden on only those who are employed, because they are at least guilty that companies are in such a state. Whoever else is guilty, the employees aren't. For these reasons, we believe that it must find places in the content of the contract and the part that speaks of respect for laws, collective agreements, workers' rights, etc. Because the violation of workers' rights, according to trade union research, is in more than 55% of privatised enterprises. It's a one-time number. One is a violation of the rights of workers, and the other is the dismissal of workers, another is a major problem. For each other, there must be room in the contract, that the employer must respect those rights, and also later, you will see when he is a member of 17, we ask that it be a break-up condition, therefore, on the one hand, the obligation to respect, as well as the other, if he does not respect that as a condition for the termination of the contract. What's going on? It happens that contracts are not respected, collective agreements are not respected, profits are not paid or paid late for several months, night, overtime is not paid, contracted labour prices are not respected, etc. Then, the rights of employees and unions are drastically violated. They don't allow unions to work in privatized businesses. No earnings are paid for months, no social security contributions are paid, no production is carried out, employees are referred to unpaid leave or paid leave with reduced earnings, no overtime is paid, an increase in earnings based on night work or work on shifts, unreserved reduced earnings or not paid even minimum earnings, no regression for vacations, food fees, no compensation for transport costs and no more. All of this confirms that in fact, the biggest losers in this privatisation process are employed. If that's the case, privatisation can't be successful. It has no aim only to simply change the owner's company, but to change the owner in a way that enables further production, to enable new investments, to allow new employment, rather than to fire existing ones. We have provided a number of examples here, such as “one. ” May" Raška, skin industry, furs and confections VIK Valjevo, Zorka plant protection, Milkara Pirot, Drina Loznica, Armenian fruit processing plant, Hydrotechnics Belgrade, are all companies with hundreds of employees. That is why we believe that first in the contract they need to find specific issues, precise questions, the rights of the employees I spoke about, and later we will see when the amendment under Article 17 is debated, we ask that they be break-up conditions if they are not respected. For this reason, we urge the MPs to vote on all four amendments in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14856	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Nemanja Sarovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14857	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported in accordance with Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure and I'll quote them. Article 225 reads: “The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. For the purpose of more complete communication to Members of the public, official publications, information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the sittings and on other issues from the section of the National Assembly shall be regularly provided." Article 226 reads: “The MP has the right to request clarifications and notifications from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on matters covered by his rights and duties, which he needs in order to carry out the function of the MP. “ So what is it? Please, Mr. Beard, don't count on me this time I spent quoting. So, we are witnessing that during the previous days in Serbia, a campaign that allegedly banned certain concerts, media delusions, lies that are being placed by TV B 92, reportedly the president of the municipality, otherwise the Serbian Radical, Srdja Komazec, banned the concert by Djordž Balasevic. What is it, in fact, and what is it, we saw a few days after the campaign, when Djordje Balasevic appeared at the pre-election rally of Boris Tadic. It is that Gjorge Balašević came, but the hall was half empty. What's the point? Can any of you, any of you with B 92 or any of the MPs or officials of DS, show any paper that Srja Komazec has banned from holding that concert? Of course he can't, because there's no such thing as paper because it's just a lie of fiction. I have brought a document from which citizens can also see the Democrats prohibit the promotion of books. The promotions of SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj's books have already been banned twice in the Municipality of Stari Grad, they have already been banned twice in the Municipality of Vračar. Once, even in Vračar municipality, you gathered your activists in an attempt to provoke the incident and to physically deal with those who came to the promotion of Dr Vojislav Seselj's book. Unlike the lies you're making, we have a document, here's Branimir Kuzmanovic's signature, the president of Vračar Municipality, here's the seal of Vračar municipality, so this is an official document. Watch out for what that "intellectual gromada" from DScas. It is addressed - Vračar Municipality Committee, V.d. President Dusan Stupar says, "Mr Stupar, I have received your memo requesting the use of the great Hall of Vračar City, in order to promote the book of Vojislav Seselj. Since you're... '', it would be right to say ''because', but it doesn't matter, it's still an 'intellectual gromada' from DS, 'that the title of the book can identify its theme, and it's a book of 'Roman Catholic Crime Project of an artificial Croatian nation', about the capital science work of Vojislav Seselj, which is the fruit of long-term work and that book was not created on the basis of some beautiful wishes or fiction, but it quotes historical documents of various authors, Western European authors and even Croatians. So, it's a scientific work that you couldn't possibly find a single objection to, to science based on, to find. So, he says, ''I hereby inform you that Vračar City Municipality will not be your accomplice, nor an accomplice to the crime of Article 317. A criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, titled "Invoking national, racial and religious hatred and impatience." The new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 49, prohibits and punishes every challenge and encouragement of racial, national, religious or other inequality, hatred and intolerance." (Chairman: Time, Mr. Sarovic. ) "According to the Constitution, the illegal operation of political parties is aimed at causing racial, national and religious hatred." Imagine you men, this is, unfortunately, the president of Vračar City, the central Belgrade municipality, who didn't even look at the book, but says "based on the title" to him it's clear what it's about. What a man would read a book, he saw a title, and that's enough for him. (President: Thank you, Mr. Sarovic.) I'm finishing up, Mr. Beard, please, so I don't answer again, to finish this, it's extremely important. So he recognized the president of Vracar municipality, Branimir Kuzmanovic, that the book, the scientific work, committed a criminal act of causing national, racial and religious hatred. I agree. (Chairman: Please finish.) ) ''Also, the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 222, requires us to report criminal acts that are prosecuted by official duty. I therefore inform you at this time that I have sent criminal charges to the competent public prosecutor's office and that a large hall of SO Vračar will not be given to the use of the SRS, the Vračar Municipal Committee, for the purpose of encouraging national, racial, religious hatred and impatience, neither on 15 July 2007 nor in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14858	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. You'll get back to me. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14859	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Article 27, authority of the President of the National Assembly. I think it's high time the president of the National Assembly stopped distracting both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. What makes me say that? By means of the means of information, we, as MPs, and all citizens, find out what will happen in this House. Thus, through information funds, we learned that Wednesday and Thursday should be on the agenda of laws that should precede local elections, and Friday's debate on Kosovo and Metohija. It's the height of cynicism and irresponsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda, we have a debate on amendments to seven laws: privatisation, free shares, the budgetary system, income tax on citizens, corporate income tax, administrative taxes and public roads. That's seven laws. How many days does it take to complete a debate on these amendments? That's one. Under two, the ruling coalition cannot agree on a budget vote, and the debate is over. Serbia did not bring the budget for next year. Under three, imagine how much you care about Kosovo and Metohija! By the way, the order is being set for a day of debate on Kosovo and Metohija. It's an insult. Like, one day enough about that subject. The most insignificant law is being discussed for days, and Kosovo and Metohija - we will all end this nicely in one day. Finally, four laws should be passed: local self-government, local elections, territorial organisation and the city of Belgrade. Let's see how this alchemist, named Oliver Dulic, will put it on the agenda, and there is no proposal, has not even been through the boards, has not arrived at the draft of these laws in the Assembly, to put it on the agenda on Wednesday and Thursday, to vote it out and to end it. Let's be objective and honest. What's a man doing? He's getting back to him. Dulic reports he will do it on Wednesday and Thursday, as someone estimated it to be an interest in someone's party. That's rude. That's a kind word. I'd like Oliver Dulic to come, and then I'll tell him a lot of things about irresponsibility and the Pandan of irresponsibility. Man, if you can't or can't do your job, that's what I told the president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, the month and a few days are gone by the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Let's get him out of here. We don't need him. If he does not now occupy this committee of minors every day, what will we do after 6th or I do not know which February, when the decision by the United States and EU Kosovo is declared an independent state. So I'm calling for responsibility, and I said, if you don't, you can't, or you can't do your job, resign, because there's no people anywhere in this place, no citizens, no place in their lives, and life is the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14860	Thank you, Mr. Batic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zvonko Mihajlovic, then MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who lives in KIM, I was terribly concerned about the information I just received, that there would be no debate on the report submitted in the Security Council on the completion of the KIM status negotiation process. In the last half hour, since the Kim theme dominates, I have received ten phone calls and each ends with a question - is it possible that people who exercise power in Serbia are so arrogantly and irresponsiblely treating us as cosmet Serbs? In fact, the Cosmetic Serbs will welcome both this Christmas and this New Year in the dark, just as they were welcomed last year and before, and ever since 1999, since the occupation. No one here remembers to mention the subject. On the other hand, there is a debate on privatisation on the agenda. No one from the top of the government has come out to say that the state of Serbia has substantial assets on KIM, which is being robbed and kidnapped. Whether there are mechanisms to prevent this state and social property from being robbed by KIM. I claim responsibly that it can be prevented, and the best example for that is the citizens themselves who live downstairs, who organize themselves, and manage to protect that property as much as possible. The sale of Serbian countries and Serbian properties continues. The Cosmetic Serbs are affected by apathy, uncertainty, they don't know what they're going to do or how they're going to do it. Every day, some deadlines are mentioned to save their fate. No one here finds fit to come down among the Cosmetic Serbs, to encourage them, not just the Cosmetic Serbs, but other non-Albanians who live hard down there. With you government division, party interests are your first priority, and we don't care about you. I join the appeal that as soon as possible, if a session dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija cannot be held, then the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija is scheduled and that this committee is more frequent and working, so as not to reach some solutions. Once again, on behalf of the Cosmetic Serbs and other non-Albanians, I urge you to schedule a session dedicated to KIM as soon as possible and to consider yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14862	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. After Mr. Sarovic, we will take a 15-minute break, because the issue of the session and the date of the appointment of the session with the Kosovo topic, since the president of the assembly is not here, is mentioned repeatedly, to consult with the president of the assembly, so that MPs get the right information. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14863	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I really expected, after what I read, a fierce reaction by DS representatives to come out and say - what you read, Mr. Sarovic, is not true, it is a falsification, it is not the signature of the president of Vrachar Branimir Kuzmanovic municipality, it is not the seal of the president of the municipality, we did not prohibit the promotion of Dr. Vojislav Seselj's book "Roman Catholic Crime Project of an artificial Croatian nation" because we do not like the title. As you have seen, the reaction is completely lagging behind, which means that DS gentlemen agree entirely with what Mr Branimir Kuzmanovic wrote and means that this is the ideology of DS. So they're not against the ban on books, they're not against the ban on shows, they're not against the ban on political parties of all, they're just for individuals. When they forbid Democrats, they're democratic bans, it's justified, but on the other hand, we'll lie, we'll manipulate, we'll talk about how something forbids us, but we'll never bring out the paper for the assembly pay phone and confirm what it's really about. What I do not understand is what Mr Kuzmanovic says - I am informing you that I have sent a criminal report to the competent public prosecutor's office, but he did not tell us who he was up against. Is it against Mr. Stupar, who asked permission to promote this book, is it against the title of the book? I don't believe it's against the book itself, because Mr. Kuzmanovic didn't even read the book. Let's see who's been charged. On this occasion, I ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic is here at the end of his career, so we no longer have to remember, I ask that he deliver to all the MPs a copy of that criminal application. We have the right to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I tried as an ordinary citizen and as a folk MP to get to that criminal report, we went to the municipal public prosecutor's office and to the district public prosecutor's office, we couldn't find her. I think that criminal application is extremely valuable if it's really written, because it's really going to enter the anthology of human nonsense, I believe it would be an exceptional example in law school, maybe not in law school, but in law school, an example of how it shouldn't work. It's possible there's another thing. It is possible that it is false, it is possible that Mr Kuzmanovic did not file a report, but that it is just another DS fraud. We ask for a precise answer from Mr Petrovic, whether a criminal complaint has been filed by the president of Vračar Municipality Branimir Kuzmanovic; if it is, please provide us, if it is not, with an official notice that there is no such application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14864	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. For consultation with the President of the Assembly, we'll take a 15-minute break. After that, we continue our work. [[After break – 12.10]] We can keep working. The consultations that we had with the heads of Parliament clubs have just been completed and agreed on, since it has been asked several times during the afternoon session whether the session with the Kosovo and Metohija resolution will be scheduled for Wednesday or Friday, Parliament Speaker Mr Oliver Dulic has been informed of this, and today the meetings of Ministers for Kosovo and Metohija with parliamentary clubs on the alignment of the text of the resolution will begin with the exact term of the session, and the President of the National Assembly will inform all MPs by 15.00 hours. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, now you can best see what happens when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. It seems we are ahead of the possibility that the ruling coalition is misleading us in the most difficult way possible with the most difficult possible consequences. The main problem is the agreement between coalition partners, between DS and DSS. The resolution, which should be or which is proposed, whether Serbia will join the European Union with Kosovo and Metohija or without Kosovo and Metohija, is one or the main problem. Another problem is whether the resolution will be accepted to ratify or sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which precisely states that part of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija is signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which speaks of fraud, deception and MPs from the Serbian and Serbian parliamentarians. The Italian parliament reached a resolution ten to fifteen days ago on the Kosovo and Metohija issue, and precisely in the resolution, it says that violence against Serbia cannot be committed and that Kosovo and Metohija cannot be independent. The Romanian parliament also brought resolution, where it is precisely said that Kosovo and Metohija cannot be independent. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we still haven't adopted the resolution, we don't have a motion for that resolution, because the difference in the ruling coalition, the difference between the views some parties are publicly arguing for, and what they're going to say we're going to see, is that there's a big con in the work when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. We have drawn attention to you that this fraud will not in any way go away, either in the Serbian parliament or with Serbian citizens, but will definitely bring some things down. What you are trying to do, in every way possible, to postpone, so that only on Friday, when the work for 2007 is practically completed, put on the agenda a matter of resolution for Kosovo and Metohija, says how you relate when it comes to the state of Serbia, when it comes to citizens of Serbia. This is one of the most difficult things that has happened to us, that the power of the entire, not only one party in power, but all parties in power, accept a imposed solution by the United States and the EU, only for the sake of political interests in the public, and you are essentially looking at how you're going to wind up in some cellophane that Serbian citizens are about to swallow. We warn you, whatever you're proposing to that resolution, whether or not it's agreed, that's your problem, that's not the problem of this assembly, that's not the problem of the citizens of Serbia, our problem is that we want to know, to tell us what you want, so that we can tell you what needs to be done. We're not giving that up. We expect to report on Wednesday on the Serbian Parliament's agenda for the Security Council's negotiations and expect to receive the motion for a resolution today, so that the citizens of Serbia are no longer deceived.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14867	People's MPplatimir Stevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14868	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Chairman, the current state and position of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, following failed and failed negotiations on the future status of the southern Serbian province and frequent hints of a simple declaration of Kosovo's independence, are dramatic. The Socialist Party of Serbia has estimated that today's Serbia is in a serious crisis that could jeopardise national and state interest. That is why we Socialists are asking for the urgent appointment of a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that will be dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the establishment of a clear national strategy on the matter. The session should symbolize the unity of all relevant political actors in Serbia's political scene on the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, not to be organised to conduct a pre-election campaign of individual presidential candidates, or to reflect conflict and chaos within the ruling coalition. It has also been estimated that such a ruling coalition at a time like this poses the greatest danger to Serbia's national and state interests and that it is necessary to form a government of national unity. On the basis of everything that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija and that Serbs live in the dark for days, and that I ask the question for the third time, not to the ministry, but to the government and this assembly should be in a permanent session to ensure the normal life and life of a decent man in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, we are aware and confident of the ruling coalition that Kosovo and Metohija are no longer the issue of all issues, that it is no longer the most important national and state interest of Kosovo and Metohija, the issue is a pre-election campaign and presidential elections. I ask the candidates for president, if this is true that some unilateral independence, coordinated independence, gentlemen, the president who is elected has a constitutional obligation to protect the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, is left with nothing but either to resign or to defend Serbia's state with all means. This is due to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, due to the state of Serbia, that these elections were unnecessary and that this is political marketing and another fraud by citizens of the Serbian state, especially the people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14869	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I have to report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225 and 226, because there's something going on in the City Assembly again that just isn't to believe that it can happen, but what to do. The majority did not seem to have learned a lesson from the previous trip, when in an unconstitutional, illegal and way past the Rules of Procedure they elected president and vice president of the Assembly. Today they are trying to adopt the budget of the City Assembly, although no republican budget has been adopted. We're trying to reason with them, but there seems to be no argument, nothing more. The Belgrade City Assembly, which can adopt its budget only after the adoption of the republican budget, regardless of our warnings, of the facts they speak, because you have a budget calendar, article 14, which has set deadlines and how it can be done, is simply of no interest to you. You've overcome Joseph Broz, he's said in some cases, extreme, you shouldn't stick to the law as a drunk float, but you don't stick to the law anywhere. You're not interested in anything at all. You guys, you just want to do what allows you to adopt a budget that you'll be able to abuse for the presidential campaign, and that's the biggest problem. We will try, if you do, to explain to you why you are adopting the budget of the city of Belgrade today, which is why it is a huge item, i.e. a huge amount of money with which it has the right to dispose of V.D. The mayor, without having to make a decision about it, because you expect to finance the Boris Tadic campaign, or maybe buy him an apartment, since his father expressed concern, or the fact that Boris Tadic will lose in the elections, so who do you say you provide him now while you still can. I warn you, if you adopt today's budget in the Belgrade City Assembly, we will sue that a session of the Legislative Committee, the Finance Committee, will be scheduled to make a decision, that is, to give its opinion, but I warn you, do not violate the law, you are not above the law, your interests are not above the interest of the law, or the citizens of Serbia. Why are you doing this? Is it because you don't have the money, as much money as you predicted for the Boris Tadic campaign? What's the other reason? You have a simple opportunity to make a decision on temporary funding. Why are you breaking the law? How long do you think you're breaking the law? You think the way you came to power you can extend it indefinitely. We warn you not to do so, keep those of you in the Belgrade City Assembly from breaking the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14871	The word is made by the MP Dragoljub Anastasovski, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then by the MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and after several calls from citizens on the left bank of the Danube, I had to answer and see, because in the end, I don't understand why there's a constant power outage of people on the left bank of the Danube either. What's the matter? Do you need money on this side of the campaign, or is it something else? If you need to boost the current, make it stronger, let anything be done. We have over 100,000 inhabitants on the left bank of the Danube. Of those 100,000, 90% are heating up on electricity and solid fuel. They have a catastrophic situation when the power goes out. There's nothing to do at all, people can't get out of their apartments, and there's a huge number of small children, so these people in charge of distribution take a lot more account, not a little more, but a lot more account of the left bank of the Danube, because there's a really alarming situation. People freeze, they can't even go to their jobs, they can't do anything without electricity. As far as Electrodistribution itself is concerned, electricity bills are astronomical. Last month I had an astronomical electricity bill, but I paid for it. I don't know how these other people are gonna pay those bills, and normally they're gonna come cut their electricity, and then there's just gonna be trouble. So I would ask the Power Department to see what's going on and that's why the power's going out, because it's a multi-hour power outage on the left bank, so it explains to people why it's happening and why it's happening exclusively on the left bank of the Danube.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14873	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14874	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Article 27. I think it is clear to all of us that the continuation of the Assembly session and the debate on amendments makes no sense, that we are not fooling ourselves and that we are not playing with the Supreme Legislative Body, when in this situation and in these dramatic circumstances there is simply no minimum possibility of discussing amendments to some of the laws. That is why it is urgent to hold a session with the President of Parliament and try to do two things these days until the New Year: that if the ruling coalition can agree on this, the budget will be voted on and resolution and debate on Kosovo and Metohija will be found on the agenda. Everything else is absolutely illusory. It opens up a series of questions. No more than a month of session of the KIM Committee, no debate on KIM, no resolution has been announced that no one has seen. I guess everyone should work closely and point out the text of that resolution, announces the recognition of KIM independence for February 6th, and then listen to the foreign minister last night on a TV show, a man like Alice in Wonderland, and we all see what's going on. Condoleezza Rice says, the EU says, has reached an agreement, will recognise in early February, as soon as the presidential runoff passes, independent Kosovo. The foreign minister says, talks continue, everything is wonderful and wonderful, for us to take Kosovo, my mother won't. You see, a man should be sent somewhere to see his business ability, as if the whole nation was mentally retarded, and the birds on the branch are clear what's going on. Simply, people live in another virtual world, unreal. Therefore, the recognition of KIM is announced, and then the question of signing the Association and Stabilisation Agreement is raised, as one of the steps towards European integration, who will, who will. And we have presidential elections and more local elections to announce. A presidential candidate within the ruling coalition is an imperative for him to be president, Europe and so on mentioning Kosovo. The second part of the ruling coalition is exclusively Europe and will support the first presidential candidate. The second part again of the ruling co-habitation and coalition authorities: Kosovo or nothing. It's Kostunica and Velya. Fourth, this part of the opposition, Kosovo and the president again, and then this part of the opposition, Kosovo or nothing. One question, where are the people, where are the citizens, because they're all territory and power. Where's the people? Where are the citizens? Where's life? That's what I'm telling you, as DHSS MP, because life is the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14875	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14876	No, replica, I apologize, since we have been mentioned about the problem of Kosovo and Metohija and what the SRS is looking for. Mr Batic, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the SRS is concerned, we are never going to put Kosovo and Metohija or state and national interests below party interests, we have never done that. There will always be state and national interests in the first place. The presidential elections with Kosovo and Metohija have nothing to do with it. This is about one thing, to hear the citizens of Serbia, to hear us, for what anyone stands for in the ruling coalition. Do they advocate comprehensive Serbia or not? If they are pushing for a comprehensive Serbia, can we sign a Stabilisation and Association Treaty? Because that contract means that only part of Serbia, without Kosovo and Metohija, is signed. I call on the DSS, Vojislav Kostunica, to make precise statements on whether the DSS advocates a comprehensive Serbia, with Kosovo and Metohija in all variants. He can't get around here a little bit, and he can't get around here a little bit. When the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is, then part of Serbia can go without Kosovo and Metohija. When it comes to agreeing with a coalition partner to introduce Serbia's citizens as a patriotic party, which allegedly works in the interests of citizens and the state of Serbia, then ask the DS to plead and say in Europe only Kosovo and Metohija can. We want every political party, and especially political parties from the ruling coalition, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, to clearly state what they stand for. We will not and do not allow the citizens of Serbia to deceive, deceive the Serbian Parliament. We're looking for what we're entitled to, to get accurate information, what people are up for. Are you for Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija or not? Let's see if this presidential election is behind a deal with the EU, with the Americans. Delay now the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija to be elected Boris Tadic, for the award we will not object when you take away Kosovo and Metohija, because Sutanovac has already announced, there is no intervention, the military will not react, so that before 15 days ago, Shule will wear uniforms, military boots and minors to fight in Kosovo, Vuk Jeremic also, Boris Tadic. What do you think? Who do you think you're dealing with? That they're people who can't add two and two? Who doesn't know what's really going on? The act is the biggest possible fraud, which is the sale of Kosovo and Metohija, for cheap party and political interests, to win the presidential election by Boris Tadic, and for the DSS to come out as a party fighting for state and national interests. We won't let you do that. We want to drive you out into the open and tell the citizens of Serbia what you stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14877	The word is made by MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14878	I agree with Mr. Todorovic, in this part, that it is a priority for the ruling coalition to declare itself. It was not my goal to analyse the policy and the SRS programme, although I will remind you that you had one turn, one salty mortal, when you left the government for the Kumanov Agreement and said - if you set foot on the side of the boot on Kosovo and Metohija you will never set foot in the government again, so you came to the government, etc. It's history, it's past, it can be analyzed in different ways. As DHSS MP, I'm interested in the future. Indeed, whether this government or the ruling coalition will succeed, as it once did in that regime, to lose everything. We're just looking for an answer. Remember plan Z-4, which was a phenomenal offer, it was a bingo win, but because of the passion, because of the arrogance, because of the madness, it was a missed opportunity for Serbs who lived in Croatia and that's true. Projects or proposals by group G-8, Contact Group, including negotiations, Rambuje, were all better than this now. Kuman's and capitulation followed, and now it's a definitive defeat and a definitive capitulation. I would like to say one more thing, regardless of the moment when the EU and the United States recognise Kosovo's independence, whoever is in the position of Serbian president and prime minister, whatever it is called, must resign at the same time. If you promise - Kosovo will remain forever ours, and it will no longer be ours, then you are either a fraud or as a responsible man leaving, not because you are subjectively guilty, but on the principle of objective responsibility. It happened at that moment that this evil happened, like a storm, like an avalanche, like a verse, like a tsunami. You are at that moment in office, as an honorable man, resigning. I find the fight completely illusory for the post of Serbian President who, if declared independent after the election, will be the president of a country that loses 15% of its territory. Then what's the future? Whether Serbia that will lose Kosovo and lose access to European integration and move on, we heard that wisdom last night in a TV show, in which Mrs Vesna Pesic was brilliant, that she has who we represent and who is on our side - China, India, Indonesia, South Africa, Mongolia, Cuba. Go over there, and hang out with them, and make a coalition with them. Don't talk about the EU. And that's the solution. Some here cheer the Kremlin clock, they're intonated by the Russian anthem... (President: Thank you, Mr. Batic. ) Please go with them, but tell them honestly: we will never be in the EU, and that is the answer. Citizens must know what awaits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14880	The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic, a replica, and a National MP Rajko Baralic according to the Rules of Procedure, then a National MP, Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the SRS has left the government of the Republic of Serbia because of the signing of the Kuman Agreement. That's the facts. Serbian citizens remember the debate in the Serbian Parliament where representatives, or MPs of the SRS, very precisely presented the order of events that will take place at the moment when we agree to blackmail and when we agree to Marty Ahtisaari's plan. There's no dilemma. The agreement was supported by the SPS, JUL, SPO and you who were not in parliament. It simply was not possible to live off the praises that you were referring to America, Europe, the UN and that it was a salvation for Serbia. It is true that we have entered a reconstructed government and that we have entered the federal government because the country has been destroyed, because at that moment, the state, without a strong and stable government, would experience a disastrous fate. And today, we would swim across the Danube and across Morava to cross it. What did you do from the moment you came to power? What did you build from what was destroyed in the 99s bombing? These attitudes that you make here are completely consistent with the attitudes we hear from Americans, the West, various NGOs. It's all over, Kosovo you've lost. Why unnecessarily invest your strength in when you're going to lose anyway? Everything is groundless, fine, agree to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija and everything will be fine. The only question is who and for what reasons, what are the initiatives you stand for? We left you at the end of the line with Resolution 1244. What did you do about Resolution 1244? Did you manage to achieve one single point from that 1244 resolution? You, who have brought Americans and the West to power, your friends, said that the problem is only in power -- democratic power will solve the problem. The democratic government in Belgrade, with democratic authority in Podgorica, has lost everything. You lost the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, you created a state union between Serbia and Montenegro. You lost her, too. You confessed to a referendum in Montenegro, which was completely falsified. You're all the same to me - DOS in one form or another. I don't care about that at all. You've done everything possible to get Serbia into this situation. What is true, the tsunami or flood that hit Serbia, took place on October 5th. That's what hit Serbia the hardest. That's why we're in this situation that we're in. What kind of army did we leave you in '99 or 2000? What do we have now? He washes diapers and cleans in circles and some facilities? As soon as you can boast? The number of destroyed tanks that were soaked in Smedereva. You can't buy a quarter of one for all those you've drowned. How many missiles did you destroy? What have you done so far? You've done everything you've been instructed to bring the country into this situation where it is now, so we can't do anything. That's the problem the state of Serbia faced when you came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14882	Dear People's MPs, we agreed at the meeting of the heads of Parliament to work on the amendments by 15.00 hours. Please, in accordance with that agreement, and all the heads of the parliamentary groups were present, so let's do it. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14883	Mr. Albianic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to speak on the subject. If the deal is respected, then the SPS will respect it and we will work on the amendments in such a way as to make it possible for this to end, and if not, then we cannot give you that time. I'd like to make a deal with you about that. A meeting was held with Vice-President Obradovic, representatives of all parties attended. What Mr. Obradovic said here reflected more or less the attitude of those present. So, to remind you, one session with a dozen agenda points is under way, amendments to the budget system, free action, roads, tax laws, taxes, etc. There's a budget vote coming up, two new sessions coming up, if we understand what's going on here. So, one is about Kosovo and Metohija, and the other is about a set of laws in the area of local self-government so that local elections can be discussed, in accordance with the Constitutional Law, or in accordance with the Constitution. So nine and a half thousand budget users -- both direct and indirect, expect budgets, local self-governments and cities to break laws, adopt the budget before the republican budget is adopted. Several million citizens expect different needs to be served on the basis of a decision, i.e. a budget vote. We're at the very beginning of the election campaign. We are at the very end of working in parliament for 2007. I would like to remind you that the 29th session is due to expire, which is currently under way, and unless the laws on the agenda are passed, it's as if we haven't even discussed them. So, I'm just asking that we know what we're talking about, we want to honor the agreement, it's just important that we know how others do it. So, we're not answering the Rules of Procedure until 15.00 hours today. If the amendments are discussed, we will report to the amendments, to explain their essence elementically, and if not, we will assess how we will behave further. I wouldn't want anyone to understand that only the SPS respects the deal with Vice President Obradovic this morning. So if we respect the deal, we honor the deal, and if not, we're not a party to anyone, in any way, available. I'm just asking that it be clear, we agreed that Mr. Stevic should report to the Rules of Procedure, and he's reported to the Rules of Procedure, which is a priority for us, and now we expect to work on the amendments. If that is not the case, we will consult and we will see how it will continue to look because I could not take responsibility on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club that, therefore, we are sitting quietly while the other participants discuss the topics that are interesting to them. I assure you there are very interesting topics that we can also discuss. It's the shortest, we don't fight, we try to honor the deal. If that's not possible, then it's certainly not up to us to break the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14884	The word has an MP, Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure. We still have a report of Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's give up, let's stop. Thank you, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14885	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, you can ask us as much as you want, I believe that the citizens of this country are asking you to come to your senses, not personally, but to the ruling coalition. I really have some questions. What's going on, on the one hand we hear from the DSS -- goodbye to Europe, from the G17 plus we hear -- only Europe. From the DS and both. This reminds me of a story we've heard from Russian officials, that what the Liberal Democratic Party is telling is completely understood and not agreeing 100%. What the SRS is saying, they also understand, agrees with 80-90% of that. But what the ruling coalition is saying in this country, they don't understand anything. Your proposal about Hong Kong, people understood that you were talking about some King Kong, they didn't understand anything, you're going out with ridiculous suggestions. Look where you bring the citizens of this country. I would like to ask the Democratic Party something: will we and when will we sign the Stabilisation and Association Treaty? Djelic already lied, Deputy Prime Minister, said it would be in June, we are now in December, approaching January. Are we going to sign that contract in January? And you, a young colleague of the DS, if you have anything to say, come out and tell me, don't throw it out of the bench. We signed an agreement on Cefti with a delay, you know very well what we're in for, that our country is just an observer and what we're losing in such a situation. When we adopt the budget, that's one question, I think we'll all agree in this country, very reasonable. It's 24 today. 12, nine days after the deadline, when the Assembly had to adopt him, the seventh day before December 31st. As far as I understand it, or as far as I can see in this House, the MPs of the opposition if they pulled out their cards, how many MPs from the ruling coalition. I've got help, 17 would be. I'm interested, where are the citizens in your politics? I would also like that, Mr. Chairman, you tell us, you here always have those successful jumps for everyone, so you can tell where the citizens are in the story of the ruling coalition and the ruling majority in this assembly? I repeat, today is December 24th, time for the adoption of the budget by calendar. One more thing, I just wanted to answer Mr. Todorovic because he was talking to us. Mr. Todorovic, citizens have been witnesses for 20 years, I hope you will at least agree in part, that stories about Kosovo and only Kosovo has been used primarily here as means of conquering power and survival in power. I'm not going to say it's the only imperative of your policy, but what we see today, and above all from the ruling coalition, or the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, it's a means of survival in power and nothing more, there is no interest in the citizens of this country and the citizens of Kosovo in that policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14886	National MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I think that's what we end up with, we have a replica of Dragan Todorovic and please stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14887	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think the circumstances and events, the weather, the situation, the dramaticness of the moment point to the need to deal with those topics that are crucial. What is on the agenda, regardless of what is really very important, is not at this point a priority, not from the policy positions, not from the position of strategy, not from geopoliticals. It's simply those topics that were the subject of these polemics in the context of violations of the Rules of Procedure. When we talk about Kosovo, I do not know whether the ruling coalition or the negotiating team will consider what it has suggested between the order of the foreign ministers of Italy, Mr D'Alem, and this is the possibility of dividing Kosovo and Metohija. So maybe at some point it should be consistent with reality. But, no matter what, I have no intention of competing in patriotism, no matter what, not the ruling coalition, the negotiating team to do it behind closed doors, has to bring it out here in parliament. Otherwise, Mr. Todorovic, about what happened, I don't know if it was about me, each of us should individually bear some responsibility for our actions or inactions. We know very well what anyone stood for and who did or did not, and when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to universal justice. When it comes to who raised his voice about NATO intervention, when innocent people were killed. Who, then chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal, filed criminal charges against Javier Solana with whom some to this day sit on the cannabete and against Clark? Who was trying to prove that KLA's crimes were no fight for the national liberation of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, but a crime and terror that could not have a national omen, nor those who committed against us, nor those who committed some of our compatriots in Srebrenica? It is known who advocated a referendum in Serbia, that Serbian citizens decide in what state they will want to live in, not that we are ashamed of the will of Serbian citizens to collateralize Serbia as a sovereign state. It's a mockery and our historical memory, and our national identity and our state-of-the-art tradition, but it's the will of this government. I don't want to talk about the army, because that story would lead us far away from 22,000 homeless people who don't have a roof over their heads or those fat generals, war criminals who got apartments on the Florists of several acres.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14888	Replica, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for 15 or 20 years, the Kosovo issue has been raised as a democratic issue, and it is not a problem as a democratic question. That democratic question came from the Prizren League, shortly before the Berlin Congress. Would you say that was a democratic question at the time? No, it was a plan, a national plan for the Cypriots, Albanians, however you like, to create a great Albania. Is the Albanian democratic issue in Greece? Is the democratic issue of Albanians in Macedonia? What did Macedonia not do that they asked her to do, so they have the same problem with the Shiptars all the time, like we do? I guess you read the paper the other day. You've seen the plan of the great Albania, I guess you've seen it. Did the plan come about because of the regime in Serbia? Is it because there was no deal in Rambuje? No, it was just the process we were going through to make that plan happen. And it wasn't carried out by Albanians, they were just the role they were assigned to perform as much as they could, until they put us in a position to bomb us criminally, to force the signing of the Kuman Agreement, to occupy Kosovo and Metohija, and to carry out the greatest ethnic cleansing in Europe for the second time since World War II. It is unknown, between 200,000 and 350,000 Serbs have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija. How is this possible in a UN-sponsored organisation? How can this be done when in Kosovo there are representatives, let's say, the most democratic nations, states with long-standing democratic traditions, and Americans, and English, and French, in turn? How is it possible that this is happening? How can a pogrom occur in Kosovo in 2004, killing a few dozen Serbs, burning churches, monasteries, schools, houses? Let's explain how it's possible. Who's to blame? Is this regime responsible again? What hasn't been solved? They came to solve, to create multiethnic society, multi-confessionally. Why didn't they do it? How many Serbs have returned to Kosovo and Metohija? How many were killed by those who tried to return to Kosovo and Metohija? What's our problem? What there are some, such as your party, who put those views instead of Americans, so that they have confirmation in their public opinion to say -- here, you have in Serbia politicians, parties who advocate it, so our efforts are totally fine, we should do it because we are asked by Serbian politicians, Serbian parties, as some have asked in 99 years to continue bombing until the regime comes down. It's a problem that we have between us, and that's why they destroy us in a easier and simpler way. If we had reached a consensus on national and national issues, it would have been much harder. It's a problem we haven't been able to solve yet. Once we've solved it, then some things will be much better for us. What's the most important thing here at this point?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14890	Mr. Todorovic, finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14891	Here, I'm done and I won't answer again. We can't defend that so-called. The independence of Kosovo and the Metohija that someone will declare, possibly the Shipari by order of America, but we can do one thing – we will not agree to that. We should tell them and they should know -- eventually Kosovo will be restored to Serbia's sovereignty and will be within common borders. When's that gonna be? We don't know, but the time will come, like the Turks, so they're gone, so now. One minute there will be conditions. You're laughing because it sounds like propaganda to you, but... I understand. He's laughing at everything. That's the problem with him. The people defined it, so I don't want to get into it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14892	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14893	Please, another time, whenever you deserve it. That's the problem we have to solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14894	National MP Vladan Batic, with a promise that this is the end of both talks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Todorovic has now said that Kosovo is already independent. I never said that. The democratic party of Serbia is against Kosovo being independent, but it is not for the deception of citizens. We, unfortunately, cannot influence it. While we were in the DOS, headed by Zoran Djindjic as prime minister, it was not the subject of Kosovo's independence. If Zoran Djindjic had lived, things wouldn't have happened like this and Kosovo wouldn't have been lost. But don't let these big stories and fairy tales, like the Andersen brothers or the Grimm brothers we listen to, because it's not real politics – it'll be ours forever or we'll bring it back someday. When did this happen in history, except for a few exceptions? But let us consider the situation today, the real relationship of power, to make a projection of what is realistic in the future, not that the whole of Serbia is one ghetto, one concentration camp, in which only false patriots will live, as the last living dinosaurs, where they will bring the tourist teams to watch these fake, pseudo or cryptopathriots. But I address first and foremost the ruling coalition, they bear responsibility because they exercise power. I must tell you, sometimes realizing what might happen in the future because of the imbalances of demographics, in 29 years King Alexander made a decision to move 60,000 Serbs to Kosovo, so they were some negotiations with Kemal Ataturk, and at the time of the anexia by Italy, Dalmatia, Istria and Albania were negotiations through Deputy Chief of Staff Paul, and the office of lawyer Stakic with Count Chan was trying to pre-war what was about to happen. But it's all history, it's all the past, there's no story of democracy, it belongs to history. We, unfortunately, now, both in this government and in the ruling coalition have people from Kosovo and Metohija who profit from the accidents of ordinary people from Kosovo and Metohija. They're the most grizzly, they're the biggest profiteers. Kosovo is slowly disappearing, unfortunately, Serbia is getting smaller, but their pockets, their accounts, their companies, their houses and apartments are getting bigger, and over here are the diving crocodile tears over the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. That false patriotism, that cryptopathyism I thought about, and it's a waste, it's immorality, it's misery. Don't just happen again tractor columns because of these frauds, deceptions and lies. Tell people what will happen, truthfully and honestly, no matter how painful this truth is, because we need to be in agreement with real life, and life is the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14896	Is anyone else answering for the amendment submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic? (No) Ambassador Rajko Baralic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. I'm asking the congregation service to call the minister to enter the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14897	Mr Albianić, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS on 16th, I have submitted an amendment which reads: "A contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, the Agency delivers to the Ministry of Finance Affairs, the representative union in the privatisation entity, in the branch, or activity at the level of the Republic, for recording, and employees and minority shareholders in the privatisation entity on their request, for the purpose of getting acquainted." Very short. The SPS supports union requirements, and the Independent Union of Serbia, Independence and others, that it is appreciated in every mutual agreement and arrangement when it comes to privatising the representativeness of unions and that the legitimate struggle of unions, which serves among other things to guarantee workers the minimum rights and rights recognised by all civilised world and above all that set of rights guaranteed by the IOR (International Labour Organisation), and I want to say that our unions, our state signatories of this act and that the privatisation process is the one where, we have already talked about, the most at stake are the workers themselves. That is why I thought it was important for this amendment to be accepted, as would be important for minority shareholders who are privatising entities to deliver all information from the privatisation process, to be informed and to know what are the real, positive and negative consequences of the possible privatisation process. The other day there were employees from the privatized company "Inex Future" Pozega, and I understood in the conversation with them, first they broke up the union there, there's this little collective of 5-6 unions, and then these trade unions are unable to recognize the basic interest of employees, and they weren't able to understand what they could do, and I have to say that no one ever showed them any privatisation contract, nor were they able to get certain information themselves. Here the Privatisation Agency, entrusted by the state with this important and delicate job, is obliged, if this amendment is accepted, to provide representative trade unions and minority shareholders, both in the privatisation process and during subsequent consultations, to make sure that all necessary documents are kept in mind that people are informed, that they do not fail to have their company. And you will see after that, there is an amendment Mr. Nikolic around the deadline on which the new owner is obliged to serve earnings, you will see that they are not able to understand it either before they get along and look back, the new owner does not mostly pay them profits, later the contract breaks up, the company returns to its original state, but this time it sells the Action Fund, not the Agency, etc. So they don't have a second privatisation chance anymore. It would therefore be important for this amendment to be accepted and it would be important for everyone in Serbia to understand what this procedure is and what representative trade unions should get on the ground when privatisation is completed, and what their function is while the pre-privatisation process is under way, so that no one practically represents employees' interests, and this is more often happening in Serbia. So, I keep my promise, I don't want to talk about this anymore. I call on you to support this amendment in the voting day, if we welcome it, because there are unions behind it that represent at least a million workers in Serbia and I believe all those who understand well what happens to employees during privatisation, because none of this can have any harm in the country, and employees can benefit greatly. That was the basic idea of this amendment and we ask you to accept it. Since Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic was informally mentioned here this morning, he is now at the Kolubara worker in Lazarevec and there are no four or five, but there are many more. It is important for us to point to a few questions, because from the Colubara, a great promise came from when the democratic government in Serbia came to refer to the workers, now with a distance of seven-eight years, the Kolubara workers can analyze how things work. Our friend Milutin Mrkonjic is with the workers now and will also be with the workers during the campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14898	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarian Milan Nikolic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group has seriously considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, because it believes that the privatisation process is under way that this law is trying to change some of the deviating things. However, in collaboration with the unions, we have seen some dangers here and have submitted amendments. I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act amending Article 41a, so that point 6a is added after point 6. And at that point, I suggested that the words "nine months" be replaced by the words "three months." This member of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act regulates the obligation of the employer to pay, above all, minimum personal income in full with the necessary contributions and unless it does so within nine months to terminate the labour contract. I proposed to the amendment that it be a three-month period and, if no minimum personal incomes are paid in full within three months, with corresponding contributions, to follow the process of terminating the contract for the purchase of the economic operator. I've been given an explanation by the legislator that it's worse for workers and I have to say that I really can't quite understand that argument. Is it better to protect workers if they don't receive a salary in the next nine months or that protection is better if they don't receive a salary for three months in a row of one continuity? The SPS believes that, otherwise, in such painful transition conditions, workers have found themselves the most damaged and the worst have passed. Many of them have lost their jobs through a social programme or a technological surplus, as it is a large number of people between the ages of 50 and 60 and an internship of up to 35 years, with no chance of finding new jobs. Also, funding from the social programme and payments based on the declaration of technological surpluses are not often enough to start a new job that can be lived on. Unfortunately, the idea of connecting workers with an internship if they provide conditions of up to five years, from two of these age conditions or spent time at work, is not accepted, making it even more difficult to place workers. The SPS believes that it is better to break a contract with an employer who is unable to pay minimum personal income, and that is in line with current law proposals, and to conclude a contract with another bidder that appears after the termination of the contract with the first employer, and not to garner workers with non-payments of minimum personal incomes, especially since it is known that this category of citizens has no savings to survive such a long period of nine months. The fact that the remaining companies that would have gone into bankruptcy are not yet correct for privatization is a matter of controversy. It would be terribly bad if it were the full truth, because for these economic operators, and we've heard that there are over 1,200, the perspective would be that of all the workers on the street. It's about a new army of unemployed workers, which would be a very big problem with the social resolution of these people. I think it is necessary, that the measures of government institutions dealing with this problem and management in business entities must be strengthened to make maximum use of the solution provided for in the Bill's proposal, especially when it comes to the discharge of debts and to prepare these economic operators for sale and perspective that workers in these companies can remain. I think it is of equal interest at the moment that investors' incentives for each employee of 2,000 euros are linked to the interest of healing operators with a market chance. I agree with the view, even if there were a lot of criticism, that in some cases it is not the most important price for a particular economic operator to sell, it is important whether workers will remain at the workplace and whether there will be new investments, above all in the restoration of the outdated technology of such operators. I think we need to understand that this should be the first priority in everything. Positive examples in the recovery of certain business entities and sales after such recoverys, there are many. Because of the deal, I'm not gonna take your time. I think they're encouraging and they need to move in this direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14900	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14901	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to a previous amendment that is quite similar, i.e. only the amendment of Mr. Nikolic differs from Mr. Becic's amendment in that Mr. Becic asked that part of "for a period of at least nine months" be deleted, and Mr. Nikolic left a shorter possibility - after three months. It is interesting to look at the government's explanation for the amendment given by Mr. Becic and given by Mr. Nikolic. So, this is about being eliminated for nine months, but if it fails to pay the minimum wage, it's simply to put an end to the privatisation process. Mr. Nikolic gave it to you for three months. You see what the government wrote in its explanation. When it comes to Mr Nikolic's amendment, he says, "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that a reduction in the period during which the employer is required to pay minimum earnings during the calendar year, from nine months to three months, would result in worse protection of employees in the privatisation entity... "I don't understand this. We're asking that if the one who bought the company didn't pay the minimum profit, not within three months, but that he had to pay the month by month, he says here that if this were accepted, practically, this way, we would make workers' protection worse. I don't know how it would make it worse for me to protect the workers, if we're asking whoever bought the company to carry out their duties. Take only those who have their own companies, they are obliged to pay for the month for the month and the profits, to pay for both pension and social contributions, otherwise subject to dragon penalties. Who was this law written for, then, for those who privatize? That's exactly what they say, but to explain when it comes to Igor Becic's amendment. He says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that by accepting it, it would reduce the possibility of privatisation, given that the number of privatisation entities left with poor business results and mostly non-attractive activities... "This is just amazing. Do you force someone to privatize something? I guess he buys someone with certain interests, mostly economic interests. I can't understand the government saying in advance, with all that we're privatizing in this period -- it's not attractive. Exactly, what was worth, you privatized it, or it wasn't privatized, it was kidnapped by the state. For that one day you'll have to answer, to review this process, and wherever the law is broken, someone will have to go to jail. There's no dilemma. Just to remind you, there was almost a debate about "The mouth" for ten million marks. They say -- two bearing pillars were damaged, it had to break everything down, and it turns out only to wash windows and a little garage and curtains, as Batic would say when it comes to the Federal Assembly. What's this about? This is about the full protection of those who buy businesses, not the protection of workers. This is about the state allowing anyone who buys not to commit to their own workers. Why give them nine months? Either he's capable and able to do this job or, if he's not able to, the state can immediately break it up and sell it to another. And not that you've been letting him go for nine months, he hasn't paid a minimum wage, he hasn't paid taxes and contributions, you take him and you don't care. He, meanwhile, alienated some machines, if he had the land, sold the land, everything he could use, he used it. Who are you protecting here? You protect those you sell to, and you probably make a deal in advance -- see what you do in nine months, the law makes it possible, we won't touch you. When the nine months were over, he was picked up, what he took, he took, the state lost, the workers lost, the company was sold much cheaper than in the previous procedure. Now the question here is, where you say there are fewer attractive companies left to sell, are you referring to NIS, EPS, are you referring to public utility companies that have several thousand employees? Imagine just in so many systems not paying nine months for a few thousand minimum earnings. My basic assumption, when you adopt this law, when you decide to privatize public enterprises under this law, you will not be obliged to pay, not to, but to allow someone who buys not to pay for nine months. And nothing else to put in his pocket but that, he finished the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14902	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The word has a minister of economy and regional development, Mr Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14903	Just an explanation, so there's no misunderstanding. This privatisation law does not apply to public enterprises, but only to social enterprises. He never did. Since its arrival, only social enterprises have been treated, while the privatisation of public enterprises must be regulated by a special regulation. As far as this provision is concerned, I must say it was a union proposal we spoke to, because the current law did not really protect workers' rights. We had cases that people who bought businesses in privatisation didn't pay even minimum profits without it being a break-up condition. So we've improved the current text of the law by inserting it as a break-up condition that during one calendar year at least nine minimum average salaries must pay, which means, if three months doesn't pay off, then the contract is terminated. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: How three months? Because it's the period when you control the contract's fulfillment for a year. That's the thing. The law stipulates that the Agency controls whether investments have been made, whether other matters under the contract are fulfilled and that period of control is one year. After a year, if someone hasn't done it, the contract is broken. That's why we had to put it in that context -- essentially, if some three months don't pay off, it's off the contract, but that period of control has to be left behind, to see if it's able to run a company over a year. That's an explanation. Otherwise, again, on a union proposal, this member has been introduced into the law and I think that the union proposal is good, and it is an additional protection for employees who have never existed before. Once again, it does not apply to NIS, EPS, to any other public enterprise. And as for the number of companies left to privatize, which are socially owned, they are currently around 750. At the beginning of this year, there were about 1,300. So this process is now being accelerated and therefore we believe, given that the privatisation agency's plan is to present itself at auctions of 60 companies per month, and most companies remain to be privatised through auctions, we plan to complete the privatisation process in auctions by the end of next year and to announce the last tender by the end of 2008 and thus end the privatisation process. Also, the Privatisation Agency this year, only since the beginning of the ministry's mandate, has broken 40 contracts with unconscious customers and we will have even more severe controls in the coming period and in all cases where no contractual obligations are met, we will terminate the contracts. The last major breakup is in the event of a failed tender privatisation, unfortunately, in the case of the King's Magnochroma and we will renew the tender for Magnochrom in the next period, in an attempt to find a buyer for him again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14904	What amendment, Mr. Becic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14905	Dear citizens, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister, I think you remembered late when it came to Magnochrom because we had a situation that was literally in the privatisation process, the owner who bought the company, sold out all the living, didn't pay the workers' wages, destroyed the company until the end, and you only eventually remembered to cancel that privatisation. On behalf of the SRS on point 1 of Article 17 - for a period of at least 9 months during the calendar year, I have stated that it is deleted, for reasons that the purchaser of the second capital to be privatised must fully settle all obligations towards workers, and this amendment protects workers' rights better than a legal solution. You're saying this doesn't apply to public enterprises, we've seen how the privatisation of social enterprises has been carried out, we're afraid that the same way public enterprises will be conducted, where NIS, EPS and other public enterprises, which the state would have to protect in this privatisation process, will also be sold out, in the same way the same tycoons will buy them, to destroy these companies. You're giving them a chance here, when it comes to it, I hope you'll keep an eye on public enterprises, not let them do what they want for nine months in these companies, destroy these companies, not pay their wages, sell out property and attractive business spaces, and eventually pack everything in their suitcases and leave these companies. In the process of the nine months, the company is in debt, buying vehicles, later these inn managements, selling them for small funds, buying business premises, selling out business premises, and ultimately only when the government remembers to cancel privatisation of these businesses, pack bags and leave Serbia. We have seen the sea, even in our municipality, the sea of these privatisations that have been carried out only in the interest of these new owners who have bought businesses for small amounts, making mobbing over workers, destroying privatized enterprises, selling out their property, and I repeat it again, because it is to the detriment of the workers that you allow for this law to happen for nine months not to pay the wages, and finally to say - so what, we will privatise this company. Mr. Chairman, I see you're used to cheering up MPs, but you must act as chairman and allow the speaker to speak according to the amendment. And a fellow SPS colleague has tried to amend this legal area, although I am asking this amendment to erase the post-stamp position, to abolish the possibility of nine months treating workers in a way that they are not paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14906	Thank you. Replication to Mr. Minister's presentation, MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister is trying to deceive both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. So there's no dilemma, I'll read you exactly how it says in the law. According to Article 41a - a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets, is considered to be broken due to failure if, within the subsequent deadline set for the fulfillment of the customer - that I do not specify all these positions, i.e. points - 6a) does not pay the minimum wage to the employees of the privatisation entity and the corresponding contributions for a period of at least nine months during the calendar year. What three months, Minister? The agency will control after three months, but based on that, if he didn't pay for three months, he can't break the contract, because it wouldn't be legal. If she broke the contract, she'd have the right to sue and the termination of the contract would be annulled. It says here for nine months, and you're, I don't know what unions you've been working with, maybe with those of the National Savings Bank, they went well, not all of them, but one good number. They got free space, they got free personnel, they took a nice money for sale, and I don't doubt it. But here in the law, it says precisely - unless nine months paid a minimum profit. I don't know how you can interpret it rather than what it says. You can control it every month, and every 15 days, but to break the contract, that's what every lawyer will tell you, you can only run it by law, and the law accurately says, unless a minimum profit is paid in a period of nine months. What you're promising us now, that it won't apply to public enterprises, that it won't apply to NIS and EPS, let go of Mr. Minister, at least we've been used to having absolutely no faith in you since 2000. How can we trust you? When you show up in court and answer, that is, you in court may have a chance to prove you're unarmed, with a gang of bandits, to enter the NBJ... (President: Please, Mr. Todorovic, I don't think it's right to discuss it like that. Mr. Chairman, I understand, but Mr. Dinkic has a criminal lawsuit for breaking into the NBJ. (President: Let it go, let's get back to the agenda. ) His immunity was established in 2006. To give you trust, you must, like all citizens, prove you have credibility. The first step on that path will be to appear in court, to give up immunity in the Serbian government, and when you get paper in court that you're not guilty, then we can talk on the basis of trust. Until then, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14908	The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic, by amendment, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14909	Following an amendment by counterpart Nikolic regarding Magnohro, whose contract ended on 17 December this year. What I was about to ask is an alarming condition where Magnochromists in the King were found. They had two requests at the last session. One is addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, for solidarity aid, where they sought solidarity aid expressed through a single donation. When I asked for the end of the contract, I criticised it at the same time because you made the city of the Kings a city of socially endangered people, not only in this way but also in the privatisation that you did with Agriculture, with Utro Serbia, with the Refrigerator and, now, with Magnohrom. Since we already have over 30,000 refugees, and since we haven't settled their economic issue and since they're still in refugee camps, I'm asking you how we're going to solve this issue now and what we're going to do with 10,000 people. So we have 2,205 workers, four family members, that's about 10,000 people. All those 10,000 people don't have a certified health book anymore. Since 1.1.2008 they can no longer be treated. Here's what I wanted to ask. So they've referred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy one request with this, about, request, for solidarity aid expressed through a one-time new donation. Then I rebelled because the people who built this factory now came into a situation to seek welfare. It should be a shame for both the state and the Ministry and the Privatisation Agency that did it. However, other requests were sent to the health ministry, where they sought: find a legal opportunity to provide health care for all Magnochroma employees and members of their families. This information that I have and that the entire King knows, it's that union representatives appear over a dozen people a day, so 300 people have reported in the last few days since this Global-style contract was broken, they've been looking for health care because people don't know what's waiting for them. They have very difficult health conditions, about operations, about everyday needs, and this is how I appeal, I insist and ask, so that no social disaster will occur, people refuse to be in health institutions, they can't be treated, and now I ask one question, and I ask, and I ask that every MP put himself in a situation that he hasn't received a salary in the last year, that there are no more economic resources for life, and that he has to be treated, he won't accept it, because he doesn't have a health book. Explain to me what a man will do with children, what a family will do, how it will be treated and what it will come to. You have to understand that there are other situations that will be born with the whole story. So we're making a mess in town, and that's an urgent question that needs to be resolved immediately. You urgently need to resolve these people's issues, even now, before New Year's Eve, what you're going to do with these people's health care. It's 10,000 citizens of the Kings. I urge and insist and ask on behalf of all of them to urgently resolve the problem of the health care of these people and the one-time assistance related to the coming holidays and their very lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14910	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee are proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The word has a People's MP, Verica Radet, on the previous amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14911	Mr Albianic, it is not according to the previous amendment, but by the amendment of counterpart Milisav Petronivic. You looked only at the side where the fellow applicant of the amendment sat, and now it turns out to you that I called late, and I did not, but slowly, because I want to comment on the amendment of my colleague, Petronijevic. He suggested that in Article 41a of the applicable law, after point 6a, which we were just talking about, I should read the first sentence, the beginning of Article 41: "The contract on the sale of capital, or property, is considered to be broken because of the failure if not even in the subsequent deadline for the fulfillment of the customer", and then stated what everything, and in the amendment of my colleague Petronijevic added: ''it does not respect the rights of employees established by collective agreement, labour contract and labour law. ''I would like to remind, above all, the public of Serbia, of the Labour Act, that is, labour laws that have been passed since 2000. You remember that first Labour Act, which was really so bad that even the amendments couldn't be fixed. It was a law that absolutely ignored and dumped employees' rights and which, like all your laws, was passed for employers, and that, of course, for these new employers, for those who bought sugars at one euro, who bought Ju-es-style for three times less money than what was its value, who bought cements at a price lower than the one offered at the time, as you say, of the previous regime. Your labour laws have been passed, and I also want to remind the public first of all by voting from Thessaloniki. You remember, then an MP, Mr. Novakovic, at the time the mayor of Novi Sad, was not in the hall, was in Thessaloniki and voted in favour of the Labour Act, i.e., better said, that labour law, which you applied, was never legally adopted, nor could it enter into force. This current Labour Act is not significantly better than the previous one. This Labour Act, now current, absolutely doesn't care about employees, about workers. I also remind Serbia's public that under this law, the employer has no obligation, say, to pay overtime. The law left him at will whether he did it or not. Now you tell me which employer will pay any compensation if the law does not oblige him, which employer will act as a social institution to the employees. Of course there are no such ones and the citizens of Serbia know it best. Also, under this law, there is no obligation, let's say, that if an employee who has been fired by a judicial verdict is returned to work, the employer has no obligation to return him to work, but by paying him double earnings, lost, in fact, profits for that period, to keep him out of work. In fact, the verdict doesn't mean anything. The former employee who got fired, if he sues the employer, or the company that fired him, and if he gets returned to work, the paper has nothing to do with it, because the law said that the employer is not obliged to return him to work. The law also does not oblige the conclusion of collective agreements. In this regard, perhaps in one part, the proposal of a colleague, Petronivic, at this point, is impossible under this law. Although the amendment is good and should be kept in mind that, when a single amendment is being discussed, regardless of the fact that it has no support in some other laws, that if the assembly majority decides to vote in favour of this amendment, of course it also involves amending some other laws that are in close contact with this amendment, or this amendment. I remind you, too, and the public, above all, that when we passed this Labour Act, which is a very bad law for the employees, that Boris Tadic then tried to make one, a jargonically speaking, gaff, so as to return that law to the National Assembly, he did not want to sign it, because that law is not good for the employees, but two or three days later in this House we voted again on the text of the law, the exact same, identical, none of the entangled, and Boris Tadic then signed the law. He just wanted to draw attention to the Serbian citizens that he was taking care of the employees, but by signing this labour law, he actually showed that he is a simple hypocrite and essentially doesn't mean anything to the employees of Serbia, but that he supports the laws that are passed for employers, and that is for employers who become it after privatisation. In the government's explanation, why is the amendment not accepted by counterpart Milisav Petronivic, it is said, among other things, that 'the amendment is not accepted because resolving employees' issues is arranged through a social programme that forms an integral part of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. property', and that I do not read further, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members, we all know what these social programmes mean. We all know how sick Serbian citizens are with these social programs, we all know how many people with 50 or some year more of lives are out of work based on this social programme, get two or three or five thousand euros, spend them for two or three or five years and now have five or six years to retire and these people literally have nothing to live on. No one will hire them from these new employers, because they don't need people with experience, who could really contribute to the development of production in the companies they bought, they don't want to hire them, because mostly these companies are bought because of their location, they buy a budget, and then at those locations, when the contract deadline of two years expires, where they are obliged to respect these new employers of the contract that they don't change anything in two years from the company, that they don't fire employees who are left behind, who are not on the social programme, but have already left the company. When two years go by, what happens then: in those two years employers really respect it in terms of what employees pay for some minimum earnings, which is basically nothing done in these companies and when they go through two years, because they are mostly good locations, instead of some factory nothing hotels, nothing that is profitable for a new employer and there is not a word about a social programme that really rightly solves the issues and problems of people who are left without a job. Furthermore, the government's argument -- accepting the proposed amendment would mean, imagine, unnecessary complementarity of existing norms in one part, and in the other would open up a number of possibilities for terminations of contracts due to any violation of a collective contract or employment contract, or even minor ones, which would create legal uncertainty and ultimately lead to deterioration of employees in enterprises in which contracts with these, minor, reasons would possibly be broken. This argument, Mr. Minister, if you are behind it, if you have read the government's argument is indeed an insult to the intelligence and the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia. How can you say that accepting the amendment, first of all, would mean unnecessary complementarity of existing norms in one part? What does that mean, unnecessary complementarity? Does this supplementing make sense or doesn't make sense? There is no necessary and unnecessary supplementation. We support this amendment, and we think it is necessary to supplement this article in this way. What is even worse is what you said that by accepting this amendment, it would open up a number of possibilities for termination of the contract because of any breach of the collective contract. Who are you protecting, Mr. Minister? What's the problem with breaking those contracts, if the new owners really don't stick to the contract and don't follow the law? I guess the state of Serbia should protect all citizens of Serbia, not just this small percentage of those who are rich enough to buy businesses. Of course, we have nothing against people who are rich, nothing against those who participate in privatisation, or those who become privatised owners of the firm, but we have against those who do not respect employees' rights, because unfortunately, if new owners do not do so and if the state deafens on that, then a large number of employees, who are former employees, remain without the means to live. Nor do unions function the way they should function, to protect the rights of these people. The government, it's obviously from your explanation, has no intention of doing it. You know, you can't, you just said here that you've cancelled a large number since you're head of that ministry, a large number of privatisation contracts. What did you do with the Ju-es-style, what did you do with the cements? Tell the MPs and the public of Serbia that you have contracted and for what reason you have annulled, Mr. Minister. You were talking about co-operation with representative unions. We don't believe you when you say you've done anything in agreement with representative unions for two reasons. The first is that it has never been determined what representative unions are and who evaluates it. The second is, this big lie that you tried to use for an election campaign, which refers to free action. You have informed the MPs from this place, including the citizens of Serbia, that you are the so-called bill of law. You made free actions in agreement with representative unions, and only a day after that, you had all the unions, or representatives of these representative unions in front of the Serbian government, and they informed the Serbian public that the government had deceived the employees, that it had deceived the citizens of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia, who knows which way, lied to the citizens of Serbia, but we will when we talk about it in detail about this law that is next on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14912	The word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14913	Col. Milisav Petronijevic, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of a single amendment, explained his amendment, only in a few sentences. We consider, as well as representative trade unions, and representativeness is determined in the only possible way -- the number of accessions that employees in various collectives sign and accept the programme of a particular union and therefore determines representativeness. Serbia's independent union has 600,000 such accessions. There are other unions that are representative, but from afar all together do not represent the union power by the number of accessions as the Independent Union. So, Mr. Milisav Petronivic's amendment, which he submitted on behalf of the SPS, is plowing things up with the Privatisation Agency and with the Government now in a specific case, which collective bargaining or collective contract already reached in the companies that are privatised, now new owners of privatised businesses replace with the labour rule. The collective bargaining is the fluids of union struggles and is followed by almost all the countries in Europe that have in their congregations or in their governments by the Social Democrats or by parties close to that political implementation. Here in our assembly there are parties that exercise power and that explicitly in the program insisted on these solutions. So you have the social democratic, you have the liberal, which are from the point of view of relations with minority groups' rights, national but also all other liberal ones, but not as we can see in the solutions proposed here in laws that are highly relevant to employees in Serbia. So we, as a party to the left, would insist on it and insist that the parties that exercise power translate their political programme regarding this segment into legal solutions. The collective agreement does not have any competition in any other form of contract between employees and employers. As you know, in Serbia, therefore, there are at the border level, there are other collective agreements, there are individual, depending on who and with whom they sign and under what circumstances and who they represent. So, Mr. Milisav Petronivic's amendment insists that companies that go into the privatisation process, which had a signed collective agreement after privatisation, should therefore be strengthened that collective contract, at least in that time period until the new owner has settled his obligations, because he bought the capital and until he becomes the owner of the property, which is always some procedure that lasts from one year to several years, depending on whether he bought it as a private person or bought it as the owner of one or more enterprises. In that sense, this amendment has been written. We know, and Mr. Petronijevic knows, what it says here in the Labour Act that is unacceptable to us. This is a distraction to an important segment, of the labour rights Corps. Workers, by definition, more or less in Serbia and for trade union leaders in their companies, and mostly for union leaders, honor for exceptions, generally choose people I see at promotional meetings of right-wing parties. I can write a book about it in Chačka. So it's not possible that you, as an ultrarightist in Chačka, who's leading, let's say, the metal board in Cačka, who has a completely different concept of all this, are not able to advocate the rights of workers of cutting tools, where he usually works, or someone else in "Freedom," anyway, when he adopts a political concept that is totally contrary to his union struggle. So I don't believe in that kind of schizophrenia, that's not possible at all. Workers would be obliged and alone to take great care when they approach a union, when they sign that accession and when they choose their leaders, to know well what their real potential is, not politically, but socially, because they here need to deal with these issues and whether they, as activists of the ultra-right parties, are able to represent their interests in the best possible way. So, that's the thing that we're doing here, of course, employees also have responsibility for this, because very often we meet here, honor of exceptions, with union executives who understand nothing in this area and who believe that what I'm saying is impossible right now is possible. But it's a process. In Europe today, all union centrals function in a different way, so from supporting funds to collective bargaining, all things are solved so that the worker knows exactly what his obligations are. However, the workmen's obligations to the employer are precisely regulated. That's what I'm saying, so that someone doesn't think that in any way I'm saying that there's got to be work to pay for or riding. No, on the contrary, everyone has to fulfil their obligation and in this sense this amendment is important. This country will be in place in a few years that the Labour Act has to change this. If you were to ask all these who had lost their jobs and all those that were in privatised companies whether they voted in favour of the programmes of one or another political party, few would say that they stood up for the political programmes of the social democratic options or options that go more to the left. Most of them are governmental parties that have a completely different vision of this entire segment. Otherwise, I understand that private property is the most efficient form of property and it is the best possible solution for company owners, only it is the most unfavourable option for employees. There's a big union fight between these two things that has to make one work by law and the other do by the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14914	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14915	Dear fellow citizens, I must look back on the questions that have been raised here. The first one's tied to the Labour Act. Mrs. Vjerice, you are absolutely right, Mr. Tadic has been speaking for the failure to sign the Labour Law with concern for workers, and in fact the laws in this country translate and write those who listen to foreign investors, who do not care about our workers, who do not care about the state interest and who do not care about Serbia's future. Boris Tadic and DS are interested solely in what foreign investors think about the conditions of business in Serbia. Their request comes down to the following, privatization of everything as possible and as little burden as possible for employers. When they say as little burden as possible for employers, they mean the lowest possible profit tax and the lowest possible obligation to employees. That's what the Labour Act says most. You don't need to, Mr. Albianic, you don't say a word, that's what the Labour Act says. I really don't know who's thinking of defending that privatisation isn't about state capital, or that this isn't about public enterprises. Article 1 of the amendment and the addition of the law, so you underestimate literacy, not intelligence, says, I read your proposal, after the attitude so far, the following is added, which says, "in accordance with the provisions of this law, capital and property are privatized and in social enterprises," do you think that's all we're reading. The previous view says, "The subject of privatisation is also state capital, shown in actions and stakes, if the conditions and the process of selling that capital are not otherwise regulated by a special law." If they're not, then it's enough that there's a possibility here that state capital, which is actually the capital of public enterprises, I think the first year students know what a public enterprise, the nature of capital, and the exercise of public interest. But the nature of capital is what qualify something for a public enterprise. So the fact that you didn't write that this law would privatise the public doesn't mean that you won't apply the law to them, because you have reached a legal basis here. So when we adopt these changes and additions, you can legally apply this law to public enterprises. Don't let us play law enforcement. Do not think that you will reduce the enthusiasm of the SRS to fight against your law, your proposals and your impudence to refuse all constructive objections. After this morning's Finance Committee, where the government has rejected the list, and the majority who supports the government, which I cannot claim to be the majority, because of the eight present representatives of that ruling majority, five voted regularly against our proposals, and the three were abstained; therefore, the troubled majority is pleading against each amendment, regardless of what these amendments specify in fact the Government's solution. It is not unrelated to what we are doing, the adoption of the budget that has come into question because of the lack of agreement within the coalition, it is also related to the Budgetary System Act, where I, among other things, have proposed that the revenues that the government has listed in the members of Law 23, 24 and 25 be shown in the budget. Dear citizens, the government has listed the revenues it has under the law for members 23, 24 and 25. I asked the amendments for them to show themselves in the budget. The government refuses that amendment. It's just amazing. Why? He says it'll be inadequate, because we can't plan individual revenues, so because of the reality of showing the budget. There's no citizen in this Serbia who doesn't know, when he takes a payment card to fill, so he says he's taxing on carrying guns, so he writes a court tax, so he writes a consular fee, that he doesn't know he's paying into a special payment account. So every income of the state is paid into a special payment account, which is enough elements to monitor, plan and, as such, show. You must have the elemental human and professional honesty to say that you are bothered by any control and truth of the display of the elements in the budget. Now, after such an experience from this morning's Finance Committee, where the government itself is denied, because it does not want control, I expect you to accept my amendment to Article 41b of the basic law, or Article 18 of the amendment, where I ask that the funds achieved from the sale of capital are paid into the account of the budget. Now the citizens will be surprised by my request. Doesn't it make sense that the assets from the sale of the company are just being deposited at the expense of the budget. But no. The funds from the sale are paid into the account of the Privatisation Agency, which is not in the budget, which does not account for us, does not account for the government that founded it, which voluntarily, does not know in which procedure, chooses advisers, financial and legal, we do not know by which criteria it publishes ads and prospectuses and collects all that from the cost of selling the company. So when it comes to all this, who knows who and who knows what key, the chosen people, agencies and firms, it keeps itself and 5% of the tip, as compensation for success in the privatisation process, which is only from 2002 to September 2007 - 126m euros. With this amendment, I ask that the commission be abolished as an income to the agency, because 126m euros should be paid a lot more than the costs we do not know who they are, who they are and what they are for and who they are leaving for. With this amendment, I ask that the Republic of Serbia's budget earn funds from privatisation, and that the finance minister, who is responsible for the Republic's register, agree on the costs incurred by the Privatisation Agency and which are necessary. Therefore, in point 2 of the words "and the special compensation achieved by the conclusion of the contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets (demand)", are deleted. In paragraph 3, at the end of the text, the point is replaced by a comma and the text "which the finance minister has approved" is added. Let the finance minister later say, no, they themselves are closing credit agreements, I can't answer, because I don't wonder, when this amendment gives him a normal, natural right to ask for the revenues that enter the government's register and to ask for the costs that are created at the budget's expense through the Treasury, whose boss is he, they pay. I have no illusion that you will vote for this amendment, but I want Serbian citizens to see that Mr. Tadic is only honest and good citizens, that DS, whose candidate, for honesty, the public of work and public finances that citizens understand, is only on words and in a pre-election campaign, possibly on television shows, but here, where the place is, in laws, there is no "D" of good for the people. I want you to see it, so clearly and without any twisting, I explain the contents of this amendment. So, dear Serbian citizens, respected colleagues, if there is one single reason someone can say that this amendment should be rejected or impossible, let it come out and tell the citizens of Serbia in person. Don't tell me - the agency needs to finance from some means. You should. A state agency doing business in the interests of the state should be on budget financing, not behind a dark and opaque curtain. Let it be on the budget, the legal basis for financing the agency exists, because when it is formed, it is told that it is the source of funding in the budget. Don't tell me we can't abolish acquired rights. Anything that is introduced by law can also be abolished by law. How was it possible in one day to leave 8.5,000 workers from the four largest banks on the street? That was possible. But you know why? Because the custody fund agreement, adopted in September 2001, said that the state of Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro is obliged to liquidate state banks with a cutting method from case to case. Are foreign investors, are these callers so strong and important that they can do what's called destroying, under the company of entering a rich and colorful world, and that the power of the citizens who chose us and who represent a significant force here is insignificant. Do you think your presidential candidate gets the mandates and votes from the foreign ambassadors, or from the tycoon or those for which we changed the first tax laws when we released, if you remember, coffee from taxes, and introduced a tax on the autogas that makes the poorest drive? Or are voices asked of a people whose interest we should make laws? I just want the people to see it, to hear and to assess, to make a difference, and it's not a moment of political talk, it's about the facts that are contained in the legal projects that determine our future. Please, dear colleagues, I know what party obedience is, I know what emergency is, but please, you need to go into your midst and get your friends and neighbors, and those who have lost their jobs because of privatisation, look into your eyes and say, it couldn't have been different. It can be different, but you don't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14916	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a national envoy, Veljko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14917	Dear People's MPs, my colleague Dragan Colic has proposed an amendment – Article 20 is deleted. He probably saw that this was unnecessary too, and if that were true, here's what I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna document it for you, but I don't have a minister. Since Cvetkovic was president of the Privatisation Agency at the time of this privatisation, and then they changed, let me now give you an example that says this - privatisation made in 2004, the real value of the property of 4 billion dinars. Privatisation of an accounting value of one billion dinars, the number of employees of 250 workers, the majority owners became Dutch and Romanian, the state and workers became co-owners of only 30% of the capital. The situation at the shipyard in 2007, concerning the shipyards in Kladovo: the value of zero dinar property, the owners of the property transferred to social bases within the shipbuilding site of five new companies; the shipbuilding site left three employees and the director, 150 workers fired, and the remaining 100 workers transferred to new companies without any rights from the old shipbuilding site. I've already had a chance to talk about this. In 2008, the shipyard prepares bankruptcy, with the loss of the right to the actions of all workers who have enrolled, about 900 workers, as well as the payment of leftover wars and obligations according to judicial solutions. Financial malversions in final accounts for 2004,2005, 2006. a year, illegal security and alienation of property, falsification of documents, all with the help of lawyers and state institutions. Why do I say state institutions? Because I'm going to explain this -- under point 2 of this, I'm going to get to know the highest state authorities and individuals, court proceedings have been initiated, but there is no reaction, and unfortunately, as it is found, that is the fate of 90% of privatisation in Serbia. It's an example that's about to be a bad privatisation law. We're not going individually. I have another company, was Mr. Cvetkovic, and this is the “Build” Kladovo company, where what we said just before, the owner died, the director of some there inherited, workers have no salary, no regress, no work systems, no systematicized jobs, nothing, nine months behind the salary, 70 thousand are due to an ordinary worker who gets in court. It's privatisation: 70 thousand of these, and what we do for the other structures that are employed. All the decisions legally taken, all the institutions have passed and there is nothing. To whom these workers, to whom shall we address and whom shall at all prove that this law of privatisation is not good. When the SRS comes to power not only this law, 200 laws will have to be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14918	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milosav Milickovic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Milovanovic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Bojan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14919	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 23. The privatisation law, and I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but I think it's an important matter, so I'm going to try to explain as soon as possible what this is about. I'll say a few things first. These days, we've had bile debates about what our budget is like, what our relationship to local self-government is like. We've heard different interpretations, different qualifications and suggestions on what to call that budget. Some have called it pre-election, some wasteful, some like that, and I would call it selectively wasteful, for the simple reason that the picture of the budget itself and what I will now talk about through the proposal and through this amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SPS indicates that the government's relationship to local self-government is not absolutely in sync with what has essentially advocated all these five, six, seven years. Here's the thing. In particular, the budget itself predicts the place of local self-government through one, I wouldn't say anything less difficult, except by humiliating the shape through these transfers that, by some special criteria, we in the local self-government still share enough undefined and precise, so to speak. The 24th member of the budget law is just demonstrating one position of force and relation to local self-government, as this only member of the law provides for the possibility that unless the rural self-government adequately behaves as suggestions by the Ministry of Finance, it is possible to abolish these famous transfers. I will remind you once again that the DOS programme has since 2000 repeatedly advocated decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation, strengthening local self-government, which essentially did not happen. That is why today we have local self-government without property, and what is the essence of this proposed amendment is the Law on Privatisation itself just as if it denies the existence of local self-government. That is why I have proposed an amendment that says - point 4 of Article 61) is amended and reads: "5% of the funds will be allocated to finance the development of the infrastructure of local self-government on whose territory is the seat of the privatisation entity, and for part of the privatisation entity located outside the seat, these funds belong to local self-government in whose territory is located and performs the work of that part of the privatisation entity". I'm going to try to explain this to a few very precise examples, which affect especially small municipalities and small communities, such as Raska from which I come. I would like to remind you that this very important issue has also been discussed at the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities and that all positive initiatives have come in the direction that these famous 5% of the privatised entity, the social enterprises, the backs to fund the infrastructure, but the law so far has said – in place of the seat of the privatisation entity. In translation, this means that all the small environments, such as Raska, are located in large cities and this is precisely showing another aspect of the metropolise of our Serbia, so today in Raska we have a specific "Genex", whose headquarters is in Belgrade, then we have a drive called the flag" of Kragujevac, whose headquarters is in Kragujevac, then two machine plants, which function in the "Lola" corporation system and that I don't list any further. You will hear many examples in Serbia. What's going on now? It happens that when a social enterprise is privatised, even those 5% that are meant to finance the municipal infrastructure of the local environment, it goes to large cities. I will remind you once again that it is indisputable that both these isolated companies and plants are developing exactly the municipal infrastructure of these small cities, I will not say deliberately to the Palanca, but simply they do not have a single dinar of revenue from privatisation, regardless of what the Privatisation Act permanently mentions them as a participation in that distribution from the financing of privatisation. Now listen to what this is about. My fellow MPs, the arguments are very strange and this is what Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic said very precisely, where, and in what way. They find several reasons why you can't calculate what 5% of the privatization entities are. They then say that the isolated facilities of these large-scale companies, can only be sold in a partial phase or restructuring process and that these funds can be used exclusively and purposely only for the settlement of creditors. Now the strangest thing. On the other hand, if the capital of the privatisation entity that has the organisational parts is sold, in particular what I'm talking about, which performs activity outside the seat of the privatisation entity, the distribution of funds from the privatisation income under the proposed amendment would be inconclusive. In fact, it is about entities whose parts work in the territory of several local self-government. It is almost impossible to calculate with which percentage of the parts of the privatisation entity participates in the sale price. In translation -- the gentleman who came up with such a famous member, it was easiest to say -- then to those local self-governments of zero, not to say pike. Then I guess that's the math and math that's supposed to pass on that 5% to local self-government. You know what's going on? These famous giants, public enterprises and everything in this chaos called privatization for the past seven to eight years, conditioned that local communities, and like Raska there are many in Serbia, hundreds of municipalities have not received a yellow bank since privatisation. Now I'm gonna say the next thing. So it was often that these small environments, which were very much important in the development of this Serbia, rejoiced more than privatisations because of the most ugly things that hit our economy, which were bankruptcy, were at least part of the money from the transfer of absolute rights, and they were looking forward to it. They didn't get anything from that famous privatisation. What else is true and what is the fate of such an environment? It is not a problem when the value of the privatisation entity is equal to ten-fifth million dinars, the 5% is small, and then these local environments can overcome the problem. But what if we were to talk about giants like Genesis, so I thought the little minister would listen to a few of my comments on this, so the estimated value, let's say, now by heart, isn't even a tender, but it's 100,000 euros, that 5% is 5,000 thousand euros. I'll remind you that these are the actual budgets of these small environments. Then you can think of what those 5,000 thousand euros would mean for the development of devastated, undeveloped municipalities on the edge, on the administrative line in southern Serbia, in the west and east of Serbia, it is irrelevant, but that money would surely go away and that money would surely go to the financing of the infrastructure, in what the fundamental law should say. So we would really be doing plumbing, sewers, potentially preparing localities and infrastructure for some greenfield investments. However, and now we have in this situation a devastating truth, which is that this 5% of the funding of local self-government goes, Belgrade I love, respect and appreciate, at the end of the day, it is a city of all of us, but I think it prevents the construction of a water pipeline and a sewer system in one Raška rather than building jars, benches and editing markets in large metropolis. One more example should be noted here. This example is how the fate of such laws can be very harsh toward small environments. These small environments, I'll remind you, are neither in debt nor in one system that knew the categories of social property, they built factories and companies during the previous decades, but they integrated. They remember an older colleague that for a time in Serbia there was a small modernity, what we now call small and medium-sized enterprises, it was modern to enter into large systems and then they entered these large systems. I'll remind you once again, they were built by the economy and carried the development of such small-scale enterprises. Then, as if someone were to say the dots, this no longer applies, integrated into large systems, large systems are privatized and no dinar to local self-government. I have said several classic examples that what we see as one really since 2000, what is often used, the term of regional development and the help to raise small and undeveloped environments, to raise them up economically, to balance this economic growth in Serbia, this is an absolute denial of all of this and precisely the naked truth of what the relationship of this moment in Serbia towards regional development is to the development of small and undeveloped municipalities. As important as this information is, we, the president of local self-government municipalities, have several times, not to say by consensus, have said that this law, the destructive law regarding these small underdeveloped municipalities, and I am specifically a proponent of amending the law, but it will probably never enter into the procedure of this assembly, and I am also trying to say that it is necessary to do and to arrange that from the privatisation of at least one yellow dinar happens in these small environments. One more time about Raska, who is so special to me. These coming months will be privatization in the Kopalnik. Now the next thing I know, what's gonna happen? This Serbia has again continued, according to its tried-out method of peto-octobaric change, to take back the very important, strong and developed things in certain segments and the full republican budget. I agree with that, but again, the essential question is, what about the small environments? A new company has been formed, Serbia's Public Business ski resort. The Geneks will go into privatization, so we'll have some stranger, welcome to the Bath. What will remain in the middle of a name called Raška, what will remain of this local self-government? The workers will remain one big ballast, in which new 200-300 people will include, reintegrate and in such a weak economy of weak, regionally deleted areas in Serbia. I appeal once again, this is no longer a request, these topics are constantly spinning and at a constant conference of cities and municipalities, constant whispering among local self-government presidents, however, this bureaucratic-party manner has conditioned that this moment also in the same way that the small and local environments are being bypassed. Perhaps this amendment was an opportunity to be given by the government regulation, there is no mathematics that can sell for the amount to the local middle of zero. We're in the explanation of this scientist who wrote the explanation said, here I was just continuing to note -- that's why the best way to give the local self-governments nothing. I was talking about the fate of Raska. Believe that in Serbia, there are over 100 of these municipalities, whose entities are privatization, their seats are in large cities, and their work on the territories of these small municipalities. I appeal once again, don't let what our Serbia needs to exist on, don't let the towns run out of one single yellow bank in the privatisation process. Don't just say that through these compensatory and other transfers, it is replaced by local self-government, because these transfers have become a political option, and these transfers have more lost every criterion, so that any amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government gives new solutions. Everything taxed is poured into the Republic budget, while local budgets remain with things that carry their fate and care, feeling like stepdaughters. I once again appeal to MPs that this amendment, which is highly designed, is not a product of my party's thinking and my smallness, it is indeed the product of a deep thought, an analysis and frequent conversation of such small municipalities, which I call the largest municipalities in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14920	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dusan Stupar. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Dusan Stupar has justifiably lags behind, so I'm going to try to explain the amendment. He is in Kragujevac for Tomislav Nikolic's rally, a promotion of SRS presidential candidate. Dušan Stupar submitted an amendment to Article 24. In order to understand what this is about, Article 24 is the criminal provisions of this law: ''The fine of 100,000 to 300,000 dinars will be punishable for the commercial offence of the state trustee if he submits a request for forced payment or any measure of enforcement, for the payment of claims against the entity which is privatised by the method of the public tender, or public auction. The fines from 50,000 to 100,000 dinars will punish the economic offence of the 1st member's position and the responsible person in the state trustee. ''The amendment submitted by Dusan Stupar agrees with the amendments provided for in Article 9 of this Act, because we believe that the prohibition to apply for forced payment or any other measure which would lead to the collection of claims from the entity in the privatisation process is a damaged trustee and enables abuses. It is clear that this amendment, Dusan Stupar, wanted to protect the trustee, who can apply for payment of his debt to the entity in the privatisation process. The SRS believes that this Article 24 needs to be deleted and that by eradicating this article, it promotes and improves the law. This is not the first case of harmful acts by passing laws from the congregation’s majority i.e. of the ministry, harmful action against the trustee. This amendment corrects the situation, but that is not the case only in this procedure. I believe that by passing the law, it has caused the harmful functioning of many local self-governments, such as mine in Vienna, where PIC's privatisation has created a general chaos and harmful action as regards state, local self-government and the province. There has been a great storm in public information these days. until the rebellion of agricultural producers who could not report i.e. to participate equally in the lease of state land. There is a huge amount of state land in the municipality of Vienna, i.e. 11,000 ha, where the new owner of the out-of-court settlement has now reached a price of 8,000 dinars per hectare and where local agricultural producers, i.e. people who are engaged in agriculture, who lack agricultural land in their land, wanted to participate equally in the tender, i.e. In the very bidding for the lease on agricultural land, but they didn't get a chance. Mr. Minister's option, i.e. G17 plus, she supported the president of the municipality, who came from the Combinet to be the president of the municipality, and has done great harm to local self-government and the state, i.e. with its support. The state budget, because for 1,000 ha located in the second catastrian municipality of Srbobran, a price was reached through the auction of 35,000 to 40,000 dinars. When you take 11,000 ha of the price difference from 8,000 to 40,000, huge funds have damaged the Republic's budget, the province's budget and the local self-government budget. I'd like to point out that by his pestic activity, G17 plus has caused enormous damage in the Vienna municipality. The assembly majority, which also exists here in the republic's parliament, government and local self-government parliament in Vienna, have done enormous damage. The pests operate at the level of the Republic, local self-government and all levels where an option appears that can be re-painted from the republican level to the local level.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14922	The word has an MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14923	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this morning coming to this session I heard that 289 companies were sold at auction for about 300m euros. Thirteen large enterprises have been sold for about 50,000 euros. I'm asking you, where did this money come from, is it in this National Investment Program that you probably want to go on a pre-election campaign? If we take a chronological look at this economic picture of Serbia, you will see that in certain municipalities, but I will talk about the town of Sabac, where, in co-operation with local authorities, with the Ministry of Privatisation, with the Privatisation Agency, the biggest crime has been committed in the Sabak municipality. The democratic government, headed by the current minister of injustice Dusan Petrovic, has set out in a fierce realization that all companies in the Sabak municipality are privatised as soon as possible, i.e. to change the titlemaker. What's really going on? It happens that those companies that were sold in the tender, actually after a while, if they look at those contractual obligations, those buyers, these new owners, didn't meet those contractual obligations. In fact, they waited for the time period to pass, so that after two years they could fire extra workers, or fire those who, retailers, gave their lives for the work and construction of that factory - disabled. If I look at the picture, whenever I go out for this pay phone, I mention the first privatized firm in Šapac, which was kidnapped, it's "Mepritlastics" in Šapac, a company that was a model, which produced equipment and brushes for bottled storks. It is today with 400-500 workers reduced to minimal production and employs hundreds of workers. I wonder where that surplus is, or where are the rest of the workers who have been expelled, or whose actions have been taken? If you look at the metal company Ingo, also the buyer who bought them did not respect the contractual obligations, and the company is today at a bankruptcy, ahead of the collapse. In fact, the retail workers don't work at that company. If we look at "July 7th", a traffic company that used to be a model as a transport home, today has been robbed, all vehicles have been torn apart. With this tender and this purchase, Malten, you can't even get into the documentation of how this company was sold and how the workers were expelled from work. Here, you know the affair - ceramic tiles, it's in Zorka Shabac holding, which was taken by an Austrian firm, which also played with workers, where half of those workers were expelled from work. There are also several companies that have continued their production trend and have hired even more workers than companies have previously employed, i.e. this production process has also been increased, such as Dumaca, the Sabbath milkmaker, such as packaging for the production of plastic equipment, etc. So there are four or five companies that have continued their production trend and with this trend could employ workers. If we look at the catering company "Sava", where privatisation minister Aleksandar Vlahovic noticed there was an irregularity, but unfortunately, it was ahead of the end of Mr. Vlahovic's term when he noticed it. There was no cancellation of the company's purchase and there was an abuse of the use of contractual obligations by the company's owners. Not to mention many trading houses that also bought these trading houses, as Verica Radeta said, just because of the infrastructure and the space where their facilities are located. Not to mention one of the most prospective companies that was in Zorka's company, which is the Company for Equipment Production and Tools, which has also been sold because they don't even know who bought it. It's mentioned some Austrian owner, it's mentioned that it's our man, but it hasn't continued its production trend, it's already been fired by workers. Also, privatisation, i.e. contractual obligations of the purchased plant protection company, bought by the owner who robbed the company, were cut off from work. Where there's justice, where there's law, where everything he stole is, which is why he didn't bring it back. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look backwards, right now in this pre-election campaign, and if we go back to that time, I wonder if the DS has called for responsibility, that's what I said about this speaker, now the presidential candidate, and their President Boris Tadic, that at Skopje's airport, he shakes hands with the greatest criminal of the Serbian people, Thaci, the man who killed, raped our children, mothers, sisters, and that Boris Tadic gave him his hand. Gentlemen, we don't welcome ourselves here, even though we know each other well, we're political opponents, so maybe sometimes we look at each other differently, and one man who represents a state that represents a political party, that he does so with his gesture. I don't know if you as a political party called for Boris Tadic's responsibility, because Boris Tadic, in fact, continued his criminal policy where Zoran Djindjic stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14924	Please, what does that mean to you? Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) National MP Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14925	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the SPS, which I submitted to Article 26, is actually in co-operation with the union. Article 26. The bill says: "A privatisation entity that on the day of entry into force of this law has minority social capital transfers 70% of that capital to the Action Fund. In the case referred to in Article 1 of this Article, employees shall be transferred without a charge of 30% of social capital, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 42 and 44. The privatisation law" follows the score "after the sale of capital from the Action Fund" and through this amendment we asked that part be deleted afterwards. It means to delete "after the sale of capital from the Action Fund". Why do the union or employees' representatives insist on such an amendment? So, after all, employees of social enterprises, or privatization entities, no longer trust anyone, because experience is also too harsh in what has been past, in what has been privatized over the past few years. There are hundreds and thousands of examples where fraud and kidnapping of property acquired by sweat and the blood of employed workers or, according to fellow MPs, the robbery that was committed. (President: Please don't throw it away, Mr. Todorovic. ) So the question is how right it is, in fact, that it was passed by law - that 50% of the sale of social enterprises' capital belongs to the state, means that they sell social property and that only 5% are transferred to local self-government. So, when it comes to this social property, many companies are literally, in the right sense, created by a long-term accumulation of funds at the end of the year, used to expand production, to improve, to build new plants. There are many cases that indeed during that early period of socialism people were day and night in these companies, and they really made the sweat and blood come to the progress of this social property, that is, their businesses, and then the state takes them away. We have numerous examples of this abuse or kidnapping of social property, i.e. capital in privatisation entities. For example. Bambi, who was a world-renowned company in Pogorevec, which was very productive, was voiced in the earlier period, provided good placement, good export, large salaries for employees. After privatisation, she slowly shuts down actually in Pogorevec, because the new owners move that factory where it suits them. One minute, the area will be left and those plants without what they were production and what Bambi was in the Fireman. Like milkmen, for example. in Petrovac, Mlava, which is privatised, it is also no longer interesting for the area, as new owners move the dairy elsewhere, employees remain jobless and as if it never was. The next example, which is why workers are looking through this amendment to the change of this proposal in Article 26, we have in the village of Mustapić, the municipality of Kučevo, that in the bankruptcy mass of the cattle food factory from Požarec, Prižanka, earlier self-legal transformations, this pig farm, the capacity of 20 throats in the tour, otherwise owned by the Agricultural Cooperative of PEC from Kučev. The farm was actually united without any compensation in the earlier or present process, when it was necessary for it to function, and later when there was a moment of privatisation, there was no will of the state and the authorities, regardless of the explicit demand of the PEC farmer's cooperative, to come together and actually to return the cooperative property to where it was. Here he was interested in keeping the farm within the company to be privatised, and when recently the Minister of Agriculture came to the municipality of Kučevo, he promoted a new owner, a member of the DS, and then it was clear why it was done in such a way. The second example of an exemplar and reckless privatisation, at least when it comes to what the interests of employees are, is the privatisation of the Kučevo Forest Industrial Comb, where privatisation was made several months ago and the combination sold to a German, who tried to organize, or at least it seemed, the production of a waterproof splinter-plate for the needs of his firm in Germany. It didn't work out, or at least that's how it was introduced. He sold some machines, and then there was a break-up of the privatisation contract. Then the creditors sought bankruptcy by emergency procedure and sought the fulfillment of their obligations. It just happened that about 500 workers were left on the street, with no rights whatsoever. Where they were - nowhere, what they were doing - nothing, everything went to waste. So, there are countless examples of such privatisations that, in fact, in one process, once ran, only to get rid of the state with the torment of acquired property that belonged to people, which belonged to this society or in the wider meaning of our country. Just to get rid of it, it's like it's Alajbe's straw and it's not necessary anymore, without taking care of what the real interests of employees, workers, are, which is the real interest of the state. What we had here about privatisation, which was mentioned by MP Bojan Milovanovic, MP of the SPS, about privatisation, where 5% is meant for local self-government, means we have cases that certain factories, certain plants, certain companies during self-government transformations have joined larger systems, and then afterwards it remains within such large systems, are now privatized and never created in these smaller municipalities. The 5% that belongs to the privatisation of those enterprises, those plants or factories, or the capacities located in the territory of the interior, in smaller municipalities, goes to where large companies are based, usually Belgrade or some major centre, and everything needs larger centres, larger economic centres of power, etc., without taking account of what is even the slightest need in the interior of these small municipalities. There is no talking about what is the principle and what is said here when the government is formed, about keeping track of what is the even economic development of Serbia throughout the territory or the incentive of these undeveloped environments. I think that with such a policy, which is also seen here in the privatisation process, we will come to the fact that Serbia, not only in the population and the essential social or state sense, but also in the economic sense, will be aware of the Belgrade Pashalu. For these reasons and feelings of what the needs of workers, employees who have done a great injustice, and according to what is the interest of the interior and less developed municipalities, the SPS proposes such amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-24-0.u14926	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? (No) I conclude the review of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Laslo Varga and Alexander Marton. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Law on Free Action and Money Refunds by National MPs: Meho Omerović, Vladan Batić, Slobodan Maraš, together Aleksandra Jerkov and Aleksandar Marton, Radovan Radovanović, Rajko Baralić, Bojan Milovanovic, Milisav Petronijević, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic, Miletić Mihajlović, Vidoje Jovanovic, Dusan Bajatović, Željko Vasiljevic, Suzana Grubšević, Srdjan Šajin, Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Rade, Milorad Bjatović, Nebojsko Vassilić, Žiljana Grubšić, Mirović and Mražan Marković. You have received reports from the Privatisation Committee and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Suzanne Grubjesic, by letter dated 12 December 2007 to Articles 26 and 28 and submitted a new amendment to Article 26 by letter of 13 December 2007 to Articles 1, 24, 29 and 30, and by letter dated 20 December 2007 to Article 26; Bojan Milovanovic, by letter dated 13 December 2007, amendment to Article 2(2), and amendment to Article 2(2), paragraph 1 point 4 and submitted a new amendment to Article 2; Srdjan Šijn, by letter dated 18 December 2007, amendment to Article 6; Nikola Novaković, at a session of the Privatisation Committee, amendments to Articles 23 and 26. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vladan Batic tabled an amendment proposing a change in the title of the bill. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Privatisation Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Privatisation Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
