ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1657	Thank you. Mr. Dulic, you were in front of Serbian citizens last night who were watching certain television... (President: I apologize, which member? ) Of course, Article 104. You must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You completely trampled the dignity of the National Assembly last night, Mr. Dulic, with your conduct. You're alone, the truth is, you said you were a doctor, you weren't a lawyer, and you still don't know the Rules of Procedure, you were just teaching him. That was really scary. Do you think you've been elected, Mr. Dulic, as Parliament Speaker, to put a cast on the MPs, to set your wrists or don't know what, or to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? You should have learned the Rules of Procedure before you sat in that seat. You have also acted absolutely as a representative of the Democratic Party and made insults at the expense of Serbian Radical Party MPs, the largest parliamentary group in this parliament. Mr. Dulic, in public appearances, you must act as president of the National Assembly. At your party meetings you can speak of both the SRS and any other party you want, but you can't say that one of your conversants, last night, is your friend and that the representatives of her party are your friends and that's why you will have a particularly respectful relationship with them. Mr. Dulic, you don't have friends in this House, you have MPs, you're the Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr. Dulic, and you have to act like one. You weren't supposed to say last night, Mr. Dulic, that what happened to glued posters called "Bulevar Ratko Mladic" is just another SRS whim, to narrow down the round of topics we're going to talk about and that, roughly, we need to let ourselves blow out, to finish what we have, and then you, I don't know how, Mr. Dulic, to close the circle of topics the SRS is going to talk about. It is also terrible what announcements for the future Rules of Procedure you made last night in the public of Serbia. And, of course, it's your opinion (as you said - that's my opinion, that's my view) that Ratko Mladic is a criminal; it's unacceptable to say that as president of the assembly. They had to teach you, Mr. Dulic, that Roman law has the principle of presummation of innocence and that everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. As president of the National Assembly, you must take care of your public statements, Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1658	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the MPs of Nenad Bogdanovic and Andrea Galgo-Ferenci have been prevented from attending the sittings. We move to a joint search of the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda: – THE NAME OF THE SECRETARY AND OF THE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF SERBIA A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint search on the third and fourth points of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group Serbian Radical Party - one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group - one hour 16 minutes 48 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia - New Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - 56 minutes 24 seconds, the G17 plus - 22 minutes 48 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - 19 minutes 12 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democratic Party - 13 minutes 12 seconds, the parliamentary group of the Duchy of Hungarians, the List of Sandzak, the Union of Roma Serbia, the Coalition of Albanians Presevo Valley - 7 minutes 12 seconds, the Vojvodjan group - LSV, SVM - 6 minutes, and MPs that do not belong to any of 5 minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint search on a proposal for candidates for the appointment of the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who was tabled by the National Assembly president and by proposals from candidates for the appointment of the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the National Assembly's Administrative Board. Does the Management Board's rapporteur Dragan Todorovic want to explain the candidate's proposal for the appointment of the National Assembly's secretary and deputy secretary of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, according to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, no one submitted. I'm sorry. National MP Verica Radeta, as representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I will address the President of Parliament, Mr Dulic. On Friday, Mr. Dulic, you angered a large number of Serbian citizens who were in front of the parliament building about half-one. Then you came out of there, and people said: there is a young man coming out; some have even recognized you, and many do not yet know you. After you came out four more of your bodyguards and jumped into cars; you, of course, before them. Then the police stopped the traffic. You, Mr. Dulic, have upset all those people so that you can, imagine, drive to the building across from Boris Tadic. That's really amazing. I think the citizens of Serbia will only be upset when they hear who you're planning to appoint as one of the deputy secretary of the National Assembly. Of course, you're the president, you have a congregation majority, it's your right to choose your associates. For this reason, we don't normally have the practice of talking about Parliament's president's proposals when it comes to secretaries and deputies, but today we really need to make an exception. First, as for the secretary of parliament, Serbian Radical Party MPs voted for the secretary, elected him, and of course we have no idea that we are doing it again. It is the right of Mark Danilovic to resign. He did it. I'm sure it wasn't his will and he didn't expect it. Vojislav Kostunica succumbed to the pressures of Boris Tadic and showed exactly how much he doesn't care about his people and how important he is to himself. If it sends down its closest associates, then indeed the citizens of Serbia should wonder how much this man cares about Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Of course, he doesn't care, he's shown it many times. Mr. Dulic, your proposal for a secretary is, as I said, your choice. The lady you suggested as secretary formally meets the conditions when your party is and you have the majority. It's all about your party, your agreement, and we certainly don't want to interfere with you, but what you're trying to do, Mr. Dulic, you and your assembly majority, to involve representatives of NGOs in Parliament's work, it's really scandalous. Today we have your proposal for one of the deputy secretaries, and you choose Milos Todorovic, who is... It says in his biography when he was born, a graduate lawyer, etc. That's not interesting at all. It's all like that. He said he was the initiator of a student protest at the Faculty of Law and a member of the initial board of student protests in 1996-1997. The founder is the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, in which he worked as director of the educational programme and then as executive director. From 2000 to 2004, he was an observer of Cesida at the Republic Election Commission. He is the author of the book "Operating Manipulations" and one of the authors of the bill on the selection of MPs and councilors, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on Political Parties. He works as an expert consultant for the Democratic Party's parliamentary group from 2004 to 2006 in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and has also been engaged for the purposes of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Serbian citizens, we from the Serbian Radical Party in the Republic Election Commission have been arguing, since Cesid got involved in the elections, that Cesid is no electoral commission and that he is no independent organisation. Cesid is an organisation formed by money from the West to bring DOS to power and to support the Democratic Party of Zoran Djindjic later on in election manipulations, or Boris Tadic. Now you, Mr. Dulic, have been putting everything we've talked about on the plate for years and admiting that Cesid is an organization that works for the Democratic Party. I am now asking you who have been banging in pots and pots, burning the Assembly and stealing pictures, chairs, furniture and lynching people in front of the Assembly, all of which you have done for the regularity of the elections and for the recognition of the alleged will of Serbian citizens in these elections – how you have the cheeks and you have to speak at all about any theft of the elections, when you plant a cowardly egg like this on Serbian citizens and when the representatives of Cesid were divine how respected observers. Of course, we've always challenged it, and we've always claimed what you've actually told us. We in the Serbian Radical Party and our representatives in the Republic Election Commission were always against Cesid being empowered to follow the elections, because (among others, Zoran Krasic and I were in the Republic Election Commission) received information from the field that some names overlap on election committees and turned out to be members of the Democratic Party and members of the Cesids were the same people. Your same municipal committees failed, so they proposed them at the same polling stations. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party has always expressed its position on NGOs publicly and openly, and we will continue to do so. We need to draw attention to Serbian citizens that this is obviously just the beginning; today Milos Todorovic is one of the candidates, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco will appear tomorrow. Sonja Licht won't, because you, Mr. Dulic, are her frame; she suggested you and supported you, she also said that on one of the TVs. Then she confirmed her position on you with her opinion shared with her friends who then commented that doctors in health homes should not receive sick Serbian radicals. Of course, she accepted it because she did not react as one of the famous human rights fighters, and she got a bunch of money from abroad, as all NGOs in Serbia are getting. Professor Smilja Avramov recently published the book "Civil Society and NGOs". There is indeed a lot of data in that book, the recognition of some NGOs, or representatives of NGOs, to be financed by the United States and the CIA, and among those organisations is Cesid and the Fund for Humanitarian Law, the Resistance has preceded its time. This is where Professor Smilja Avramov brought out the specific figures that were received and why they were received. Of course, everything that we from the SRS know and speak back for years has been confirmed – that Zoran Djindjic would come to power should have made these NGOs a lot of money from the CIA and the United States. That's really what happened. Thanks to all this money, what you called democratic change happened. And how are we under these democratic changes? Yesterday I read a good aphorism in which the aphorist says – every day we get better, all we have to do is endure it. Thanks, of course, to DOS policy, which has been in power for seven years in Serbia. When I say seven years, then of course, what you say, you had continuity, you didn't have, and we claim it is continuity, we claim that from Zoran Djindjic to Vojislav Kostunica all DOS leaders are exactly the same, just a little different physical. Of course, all of them are supported by NGOs. We Serbian radicals would have nothing, in principle, against NGOs if those organisations were truly independent, if they were financed over 50% from Serbia; then, of course, they would not have a boss from abroad. When it comes to these NGOs, I wonder, apart from the Red Cross, if there's another one that isn't, because all these NGOs have bosses abroad, and whoever pays you, you have to listen, even if it costs you the state. You, unfortunately, are acting exactly that way, and even the president of parliament, among other things, said last night that he expects a solution that will be good even for Serbia for the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. Believe it or not, that's what he said. So, let's make it good for everyone, but let's make it even a little bit for Serbia. Mr. Dulic, probably why you choose one of his associates, Mr. Milos Todorovic, probably put you on the same payroll as he and his organization have long since, or since its founding. NGOs, which are overly important in Serbia, in fact on some televisions that unfortunately have national frequencies, are independent only of Serbian citizens and of the interests of Serbian citizens. These NGOs are also related to governments of various Western countries, primarily the United States, and are precisely trying to use them to make Serbs and citizens of Serbia such as that through the story of civil society. You call SRS representatives retrograde, and you are modern, because you are not working in Serbia's interest and because you are not financing in Serbia, you are financing... Some of you who are now sitting in the benches of the MPs were also members and senior officials of NGOs. You know best how lucrative it is for you personally, but I don't think you're stupid enough not to understand how harmful it is for the interests of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, how harmful it is for everything that's been happening to us for the past seven years, and before that, even though you have the habit of connecting everything with some former regime, although I don't know what the former regime is, given that the former regime of Kostunica was the Zoran Djindjic regime. The bottom line is that NGOs and non-governmental organisations are the biggest evil in Serbia today, which you, unfortunately, are trying to infiltrate officially in the work of this parliament. That, Mr. Dulic, is something we couldn't expect from you either, regardless of what you did to Sonja Licht, which she set you up here, and she didn't tell you that you needed to learn the Rules of Procedure, which, as I said, you confessed last night. So, Mr. Dulic, actually, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS will vote for this proposal. We will vote against the proposal to make Mr. Milos Todorovic deputy secretary. As I was saying, if you hadn't put this drastic proposal in place, we probably wouldn't have been involved in a debate about the secretary and the deputy secretary. Perhaps Mrs. Tamara Stojcevic will do better by the Rules of Procedure than Mr. Marko Danilovic has done before, and perhaps he is angry with his President Kostunica for playing him so in these internal trange-frange businesses, so for this reason he does not want to help you, but I really do not know what kind of assistance you expect from the National Assembly from the representatives of Cesid. I'm still going to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you're going to vote for this proposal, does this mean that since the next election, Cesid will no longer be an election observer, does this mean that if the DS has its own observers in the election that he can't go through Cesid's representatives to have twice as many as the other parties? We expect, if you wrote this to us and told us, that in the next election, the DS representative was only one person, a natural person, and whether he was from Cesid or DS, it was completely irrelevant, because you, or Mr Dulic, as a proposing, admitted that Cesid was part of DS, that Cesid with the DSS had destroyed the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia, that Cesid with Djindjic and Kostunica had burned the Assembly. You yourself wrote that this gentleman you're proposing to be deputy secretary was in that task force who was making draft election laws. What are your proposals and what are your laws, ladies and gentlemen, that is your condition, especially in local self-government, precisely thanks to the Cesida's proposal to elect a mayor in direct elections. Today, half the local self-government is not working because an agreement cannot be reached between the assembly majority and the president of the local parliament if it is not from the same party or from the same coalition. So, what Mr. Todorovic recommends for you, for us there are absolutely reasons to vote against this proposal, Mr. Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1660	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to the MP, Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, and let MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda topic -- the choice of secretary and deputy secretary of the National Assembly, is not negligible because of the fact that the Secretary of the National Assembly plays a very important role in the functioning of the highest legislative body. If that were the case, it was the first negative trend that started with DOS coming to power after the five-octobaric coup, and it was reflected in the appointment of a fully-vulnered man, with extremely negative work experience, as secretary, which is already the famous Georgia Maric. That's when the shooting list at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by you who, by burning down the Assembly and state television, came to power, began just by taking off your head, so to speak, the then deputy secretary, Ms. Marici Savic. Since I am watching this session run, you have gathered to vote on a proposal for Ms Tamara, for Mark Danilovic and for this unfortunate Todorovic, a question has been raised for all of us who have been here for over a decade, Mr Nikolic has since the renewal of the multi-party MP, and this and the Federal Assembly has been presented, as you have explained to the gentleman sitting next to you. Since I have been working on parliamentary work, and this has, for 12 years now, been Mr. Perisa Jovanovic or the Secretary of the Federal Government, the Government of Radoj Kontic, or the Secretary of the Council of Citizens, the Greater Republic, and then only since three years ago, the deputy secretary. We never, at the time of the rule of the SPS of the 1990s, when we were opposition to the regime at the time, voted for the appointment of Mr. Parrish to none of those functions that I counted. I really apologize to him if I left something out, but it's a job for a man of great legal experience, and that's what a secretary and a deputy secretary should do. You, colleagues from the Democratic Party, say so – yes. Well, it is, but these proposed ones, and especially this Todorovic has no reference, not nearly as close as Mr Jovanovic has, or, seven or six years ago, replaced in five minutes by Mrs Marica Savic, because it is people who, by political lines and strictly by quotas, who you, within the Kostunica-Tadic coalition, have determined, come to these key functions in the National Assembly. I, as a People's MP, and the SRS parliamentary group, will continue to advocate that in the National Assembly eventually, and this will happen by taking over power from the SRS, a law similar to that of the Russian Federation. The Russian State Duma, on the proposal of Mr Vladimir Putin, was very explicit with regard to the operation of the so-called NGOs. You know, to destroy a country, to destroy its integrity in the world, to humiliate the reputation of our country and our people, as certain NGOs do, it's unacceptable for such a country to return to its traditional values, its culture and tradition. Cesid, whose member is Mr. Todorovic, one of the deputy secretaries' candidates, is currently working on a completely different project. And not only that, what Mrs. Radeta was talking about, which is what the distinguished professor Smilja Avramov writes about; you saw on several occasions in the daily "Justice" that the felton was coming out to finance these so-called "Justice". NGOs... We have to do everything as a state, and it will be our pledge to adopt the budget and all the accompanying laws this year, to see how these NGOs finance themselves. The question is, what are you up to, and how long do you think that's gonna get you? As for the individuals sitting here, from a failed political organisation, do not forget that they were first called "Resistance", so they were ordered to tear down the regime on October 5th, a later group gathered, increasingly smarter than the one who is allegedly smart and say - we register as a political party and go to the elections. Really funny, I don't know if Bupkina or what stick they need to skip the censorship, what did they imagine? You went to this variant that by now incorporating the Resistance as a political organization, not more like that instrumentalised movement by America and the West, you would get quality and what is called Western European democracy values. Those values that your parliamentary group promotes, you as Parliament Speaker, we heard, last night you performed on anti-Serbian TV B92 when you spoke about your intentions. So, you're going to improve the work of the Assembly, by what I could hear, not by promoting it. I must, for the sake of the public, present only some information relating to this famous Cesid organization and tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs who are sitting on this left side of me, who are earnestly trying to get a chance for Cesid as an NGO, and you are fighting for it all these years, to follow the election process, for Serbian radicals to over eight thousand polling stations, and usually we have two, mostly an extended assembly, and three or four extremely trained members of the electoral board, every appearance, since you gave that opportunity to Cesida, anyone from that so-called. The observation missions mean that someone who shows up has to go to the cabin, so he goes to the corners, sits there and can just watch. Anyone who dares, and a member is so-called. Cesida, if she had a voter list in front of her, to deal with lobbying in the polling post, which they are doing for the Democratic Party's account, is being removed from the polling post and in the polling stations where the presidents and vice presidents of the Serbian Radicals are doing so simply cannot happen, because we know where such a place is, and where those who really are state and legitimate political parties verify that they are following the election process. In his work, Cesid had the support of many donors and I'm just going to mention some. Of course, I will translate the names of these foreign organizations, because for you, as Mr. Vukic would say, it is a fancy to list it in the original English name, and it is most important for me to cultivate the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter here: the European Commission, the European Agency for Reconstruction, Charles Stuart Foundation, the Jerman Marshall Foundation, the NGO, the Westminster Organisation and the Foundation for Democracy, be careful who these donors are, "Ulof Palme International Centre", all of them financed the activities of the future deputy secretary (Rockefeller and brothers, it is so in translation), the National Institute of Sweden, "Endijay", etc. It's just some of the financiers, and we as MPs have no insight into it, not just for them, but for this so-called. The Open Society Fund, the Soros Foundation and that disturbed Sonja Licht, who yesterday in the journal of this mentioned TV B 92 spoke in the worst possible way about the SRS... That's because you're pushing for it and think you're going to do something with attacks, hajkom and harang on Serbian radicals and MPs. I will read to you how devastating, how much you have invested in them, all these numerous donors, the role of Cesida, because they themselves have admitted in one of the latest reports (and I believe that this Todorovic will therefore be the unsuccessful deputy secretary) that their mission in Serbia has failed. You see what they say, one of their tasks was to build them – and from there I see your vocabulary, Mr. Dulic, I return to your exposés, obviously they have had an impact on you – pro-European democratic cultures, imagine, through strengthening the capacity of the creator of public opinion. That capacity was supposed to be Cesid and all those who belong to Cessida, and, of course, well-paid volunteers. When the ones you find in the cities of Serbia and have no idea what the electoral law is or how the elections are conducted, and when they get the pucks and send them to this corner where they're going to sit, they say – so we're only here for money, we're well paid; it's paid by Americans, Soros, we don't know who, sold for a handful of dollars. No wonder, when the highest representatives of the government, the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the entire government can do so, that individuals who are followers of such a policy say -- which we cannot do once, in one or two days of the election process. The study, they said, brought about the values of the electoral body in Serbia, and they say it is an empirical project conducted by Cesida since 2001, you have come to a devastating knowledge. When you go to some forest village and send this Cesid volunteer, with all of Todorovic or Lucic at the head, you come to the defeating, for you, to learn that you and your policy of unconditional fulfillment of all conditions, to keep people out of work, to have nothing to eat, to have nothing to teach children, to sell and sell out the state and the whole territory, no one will. They themselves admitted that, in general, the citizens, they say, among the dominant values of the electoral body that should tend to change the present sense of nationality, belonging to the state of Serbia, belong to its values, belonging to the idea that the SRS is promoting -- that we cannot blindly listen to all those who come to you and who give you orders and beat you to the pucks, but that we must turn to what we are as a people, what we have as a tradition in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and these innovations, go ahead, so let them promote in these countries that are listed here, and you look well at the brothers of the Russians. What's the secretary of the National Assembly's job? What's the job of the president? What's the job of all the employees? To improve the business of the service, to allow the MP to do his job in quality, to allow MPs all technical equipment, right? The question is what you have and who has touched you all in yours, as you like to say, to the offices and how you supply yourself, and your committees in Serbia. It is a question that will one day come on the agenda, as well as how many have funded the past elections on January 21st, when none of these activities, the said Cesid or anyone, could affect the electoral body. People wanted to beat the SRS. We won. Let me tell you, all this research, this volunteering for good mercenaries, for mercenaries who work against their country and their people, will lead you to the brink of doom, and that is what comes after the next election. And to return to that measure that follows you, and I mean you yellows from the DS. Kostunica to experience the fate of JUL and to come to that level from 1992, when DEPOS existed, and that is very difficult. I'm going to tell you what real research is, so you don't blindly trust these mercenaries who are so richly funded and who you support, because in all the committees of the SRS, and we really have the most homogeneous, most organised, most disciplined political party, the best organized in all of Serbia, the SRS activists all these days, from choices to today, when you combined to create a new tycoon government, carry out the "safe vote" action. The results are more than defeating for you: not only 50% plus one vote for the SRS, but they even exceed our expectations, which means our success and victory in the upcoming local and presidential elections is assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1662	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the messenger of Dr. Paja Momchilov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1663	This item of the agenda is not a mere technical issue, as the proposings of this decision try to present it to the very fact that they are not interested in the debate. They are not interested in the debate because some mathematics, based on which democracy is valued, exists, so there are more than 126 votes and the proposed candidates will be elected. They would probably have been chosen, as was once said in 1991, when elections were held, whoever Milosevic hooked up with the picture, would have been elected an MP. This then showed the strength of a party that had over 180 mandates. You see for yourself, when someone has about 130 votes, he thinks he's got everything and he can do anything. That's the d.S.-led faller of democracy and the entire spectrum of spy, terrorist, conspiracy organizations under different names and codes. Of course, it fits into one concept when an ordinary voter creates an image that hears the same voice on multiple sides, and then it creates an impression, like, they're all for some changes. That's how another thing ends, to get an excuse for the media when it starts with the burning of the Assembly, which is, of course, a democratic act. That's how some taught us. Just to remind you, that understanding of democracy meant that there were elections for the president of the SRJ, and the Republic government fell. Why? Because in this building, Zoran Djindjic threatened that unless the government fell, he would invite people and burn this assembly. At the time someone got scared and said, "Well, come on, let's go to the transitional government." I want to go back to this, for some technical questions. An important function is the secretary of the National Assembly. And that it is important best shows the Law on civil servants. He was raised to a much higher level. He's a clerk. What is our experience with the secretary of the National Assembly? I have to say, half. We used to have professionals, experts, who, above all, knew very well all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and tried to help the President of the National Assembly during the conduct of the session, made sure that all the services in the National Assembly function impeccably, in order to be in the function of Members who serve, in the function of serving working bodies, and to perform not only protocol, but also other, much more important jobs. The real sunroof of the secretary's function occurred from the day the DOS began to tailor the cap at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me remind you, at the time, we had a lady who was more retired than she was Secretary Angelka Dimitrijevic. How did she understand the post of secretary, at the address of the president of the DOS parliamentary group sitting in this place here, which is usually radiating? The opposition MPs couldn't even photocopy the text of the law if they forgot it at home. They're taking from a fellow copy to go photocopying, and Angelka has to paraphrase for those two sheets of paper to copy it. Of course, it's democratic, and it's particularly democratic because it was all directed by the DS. I hope you understand that this is now a democratic standard. It is also a democratic standard that opposition MPs could not by official car go to their party's headquarters to take some material needed to work in the National Assembly, but therefore DOS MPs, who was in power, could also take the official car to Istanbul. Yes, yes, and for God's sake, a lady was able to fly to Montenegro on a plane and return to attend a meeting of the National Assembly when a quorum was needed. These ladies aren't in the National Assembly today. People know, I don't want to talk about names, I don't want to talk about this selective approach that really exposes secretaries when they have as a hat president of the National Assembly or, in the worse version, the president of a parliamentary group that has a majority, or the president of a parliamentary group that belongs to the president of the National Assembly. Of course, I don't want to convince you that it's abuse of position, that it's abuse of function, that it's a selective approach. I would refrain from commenting. So much spent text in these proposals that should point to exceptional expertise. You know everything. If there comes a verified party staff of DS Secretary of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will be a front for the Democratic Party, and there is the end of the story. Is her name Tamara, Maya, is her name Ivan absolutely not important. Of course, I know all those names very well and I know those people. I just want to draw your attention that the expertise you're talking about has absolutely nothing to do with it, because it's so-called. The contractors, as said by Zoran Djindjic, the verified contractors, who, in a private conversation with you, can say that it was regulated by the rules of procedure, but in practice it will not happen, because above the party stands, the president of the parliamentary group, the president of the National Assembly and the president across the street who dictates and seduces his order. So, if during the run for National Assembly president's office, the candidate said there's gonna be some new people, there's no new people here. These are all relapses of the past, there are no new people. If he meant new people in the Assembly, I don't know why he's attacking Dragoljub Micunovic. If you could replace a man, replace that in the Democratic Party, don't change a man because he is a member of the Democratic Party in the National Assembly. Don't enter the electoral will of the people. Let me go back to something called the deputy secretary. You see, in that party redistribution, I would have to say -- a kind of party political perversion that is happening because of the cohabitation, which gives its children, there happened to be no room for Periša Jovanovic. What did he do wrong? What did he prove to be no expert on? An extremely professional lawyer, probably for 20 years and a few years, has been doing this job. But he doesn't answer to the president of the National Assembly and the Democratic Party. Why isn't he answering? Because those who sponsored Cesid from abroad no longer give money, so the National Assembly has to finance Cesid. Milos Todorovic deserved, according to the criteria of the Democratic Party. And he was torn up and stained, and with his bike, he was coming to RIK to be an observer. After each session of RIK, the one called Blagojevic, or that vain mathematician, with his estimates. Who are they representing? They're, like, political analysts, and they're about like literary critics -- they don't have the illusion of doing literature, so they solve their handicap by criticizing those who create. Political analysts, around, some fela, the result of some perversion, which should not go to the polls, because they are sure that they would not pass, but therefore they would like to "grab" on the basis of some of their professions. This is how Slaviško appears from Kosovo Mitrovica, some Orlovic. The whole of Kosovo Mitrovica laughs, but it is possible as a phenomenon when the Faculty was taken over by Podunavac, "the sparrow of the Danube". Serbia is surrounded by spies, which is secretive to the public, who boast of their actions. So Milos Todorovic does not meet the criteria of expertise. Why? He never gave an objective report, he was never an objective observer. I have to distract you, we don't have a category of NGOs anymore, they're all government or democratic. These are all the organizations of the Democratic Party. She's a Democratic Party. Its strength is in that breadth, the capillary functioning of different phenomena on our political market, which should cloud things and make an impression, like, most of them there, most of them for this Europe, etc. What else is characteristic of the post of secretary? If it's not a real expert, but a double of his own party, then we'll have a Bodrum. You're probably getting ready for some Bodrum. You're probably getting ready for Thessalonica, the Thessaloniki vote, and it's liquid. Let me remind you, the secretary has allowed some to vote. Just to remind you, Bojan Pajtic has somehow avoided criminal responsibility, and that Srdjan Mitrovica. Some others have testified and it is known who faked the elections here, who faked the vote at the National Assembly. He stole the election will of the people. We had opportunities to have MPs of the mirage; the hour is in Bodrum, the hour here, the hour in Montenegro, but also here at the vote. Just to remind you, G17 plus was making a report, so it was exactly who he was sitting where he was sitting, who voted, how he voted, why he voted, whose card he voted on. All this was possible thanks to the secretary. When the Democratic Party is in office in the Assembly, you can expect something worse here. Now we can expect only innovation in these worst things, something much, much worse. That proves our experience. We don't need to read stenograms; we can also read stenograms to prove all that. These are generally known facts that don't prove themselves. Everyone knows that. I have to draw attention to the fact that there was a foreign organization in this building in 2001 and 2002 that allowed DOS to use the fourth floor room where they were listening. And then you threw out when the mess broke. Yeah, yeah, you got kicked out later. Let me remind you, this is the room where Vesic, Sutanovac, the Sekulovic, entered, and later the organisation was moved into this building, as it is called, "Belgrade". You can laugh, just so you know, I'm your bankruptcy manager. You're kind of a survivor now. As a political party, as a political organization you got something, in that sense you survived. You're scrambling, you're falling apart, you're disappearing. Why? Because every day I will inform the citizens of Serbia what democratic standards of the democratic bloc are. Here, you see how dangerous it is when someone hangs out with a democratic block. Even one of the democratic bloc's finances escaped from them, William Montgomery. Did you hear what Cavtat said? And you got sick of him, even though you were his means, his tools in the dirty business. He's distanced himself from you. So does he. It's just that whoever plantes pumpkins with you knows what's waiting for him. I have to warn the citizens of Serbia in time what can happen, not to say tomorrow – well, we didn't know, they're young, beautiful, nice, etc. The fact that they're experts, that's what we've interpreted. It just means that it's about people who need expertise, because they've got expertise in a gutter. You see for yourself: a man graduates from medical school, now attends an education from European politics. What does medicine and European policy have to do with it? But it's taken a function, it's acquired some functions to complete one stage of dirty work. There's always new Trojan horses. It changes, some new personalities come, these are the new faces. He says a new cultural view, a new culture in the National Assembly. Well, let's get this straight with the old culture first; the vote from Bodrum, the theft of MPs, the exorcism of MPs, we can sort it out by tomorrow. It's all the liquids of the Democratic Party. We in the Assembly, when someone joins the coalition with the Democratic Party, we all become prisoners of the Democratic Party. Back in the day, Hope Kolundzija was at Covic's, she was always in the Democratic Party. Someone used to go to that Perisic guy, and later it turns out he's never been to Perisic's, he's always been to the Democratic Party. So, this tendency to plant, the acting is very pronounced with the Democratic Party. Those of you who vote, though I can see that the DSS didn't even get in, what's going to get in, they're tearing themselves apart. You're a mess, you're efficient, you're an honor. No one can understand them alive. Absolutely no one can understand what their policy is. For a man to be prime minister, he's able to sell everything, give everything up. So did he commit so much crime that he cared so much about the place? The only man who's such a criminal holds such a strong one function and doesn't let anything go for a living. Come on, researchers, journalists, look at his business. Maybe there's something going on over the swastika. Maybe he's doing business with some of the public enterprises where his people, the oil industry, the electrics, Telekom. He may be doing business with Olja Bećkovic, for example, which seems amazing to you, and seems quite possible to me. I can expect anything from Vojislav Kostunica. He wiped out the entire parliamentary group, the whole party. Why did he delete it? There's probably something behind it, but I don't want to stick my finger around these people. It's not their fault they have such a president who runs such a policy. I urge all MPs in the National Assembly to bear in mind for a moment what I said and to be fully aware that by voting for these candidates, the Democratic Party assumes responsibility, cooperate with the Democratic Party. And, based on some experience I have in the Assembly, I am informing them in advance – please do not complain to me later on in the hallway. Don't complain to me later, because I won't have the understanding of this moaning, since you're guilty, you're the very creators of your own parliamentary happiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1664	The word has been issued by MP Paja Momcilov. Let MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1665	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have heard from my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, Serbian radicals cannot vote for the Secretary of Parliament, a new proposal, and deputy secretaries. Two are basic reasons. The first reason is because we chose the secretary once before, it was recently. We have chosen one competent person who meets all our criteria to meet the secretary of the National Assembly. The second reason is that we have unskilled proposals for the deputy secretary today. What's even more important is that we have a reintroduction into the political practice of political similarity, which certainly says that this country is becoming a party state, and I'm free to even say that it's perhaps a totalitarian democracy that's being introduced here we've said what are the main reasons why we can't support such proposals. When it comes to the wrangling over the election of the previous president of the Assembly and the election of the Secretary of the Assembly (who you were all witnesses, right) if a man wanted to write a hrostomat of political debauchery, then he certainly couldn't have avoided putting this as the most radical examples of how insolence is being conducted in life. There is one other thing that is often heard in these benches and in this home – that by such a choice, by selecting the secretary we have already chosen and by selecting the president of Mr Tomislav Nikolic's Assembly, we are returning 20 years back. To inform the MPs that there is no return, that every moment is authentic and that we have a new reality today. We need to be aware of the new reality, there's no going back. What is the characteristic of this new reality? Just to remind you, it is the collapse of the institutions of the system and the systematic robbery of citizens of Serbia, which has been carried out just under the command and control of the DOS in the past seven years. That's our reality. Of course, I don't have to explain, it's clear to everyone how it was done through robbery privatisation, with many affairs you've met, I won't talk about it, it's not even the subject of this presentation. Next, you have a clear result, our banking system is destroyed, our economy is destroyed, we have over a million unemployed people, we have 30% of the population that is poor by the world's strictest criteria. It's our reality today. Therefore, Serbian citizens, 30% of citizens, vote for the Serbian Radical Party. You're not talking about the past, this is the new reality that you created, this reality of Serbia's citizens slowly getting more and more banged on the head. I would ask from this place and developed countries of Europe and America – how is it that seven years after the reign of your loved ones here, which you have generously helped both financially and professionally, morally, as you will, unreservedly behind them, you are in a position for Serbian voters to vote for the Serbian Radical Party in this issue? Why is it that seven years after this political experiment with DOS, you still have to threaten the citizens of Serbia and use the dunes to keep this country and the country in isolation? One is the answer, I don't know if it's true, which I am forced to do as possible, which is that you participate together in corrupt activities that rob this country and this people. It is easy to prove, you today open the latest "Economist", which is certainly not the Serbian Radical Party's voice, which is the title – "The Health Robbery System". This is what you write today about your system, how Serbian citizens are robbed through a health system, by paying for non-standard services. Look, on the front page, there is a 220m-euro figure that is drawn from Serbian citizens' pockets. So what now? That's the reality you need to accept and whose creators you are. To return to the matter itself, the choice of these proposed secretaries of yours and the deputy secretary. There were stories when we Serbian radicals resented the election of the president of the assembly, that nothing was opposed but youth. That's not true. In order for someone to be elected, I am talking about the professional functions of the secretary and deputy secretary, there must be: first - qualification, second - competence, third - experience, fourth - responsibility and fifth - reputation. I will not explain again what each of these items means individually. Technically, the proposal for the appointment of Tamara Stojcevic as secretary was given in an appropriate manner and you cannot formally place any objections. However, it is clear, I repeat, we have already chosen a secretary who has had qualifications. Let's play one night, and tomorrow morning we'll think and work another doesn't look like us. A serious political party such as the Serbian Radical Party absolutely does not like it. The fact that it is similar to the Camelot parties (just like that, to the Camelot parties), we don't mind. It is known that the Democratic Party, which has yellow, is now painted red. Now they're members of the International, now they're pushing the socialists off the left wing. Now they're the ones who were the center of the suddenly left. I think that's what it's like for you -- one day, tomorrow, another, one fair and a circus. It is a contribution to decommissioning the system and creating chaos in Serbia's political sky. Now look at Mr. Milos Todorovic's biography. It's a disaster. He was the initiator of a student protest at the Faculty of Law and a member of the Initial Committee of Student Protest 1996/1997. A year. Sir, so he's got political merits. You're reintroducing what we've all criticised in the one-party system -- that it's politically similar. This is a political resemblance and a disaster is when it's the main reason why we need to choose a man in a professional capacity. On the side of his year and on the side of what you're about to see is that there's no work experience. Again, I see it as one matrix, says "the founder of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy". Now, neither is Mr. Founder... That's overrated, isn't it? If that's what he wrote for himself, it's on his side of the idea of overestimation. I'll remind you, he must be the founder of that Big Brother. As to what further says that the gentleman was in Cessid and what he was doing in Cessid for a few years, it's clear that the NGOs, so-called. civil society, in Serbia one farce. It is the reserve contingent of the ruling political option today in Serbia. It's so-called. civil society. It's just an ordinary wretch, and that's why you don't have to hide behind big parolees, behind civil society. If this gentleman, by chance, had applied for a revolutionary committee, say, if he had applied to the colonial relations of the new world order, it would have been a good biography. We would welcome it and say that the gentleman absolutely deserves it, or even we Serbian radicals would recommend him. However, in the end, I would end up with the next question – why are such proposals coming to us? A man must always seek some motive for this kind of action. I've already said I think we're going to have a so-called seduction here. Totalitarian Democracy. I'm not a politician and I'm not a politician, there's a lawyer here, but I'll just remind you what that means and what totalitarian democracy is. It is an absolute dictatorship that is portrayed as a democracy, usually based on the leader's claim to have a monopoly on ideological wisdom. That's what you do. You have a monopoly on ideological wisdom. But then the question is, what happens to civil rights, what happens to true democracy, where there's freedom of the press, religion, conscience, movement, association? You are the crusaders of the new world order and you are the only keepers of the truth. The opposite opinion is not valid. Your opinion, and when 5% of Serbia's citizens chose you, is the rightful opinion. That is what we should worship and respect, and Serbia's citizens as well. Is that democracy, I'm not quite sure. What is recognizable in the method of action of the most extreme aspects of this totalitarian democracy in the image of certain parties is the principle of retribution. That's what Hitler was doing - the principle of retribution. Now you're twisting it into something else called lustration. You'd have been lighting up for something that was 20 or 30 years ago, and for what you've done in seven years, you're totally blind. Therefore, radicals will not vote for this, and Serbian citizens should know what kind of personnel you are setting up and why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1666	Dear MPs, there has been a change in the order of speakers in the Serbian Radical Party. You will now be first approached by the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic, and then by the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1667	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, it is only a technical change, although Mr Albianic tried not to know what to honour the Serbian Radical Party. What the ruling majority representatives are doing is something we have already learned and seen countless times in the Serbian Parliament. It's a people's merry-go-round, it's only important that political parties meet their appetites, that they get through this trade as well as possible. No one asks any questions, no one asks any MPs. It is quite enough that the tops of political parties decided how to satisfy their appetites and that everyone has one representative -- and one will be a deputy, so another will be a deputy, and one will be a secretary, so that everyone will be calm. What's the score? It won't be good, especially when we see who's proposing a regime to possess those places. What is the praise of the representatives of the government? They boast that the people who proposed to serve as head of the Belgrade City Administration, deputy secretary and secretary of the Belgrade City Assembly, were performing the functions of secretaries and deputy secretaries in the Vračar municipality. All functions have been performed in the worst possible way, as citizens of Belgrade and the municipalities mentioned only have objections to acts adopted and brought into those bodies by local administrations, especially everything that has arisen from these acts. It's a common robbery, general kidnapping, thieving and hopelessness that has hit the citizens right in these areas. On the other hand, we have great praise for those who are the founders of Cesid. I guess it's normal to show that those who have been portrayed as independent and objective all the time, are certainly impartial, and in fact there's no difference between them and members of the Democratic Party or the G17 plus or any other political organization... They were only in a more cunning and corrupt way all the time incorporated into your system, into the system of Serbia's citizens' fraud. That's what Serbian citizens see well today. So, respected Serbian citizens, Cesid's representatives are members of the Democratic Party and they become power in the state of Serbia. Both Marko Blagojevic and anyone else can't comment on who and how to get arrested for glued to posters, who and how it should be removed from the seat of the Parliament president, because it stepped up on behalf of the Democratic Party, except it didn't say it was the Democratic Party, so it said the stock market fell when Tomislav Nikolic was elected. I will remind you that today's stock market is at a lower level, but at the time of Tomislav Nikolic's election, and today no one will speak a single word of it. These are things that are absolutely amazing. By the way, you did not inform the public that the euro jumped yesterday because of a criminal authority established today in Serbia. You see, these are people who serve to create public opinion. Their function is not as naive as it seems to some. These secondary social groups were created with a very serious goal – to approach citizens on different sides, and under the influence of independence, the objectivity of various analysts carry out the ideas of the Democratic Party, to implement the ideas of occupiers at Serbia's level. People are not clear, and it seems to them that it has a broader social context and that most of society is about, for that kind of idea. I don't mind, but if you Democratic Party could just shut up a little bit, just so I can concentrate and talk. Mr. Albianic, would you be kind enough to do your job? (President: I will be happy to appease your MPs.) I know they have better things to do now, because now there's a distribution and a robbery of social wealth and they don't really care about listening to the MPs, but if you do it, go out and do it anywhere else, not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You see, about what we've been saying, about these social groups, the fake analysts, about the bowl of cabbage they once get, and by 100 euros they get to lie to the people, you can see what that hack looks like in the last three days. I think that Serbia's citizens since the time that Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the assembly, when the unprecedented haranga of lies, fiction, meaningless stories took place, have not seen a hack run against political inexperiences. Since Saturday, since we have only done what some young men have done, some children have been glued to posters, from that moment on, a general media haranga against the Serbian Radical Party has started, and so there have been various representatives of the Democratic Party, falsely presenting themselves to be analysts, a certain fraud named Todorovic, a certain known secise at the Faculty of Law Goran Ilic, a professor at the Law Faculty, who appeared and said... (President: Mr. Vukicu, but the subject is the choice of secretary and deputy secretary) That's what I'm talking about, because, Mr. Albianic, you who bring that place participate. You didn't listen to me very carefully, and don't interrupt me. So he showed up and said, "Let's chase these people for a crime of calling for resistance." He says, call for resistance, let's go ten years of prison to win. I guess they think they scared us with that heist, the harp, and the lies. You who organized the Resistance against the state of Serbia, there's a copy of that organization somewhere, you who did all this against this country, you're after someone? Here, to make it easier for you, yes, while we're alive, we will resist the occupation regime of the Democratic Party and of all others, while we are alive, while we breathe, in prison, in every place, and we have no fear of you. Come on, arrest, come on, 10 years in prison for a piece of cardboard, whatever you want. Yes, we will fight against you occupiers, we will fight for Serbia's freedom with all permitted and democratic means, and we will not burn the Assembly like you, we will not lynch you, as you lynched political opponents, and in that we differ. Last night, some said, in light of what Tomislav Nikolic said by opposing the regime's dictatorships, opposing the arrest of some children... Those kids are still in jail. I'm surprised nobody cares about that. Those guys are still in jail for glued a piece of cardboard. It was -- it was great that they're in jail, and you, Tomo Nikolic, are bringing them sandwiches, you're better off, or you're going to jail. So it's okay to arrest the kids for cardboard, that's great, I guess it'll work on them properly, so you bring them sandwiches. It's nice to know what kind of message you've sent, that we know what many of the functionators of the occupation regime need one day when educational measures for theft, robbery and theft will affect them. It's important that they get sandwiches, it's important that they feed well in prison, and a serious state will have to provide for thieves and criminals from the occupation regime. At the same time, we heard, he says, those who glued posters support crime. That's the most dangerous lie. I can't talk about those martyrs for 100 euros which are liars and con men to talk a lot about, or the one she organized, which says -- well, maybe they're radicals, we heard in the city, we got some money. And when you tell her that she did it for the money, then she says, let's petition against Alexander Wolficher, because as he can say. And she can come up with such notorious nonsense or a lie, it's all right. At the time of the worst fraud and during the worst scum and media boulders in the country of Serbia, we live and we have to survive it, but we will survive because Serbs and other Serbian citizens have never been afraid to tell the truth to the face and because we will fight for our freedom to fight. You press, beat, arrest, do whatever you want, and don't let the prosecutor of the Fourth District Attorney's Office speak there - the cunning are Vukic, Nikolic, both like this and like this. Go after whatever you want, whatever you want, ten, a hundred years in prison for glued posters, all that can be done, and someone's gonna go after her for thieving in the Mercedes-Benz affair. Everyone according to what he did and how he did, and we don't have any problem with that. You're chasing us because we love freedom, because we love Serbia, because we love the future of our children, and we're going to prosecute you for crime and thieving. We're not going to pursue the B92 because he thought otherwise or because Jerj Sereshi ordered something different and I don't know what. No, we will prosecute them for what they stole from the state of Serbia, which has damaged every citizen in this country by more than 11m euros. Calculate, it's almost a billion dinars, so let the people in Serbia see what it looks like and why it takes a hack on the SRS. The Serbian Radical Party is never and will never support the crime. That's why the SRS so fiercely opposes criminals in power who support a crime against their own state, who support those who bombed Serbia, those who killed little Milica Rakic, those who killed little Sanja in Barvarin. We don't support any crimes. We condemn everyone, and the one when Serbs were killed in Kravica and Muslims were killed in Srebrenica, but we also condemn the greatest crime since World War II, killing and banishing Serbs from Republika Srpska. So don't lie about us supporting the crime. You, ladies and gentlemen of the false democratic bloc, who support criminals, and those you choose to take place are witnesses of friends of criminals, witnesses of friends of murderers and with their money worked all the time against the state of Serbia. Those can't get the voice of Serbian radicals, and you just, ladies and gentlemen, keep going. As you can see, the effect is none of your business. You're afraid of the bear with the grate, we're not afraid of you, we're not afraid of your prisons, we're not afraid of your threats because we have an idea of freedom in front of us, which we're going to follow, and that's why we're going to beat you. Not because we win, but because Serbia wins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1668	I ask you to choose words, no one here supports a crime, and to make sure strictly that we don't present any flat-rate estimates that don't touch the agenda. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, and the next is MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the current deputy secretary is the last professional to do the job in the Assembly, and I congratulate him on everything he's done in his career, and I remember him from a time when he was in the federal government, in which we participated, as the secretary of legislation almost every session was able to oppose and oppose some solutions that were not in line with the Constitution and laws. All of this, after that, is going to be some kind of performance of these functions at the will of the ruling coalition. So I'm telling you right now, our presidents and board members are not going to cooperate with the deputy secretary who came from Cesid, because that would be a humiliation to us, and that would be below the level of dignity of the MP chosen by the people. This can happen only to you, that the messengers should be chosen by the people, and that after that Soroš or Sereshi determine who will rule the congregation and that several MPs do not ask questions about it. Mr. Alexander Vukic has elaborated as much as possible in one oral ad hoc exposure, what happens to countries that are in transition to European colonies. This media service and those foreign organizations in the West might be called NGOs, and they're NGOs here while there's money for it. When their political public takes over, they are also obliged to house them completely, to put them on the state's foot, to take over these and those people and to stay (especially by the laws you'll be changing this week) forever in the state's authorities. Perhaps Serbia will one day be the state in which campaigns, media teams will win the election. Serbia is not the country today. I recognise the Democratic Party that thanks to its headquarters it manages to defeat the Democratic Party of Serbia in the elections, but it will take a lot more effort and that the people love you much, much more and much more and forget you so that you can ever get close to the Serbian Radical Party. For you, the Democratic Party of Serbia became an acceptable partner at the time it proved how corrupt it was. They weren't acceptable until then. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party can be deceived by the different types you launch on your televisions and your media, which are presented as professional and independent, and all are "yellow". There is no political party in Serbia that manipulates so many so-called so-called political parties. Independent experts as the Democratic Party. A whole set, Cesid, they have come to watch elections equally with participants in the elections, have come to the conclusion that they are eligible guests on the night of the vote count, an analysis of the results, have come to campaign at a time when the electoral silence is in favour of the Democratic Party or its candidate. Today you also nakedly include them in the National Assembly. In the symbol of national rule, you include organizations that form and finance the West. The way the Democratic Party wants to lead Serbia is clear. But this time it's going to be very short, that road will end very soon. This where you're headed, in front of these challenges waiting for Serbia, can't last long. I don't see you looking too much like you've formed a government, I don't see that you're too clear when you say where Serbia is going and how tomorrow, the day after that. I see you're trying to detach us completely. I listen to the statements of the highest statesmen who say -- that, at the same time, the fight for Kosovo within Serbia, while at the same time fighting for European integration, both NATO membership and co-operation with those patrolmen from Ohio. Identify yourselves, people: one or the other. It is impossible in Serbia to imagine the policy you are trying to present. Of course, he went wild, B92, and no one dares tell them that. No one is allowed against them to wage war and no one is allowed to issue a statement against B92 to write, against unnatural television. No one dares offer anyone to form patriotic television. Has it ever occurred to you that we should oppose one Serbian television television TV TV B92, so that citizens can choose? Has it ever occurred to you that the national frequency is a Serbian national treasure, not an American? You don't think about it, you're glad to be invited to TV B92. To warn these prosecutors and judges, who think lightly about prisons and lightly sentence prisons for acts that are the pride of the Democratic Party, to think carefully about what they are doing, as well as this professor, a professor at the Belgrade Law Faculty. That the crime of resistance was punishable was to say when you were arlaucals on the streets of Belgrade, but you couldn't mention the word, you shouldn't have appeared in public. He's closed the book he's read by then, now he's reopening it. You're not gonna arrest us. He's wrong, Wolfie. You will not arrest us, no member of the Serbian Radical Party, we will all defend him. No more – arrests, and we will fight here in the Assembly. No, from now on it will be—you arrest, and we will fight whoever arrests. The children you arrested are not children of the functioner of the Serbian Radical Party. They're completely unknown to us children. None of you come out here for a pay phone to say: "Stop, people, I belong to a party who arrests for posters; and what if we burned the flags in which there was a five-pointer, and made circles and threw out that five-pointer, so I still wouldn't get out of jail. Try to look at yourself with the same dioptria both when you're in power and when you're in opposition, because nothing is more. You are in power thanks to the Democratic Party of Serbia. Don't you dare say that - we are one look at Serbia. In this regard, there is no room for others, there may be another party. No, you're in the campaign one look at Serbia, and the other are radicals. When elections pass – let us gather other views of Serbia just to be in power. Let's get into a normal democratic struggle. Here, we have another view of Serbia. Have we ever asked anyone to help us form a government? We didn't. Come on, you yellows, let's go one-on-one, Radicals and the Democratic Party. Whoever wins, let's rule. Whoever wins should lead Serbia for four years, and then if it is not good, it will certainly be replaced, because it is the only condition for democracy. Don't make up those that help you each time to bridge another election and another election. It's the governments of the dung, the governments who just want to get as much as they can. These governments are subject to the influence of the tycoons, and you see it very well. You know that very well. And you're led by tycoons, always in the Serbian Parliament by people you have nothing to say to. What should I blame you MPs for knowing that none of you are involved in any crime? Those criminals picked themselves up that day, took an oath and left the Assembly, leaving you to be attacked by Serbian Radical Party MPs. (President: Mr. Nikolic, I really apologize, we cannot speak of elected ministers in such a way. I remember when I praised Mr. Albianić for being in a thieving company, and he wasn't a thief himself. I'm saying it now, Mr. Albianic, and you're glad I'm telling you. You're gonna warn me one more time, but you're glad to hear there's someone in G17 plus who's not a thief. But this main thief of yours fought for his ministry, and he left you here, Mr. Albianic, to replace if the president of the Assembly had any need to do, to be there for Albianic, because in no one else, it seems to me, there is no trust. God forbid Miloljub Albianic was sick, a session of the National Assembly would not be held, since there is no man of trust. Let me finish, but don't warn me. It's an unacceptable solution, worldly unacceptable, that someone from an NGO takes office. To call him the founder of an NGO. People will have the right to ask you tomorrow – do you lie to us all the time? You do not apply the model of NGOs to Serbia. These are not NGOs, these are people under your patronage. Most importantly, the tycoons made a lot of money in a few days as far as I was president of the Assembly. They've found a model, my dear gentlemen, they've brought down your stock exchange again. I'd like to ask Mr. Chank, I think he made the alarm the other night, I don't know who hired him that night to speak first. They've done themselves a good job; scared little stockholders, ruined their property, let them sell as soon as possible, at any price, and after three days calm the stock market and your actions rise to the sky. Now they liked it because there's no big stock market traffic, so they re-introduced it. Or Serbia is in a serious crisis because a new government has been elected. I also ask that gentleman, the great analyst, who appeared behind the pay phone to object to the analysis carried out by Mrs Tabakovic, to now say what is happening, what is this political moment when the "yellows" are enthroned, and the value of stock on the stock market falls, and the dinar goes downhill from the euro. We'll keep going. Without us, there is no better Serbia, and you know it very well. Without us, you will bring Serbia back to the state of emergency and arrest. But, you know, we'll be on the streets more and more, not the way you've done it, but the way democratic people do it, the way Serbian radicals do it, and you think hard; the first one you arrest will be the end of your reign, I guarantee it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1670	Mr. Markovic, we can be a little flexible, give an opportunity to a representative of the SPS parliamentary group to express their party's position. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Can you wait, Mr. Beard, I apologize? So, Mr. Nenad Canak, the replica to the presentation of Tomislav Nikolic, mentioning the name.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1671	I thank the chairman. Mr. Nikolic, since you mentioned me about actions whose value fell when you were elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to remind you that I am a graduate economist in education and that I specialize in global marketing, that it is my job to deal with the economy. Unfortunately, because of what the regime of Slobodan Milosevic has done, it has been impossible for me, but I am still an economist, who must take care of the economy as the country's primary patriotic interest. On the other hand, in your presentation, I noticed things that are important to notice, which is that you said – if one member of the Serbian Radical Party is arrested, that you will all defend him. From what I understand, this isn't about arresting people because they're members of this party or that party, but if they're committing a crime. Are you telling me you're going to defend members of your own party regardless of the type of work that's been done? I remind you that such a way of functioning is inadmissible in any civilized society. You want to fight, you want to yell? Don't make me do that. When you mention the burning of the Assembly and all that, I must remind you that this was the first consequence of the non-recognition of the election results since September (September 24th, to be precise), not the way that came to power. It's completely separate stuff. Manipulating all of this and trying to change this post-festum is just talking about trying to change the historical facts of your Serbian Radical Party, which, if it had been willful in this country, was supposed to be banned on 6 October 2000, which, of course, I stood up for, and you know it well... I advocated it then, I advocate it now, because while the Serbian Radical Party can thus usurp the possibility of normalising relations in Serbia, so far Serbia will be her hostage. That is why it is inadmissible to threaten the citizens of this country, the constitutional order and the institutions of this country, the way you do it. As far as the stock market is concerned, since I know you don't know what it is, I'll tell you: it's a question, first of all, trust in this country's legal system; it depends most on action. Since you, of course, don't know, need to be removed from political life urgently, because if you're going to tell me that the way the SRS works is democratic, I'm going to remind you of all those unpunished crimes that are under the auspices of that party committed in the 1990s. Your way of functioning up in your hair is overwritten from the 25-point program... Mr. Chanak, your time is up. ) In the next follow-up I will assure you of the programme from 25 points, as of 20 January 1920, the National Socialist German Workers' Party. You gentlemen are radicals, Nazis.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1672	Mr. Canak, we can't make that kind of assessment. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1673	Of course I didn't mention Mr. Chank that he would have some big promotion for this speaker, because each of his statements is calculated to be verbally attacked by one of the radicals to justify his politics in Vojvodina. I just wanted to hear from Mr. Chank, as economists, what he thinks about the downfall of stock exchanges. If I should logically judge, he told me that the people had no confidence in the current political climate, that they had no confidence in the country's leadership and that the action had fallen again, but it was meant to, as a prominent economist, say here as soon as you felt, because that night you dramatically warned Serbia about the decline in stock market values, so you should have done so now, because the economist is an economist. That's where you can see the knowledge. It's impossible that you've lost that knowledge and now you haven't been able to go out for a pay phone and tell what's going on with the action; you might be able to save some small shareholders, maybe they'll totally fail. Of course, you're misreading, I'm talking about political arrests that are hinting these days. Even a municipal public prosecutor pleaded that Alexander Vukic and I had performed such a cunning action that we could not be arrested. That's all I could think of, Mr. Canak, you know that very well. But as I recall, you warned that the Democratic Party, led by Zoran Djindjic, committed major robberies in 2001 and 2002, at the time of the privatisation of many buildings, and then with them you joined the coalition. If we're talking about defending criminals, I'd rather ask you if you're ready to defend every criminal, or not, and I'm saying now, at least 80 radicals you know right now, at any cost, because I know neither one of them will ever be blamed or charged or suspected of any crime that would not be compatible with any policy. None of them will ever steal, none of them will ever commit a violent act, but they want to stand up to this government. That's why I'm going to defend them. You didn't insult me when you said we were Nazis because it's not news (I repeat the words of a man who said it here in the assembly) when a dog bites a man, but when a man bites a dog it's big news. So if you felt bit when I spoke before you, I really apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1674	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1675	I'm referring to Article 104. Rules of Procedure, not because of this gentleman who said some words here, but because of you, Mr. Albianic. If the word had been used by an MP from the Serbian Radical Party, you would have left the National Assembly as a parliamentary group, ran into the hallway, where B 92 is waiting, it would have started screaming at the system of some party that goes like that Mile transition. You didn't apply the Rules of Procedure. Let's just say that if one of the former presidents had been here, she would have made a dramatic warning of 90 days if that gentleman hadn't entered this room. That's how she applies the Rules of Procedure. But she wouldn't say it, for the simple reason that there were some words here from that man who wanted to hang out on the terraces. There is no public invitation to the lynch of something that happened, whether in 1999 or 2000, in downtown Belgrade. Of course, if it is political opinion, there is no need to object, it should be accepted as an attitude. I have this attitude that someone abuses a pay phone, so it comes out as Mile in transition to scream here, it's circulating, but it's his style, and I can't discuss tastes, and I don't want to discuss the morale of someone else's debate, but I have to notice for some time that some congregation pay phone is being seen as a DJ-Krmack, "the whole village is sniffing white." The whole of Serbia cannot be a front for a policy that says: sell cattle, buy coke. Someone can't threaten us with a stick and occasionally pull out a carrot. We try to talk, to express our views and political opinions. I fully agree with this terminology, but I warn you: inform the President of the National Assembly (who needs it, so you are changing it here) that this cultural behavior, which he is pleading with, should be introduced into a democratic bloc. It's not the radicals, it's the democratic bloc. If it puts order into a democratic bloc, then we will bring that terminology into line by the same weapons system, because we as the MPs are equal and equal. If someone comes out and tells a party what one of my predecessors said, then it's perfectly normal for another term to be found in that political terminology to paint that political group. Apparently, the term "quisling" no longer drinks water and has its synonym in dosmania; it is this Dosmanlia nomenclature that takes on a cartoon form in Serbia, because they are publicly portrayed as Alexa Zunjic, a happy spy. It's our reality. So, Mr Albianic, you have found yourself here, and if you have found yourself, apply the Rules of Procedure in an objective manner and according to all MPs, regardless of which group they come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1676	That is exactly what I am doing, please, I am chairing in accordance with the powers of the President of the Assembly, which has its usual day-to-day obligations, meetings, receptions, etc. and lead the congregation beyond its obligations. I therefore warn all those who speak words that are not adequate or appropriate to this congregation building. The word has Mr. Canak, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1677	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I didn't want to offend anyone, I just put out the definition of the character of the SRS, so the national socialist party, which has the same type of program as its predecessors and historical role models, means the National Socialist Workers' Party. A 25-point program that was the basis of that party has been largely applied here. In one of the next shows, I'll read it to you, just to remind you of your sources. As far as the action goes, I couldn't agree more, Mr. Nikolic, that's right. I was talking about things I didn't understand, privatisations during DOS. I was talking about people from the Democratic Party, individuals who were in charge of it, doing things I didn't understand, let's just say, in privatizing the Beician cement factory. I've been talking about all this. I was also talking about anyone who puts drugs on the market having to be arrested and put up with it. That's exactly why they're all, whether I know them or not, who've committed crimes at the moment in prison, by the authorities at the time who were touchy, by the police that DOS then controlled. Criminals aren't in prison today, and that government is controlled by someone else. This government, today's government, has no citizens' trust, for the simple reason it's not one but two governments, two parallel and vertically divided governments. That part of the government, I agree with you there, and I hope, since you used that word, that is not an insult – the corrupters, who are sitting in that government, are just shooting down on citizens' trust in the institutions of this country, and they are putting us all in a position to conduct a lot of wild debates, instead of dealing with the serious problems that stand before this country, which are largely caused by your existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1678	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1679	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the proposal for a secretary, or deputy secretary in this united debate on these agenda points. The SPS parliamentary group will not vote in favour of the proposal of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dulic, as secretary and deputy secretaries. We know it's the right of the National Assembly president to propose his advisors, but we cannot support this proposal because we haven't voted for it either, so we don't think that we should support this proposal as a secretary either. Otherwise, it's a political proposal. We don't really have any negative information about the secretary's candidate, and we don't want to talk about it, but the whole assembly knows this isn't about the profession, it's about political membership. We respect that, but we can't agree with that. Because if it were a profession, then perhaps the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would have been elected the most competent man for the job today in the National Assembly, Mr. Perisa Jovanovic, but since the profession is not dominant in politics, we have this proposal for the secretary and the deputy secretary. One more thing, when it comes to vice-secretary candidates. One of them... That should be commented, I just mentioned it to a young colleague from the Democratic Party, why we mention "Resistance" here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If candidates believe that part of their biography is membership and activity in "Resist" and student demonstrations or the fight against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, then we feel even more strongly that it is necessary to highlight it in order to see who acted in 1990 and what is part of his biography, what recommends him for such a significant place. One of the candidates for the deputy secretary mentioned that he was in Cesid, and it is obvious that it is something he recommends in relation to the profession he should possess, since it is a significant job being done in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not saying this by chance, I need to remember the role Cesid played in the late 1990s and after 2000. At the end of the 1990s, his role as an NGO was to attack the entire electoral process fiercely, to point to the so-called. Irregularity and that it creates a public opinion against the then government made by the Socialists and radicals; in one word, it creates an atmosphere that the electoral process is not resolved in a good way and that there are numerous irregularities that lead to the suspicion of the entire course of the electoral actions and, of course, the results of the elections. Just remember that after the polls closed, they were given the right of the championship in all the media to say, allegedly, to Serbia what is happening and, of course, to show it in a way that corresponded to the opposition at the time. The role changed after 2000, after October 5th. Suddenly, out of the great and aggressive advocates and interpreters of election processes and results, Cesid members have turned into people who absolutely supported all the electoral actions that took place since 2000. In the content of these electoral actions, of course, there were numerous irregularities, but there were no words about it by Cesid. They tried to make those irregularities that existed in the electoral process and all the bad parties that were happening across Serbia minimize it, to show it to the non-essentials, and to in one word make the impression that there is, but my God, it is part of the electoral process, and it does not need to be taken care of so much, let alone talk about it. Their roles should be remembered when elections were held for the president of the Republic of Serbia. Then they appeared in the role of a media instigator, urging citizens to go to the polls. Remember, then the point was to get as many citizens out as possible, because it was expected that a number of other candidates, Mr Nikolic, could, I say, be challenged. They were, essentially, on behalf of those who paid and paid for Cesid's activities, and on behalf of certain political parties, media presence and urged people to go to elections to, like, be democratic. Like, those who come out don't know it, but, well, Cesid should play that part. Remember the role of Cesid when a referendum on Montenegro's independence took place last year. As the fellow MP put it, the role was shameful. Remember, at nine o'clock and a few minutes they immediately gave a projection of the election results and said they couldn't do it, since they were terribly professional and they were perfectionists and that the error couldn't be greater than 0.2 or 0.3%, and the error proved to be greater. Immediately after the polling stations were closed, it was intended to create the impression that the number of votes needed for Montenegro's independence was reached and thus discourage all those people, unfortunately, who still believed that the common state could and should exist. Of course, later, when the real results came, they did not consider it necessary to apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or to all others who were incorrectly informed. It is also mentioned as part of the biography and participation in the student protest. Unlike other colleagues who think this bio-related thing isn't so good, I don't think it's bad, and now I'm going to explain why. If those cartoons weren't part of their life and work of biography and recommendations for congregation work, we wouldn't even know that this relationship, which we highlighted in the 1990s, was so strong and persistent between the representatives of NGOs and DS candidates. It turns out they weren't independent at the time, and the practice showed that unfortunately they weren't even professional enough. It shows that there is a deep, deep connection between them as so-called. Independent candidates and DS membership, possibly DS membership, but in any case belonging to that political option. Because if it weren't for that, they wouldn't even be candidates for other places. It's already been seen that many leaders are so-called leaders. The student protest of the 1990s, many members of the Resistance's leadership found their love for the Democratic Party and that they are now either MPs or other prominent state posts, which says they have done a job for the Democratic Party in the 1990s, which is clearly recommended by them. This is a reward for their work. It's their right, but we can't agree. For these reasons, the SPS will not vote as a candidate for the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor as deputy secretaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1680	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, and let Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1681	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, last night on a television show the President of the Assembly mentioned an event from this National Assembly. Of course, I recognized myself because I said that word from one of the MPs from this assembly speaker. In doing so, I remind the president of the National Assembly that the word "idiot" in ancient Greece was still meant by someone who does not understand politics and does not deal with politics, and if he does, then it is a pity by policy. If the President of the Assembly hadn't been away, he would have heard from this assembly booth 15 minutes before this charge that, regardless of the person close to the party, Mr. President would have to impose a drastic punishment. A whole party and more than a million-and-a-half sympathisers and voters of that party were called by one of the MPs - the Nazis. Unfortunately, he was replaced by a man who may be a good mathematician, and perhaps it would be best for him to stay in primary school to do math, so he failed to assess the weight of the words spoken from the pay phone. Just one more thing, said the president on the show last night – I turned off his microphone, and next time I'll take away his word, so probably still sanctions that are in line with the current rules of procedure. Mr. President, let me inform you: neither me nor the other 80 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party do not frighten the Rules of Procedure. You're working on the Rules of Procedure, and we're going to do what the citizens of Serbia sent us here to do. Today we have a secretary's selection on the agenda. Only a while ago did we choose the secretary of the National Assembly. It seems to me that the choice was, not to say, a consensus; that greenboard was on which results were on when Mr. Danilovic was a candidate for the secretary. Mr. Danilovic turns out to be a collateral damage to Kostunica's mutilation, and now he has to move from that place. In that section of prey... Because you didn't take the government as a service to the people, because if it were, you wouldn't be sharing the ministries as a spa, so the minister -- spahija, and the cleaning lady in that ministry must be from that political party. You wouldn't go into kidnapping and robbery the moment they first took their oath here, so the first ones ran to the ministries to ambush, so some were kicked out of the ministries and the flag, and the coat of arms and all the markings of the Serbian state, even though they were the ministers of that state of Serbia. Of course, the moment that NGOs appeared – wrongly called NGOs, because they were governmental, although not these governments were, and in this case they would be an organisation of this government, but they were foreign governments – at first they might not have been noticed that they were installed by political organisations, political parties from here, assisted, of course, and money and doctrines on the side. Today, when the dust clears a little bit, there is yellow in front of every NGO. NGOs have become a reserve or reserve militia. The civil sector, as you called it, and as it is included in the "yellow company". The only cure, which will be after the next parliamentary elections, I hope already in the fall, is the Putin's system of control of NGOs. But let's take it in a row. So, for the secretary of the National Assembly, the Serbian Radical Party voted and there is no reason to vote again after six or ten days. I'm sure we won't vote. It is interesting, however, that for the lady they propose for the secretary they have agreed on a biography. People, it's all wrong here; it's going - born, finished school, employed here and here, so it's advanced in the service, etc., and you're going - from 2004 to today, it's acting as the city's chief of staff, and then 2001-2004, what it was doing, so from 2000 to 2001, you get to 1991, when she was a lawyer. How you wrote your biography here will guide you, if you choose it, and I assume you have a voting machine and you will. Let's take a look, of course, I'm not going to talk about Mr. Mark Danilovic, because he was more or less a successful secretary, but I'm going to talk about this one you suggested from Cesid, meaning "yellow company", and also "yellow company" exposure. He says he was the initiator of a student protest at the Faculty of Law and a member of the initial board; further, he says: founder of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy. Since that Cesid showed up at the polling stations, he's literally done nothing except spy for the Democratic Party, first for the DOS, and lately only for the DS. He's the author of the Book of Election Manipulation. Well, that's what you made up, gentlemen. The Socialists were little children back then compared to how you steal today. Of course, the SRS has trained members of the election boards, so you're not going through with it, but the attempts are so drastic that it's amazing. To remind you only of the last elections, when this Cesid, around 18 hours or so, hit, Blagojevic, seems to me to be called, knocked out from all the voices – people, there will not be enough voters; it was a signal to the dossal, or democratic phalanges to drive everyone to the polls, so that it will not be fixed at all. And by the way, there was a parolee, and I think the one you're proposing as deputy secretary suggested "one plus one is two." Now, please, Mr. President, if you'll interrupt my time, because I intend to ask three parliamentary questions, and that cannot be counted at a time that belongs to the Serbian Radical Party. (The President: Here, it will be included, no problem. ) Since we are going to have a budget debate these days, because these days we are going to have a chance to have a vice-president, and probably someone from this encrypted company, please let me get out of this pay phone publicly, not just to me, but to the citizens of Serbia, explain whether the Serbian State lottery is a state lottery or whether it's a private company of the encrypted company G17 plus. I asked this question six months ago and no one answered me or the citizens of Serbia. To remind you that Serbia's state lottery destroyed certain Bojan Kristo, one of the G17 Plus officials, and now under the state lottery company for private gambling. Of course, they promise a great... I expect you've hitchhiked my time. (President: It's okay, time is going, but you will be rejected. ) Refuse it from the parliamentary group, what goes on now. I spoke for seven minutes. (President: I apologize, you spoke for eight minutes and 16 seconds and that time will be added to the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go. Let's round it up for eight and 20 seconds. Did Bojan Kristo rob Serbia's state lottery by bringing it to the beggar stick? Did anyone get that famous week, because, you know, every time the standard of citizens falls, they turn to games of chance. The lower the standard, the more gambling they profit, because people expect to solve some of their existential issues in this way. Did anyone get a week? Where do all these lotto assets come from, and how many countries profit from it? Let me remind you, this isn't the first time, it was the National Savings Bank, and then it turns out it's a private bank. The second question, is it true that NIS director Srdjan Bosnjakovic spent a billion national money dinars only last year, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia on the commercial? The third question, was a certain Balać (he was the commercial director of the New Sad Refinery, and now he is being prepared for Director Petrol) during the Trizon affair was at least invited? To remind citizens of Serbia, the state of Serbia is only in the Trizon affair damaged by 16m euros. Next question, will the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic explain to us where he gets 11m euros in a year and a half? Not only to the SRS, let the Serbian citizens explain the model, there may be someone else who will become rich in the science, in the expert procedure he has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1683	Thank you. I ask the service to forward the parliamentary questions to the Ministers of Resistance. We're moving on. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, and let the MP Jadranko Vukovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since 5 October, since you came to power, some of the parties from the then DOS have always somehow wanted to show themselves to citizens and voters of Serbia that they are something different from the rest of the DOS. The first was launched by the Democratic Party of Serbia, reportedly dissatisfied with the results of the government of Zoran Djindjic. They went out with this dissatisfaction at the elections, deceived Serbian citizens. After the 2003 elections, they formed a new government, some new DOS, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, whom we can freely say has taken over, a minority, the role of Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, the Democratic Party appeared unsatisfactory with the government's work results, in order to trick Serbian citizens in some way, won the largest number of votes of dissatisfied citizens. However, you were distracted by the Serbian Radical Party, which won the last elections. But here, from a few days ago, all the masks of old and new DOS finally fell. The new DOS is gathered and there's no difference between DSS and DS, absolutely no difference. That essence they're meeting for now comes to light. The previous speaker, my fellow MP, Mr. Momir Markovic, is wrong in one part when it comes to Cesid, that Cesid was paying foreign governments, not this one. I can't agree with that, because I don't see the difference between foreign governments and any government since October 5th. What government of the Republic of Serbia was doing in the interests of Serbian citizens more than any foreign government? No government, Zoran Djindjic, or Zoran Zivkovic, or Vojislav Kostunica, the first, or Vojislav Kostunica, the second. Even some foreign governments have helped Serbia to preserve Kosovo and Metohija more than our ministers and Democratic Party President Boris Tadic have tried. Now slowly – as if it had come to your head, or you are so sure of your authority that you will always be able to deceive the people, or you just know that the end is coming to you, you have nothing left to cheat on the citizens of Serbia – you also reveal all those accomplices who helped you in this business. When you look at who one of the deputy secretaries of the National Assembly sees one such result - to whom you owe those mandates, to whom you owe this government. The time has come for you to issue your accounts. When you start with how to fool the citizens, you always make up some sound names, you always have some wings. That's how the Cesid was founded or, as they say, the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, which dealt with everything, just not with free elections and democracy. Cesid never, ever since he existed, ran an analysis of the electoral body, the popularity of the parties, he made them. He made them for the Democratic Party's account and other parties of the then and current DOS, with the goal of having as much popularity as possible in their analyses as possible, while reducing the popularity of the Serbian Radical Party. How many experts and experts are seen by their forecasts and analyses for the 2003 presidential elections, when the then DOS candidate Dragoljub Micunovic had over 50%, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the Serbian Radical Party candidate, was slightly below 20%. As I recall, Mr Tomislav Nikolic won over 50% in those elections and ran over Cesid and DOS candidate Dragoljub Micunovic. These are DOS and Cesid's results, as has been done so far. Now, be careful what this Mr. Milos Todorovic is and what his greatest scientific achievements are. He's the author of the Book of Election Manipulation. I can tell you that, if someone was teaching someone how to steal in the election, it's either your experiences that you've passed on to him, or it's the experiences that someone's been teaching him, so he's giving them to you, because all the election thefts are coming from you. Furthermore, he dealt with the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament. You know, political parties are the ones who need to reach a consensus on what electoral law we should have, that the possibility of abuse in the voting day and in general in pre-election actions is reduced to the least possible. You, as I recall, have been holding elections since 2001, so I remember that we from the Serbian Radical Party couldn't even get forms to collect signatures on the same. In all of this, when it is now looked, this gentleman was also involved because he was then also an adviser to the Democratic Party, the model of the Law on the financing of political parties, now be careful what else the gentleman was doing. Which he did not write a model of the Law on the financing of NGOs, first to measure how much he would and where he would draw from. And, to know who he was taking from, who his sponsors were and who he was sponsoring from Cesida of these tycoons, who blew up Serbian citizens in co-operation with the governor of the National Bank, to know who financed all of Cesid. So, we've all wrapped up in a form of democracy, a Europe, some stories, that we'll get people's eyes dirty and come to power. It's just, it seems to me, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, either it came to your head to fail or you're sure that you can never form again, so give what you can and what's left to steal, then we'll do what we can and can do. Be assured that for DOS criminals and abuses the ruling structures of the Serbian Radical Party will have no mercy after the new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1685	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. I would like to inform the Serbian Radical Party, the MP's club, that they have 13 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will present for this speaker a few facts that Mr Milos Todorovic, of course, did not accidentally avoid pointing out in his biography. The first is that Cesid, and two other NGOs dealing with the issue of elections, came from the International Foundation for the Election System, whose founder, as you know, is Big Brother. At our premises, the NGO, Cesid and two others, appeared in 1997, are funded by the same ones who finance TV B92. That year, in 1997, three NGOs dealing with the issue of elections had a $10m fund. Mr. Milos Todorovic did not accidentally avoid presenting this information as his NGO, or theirs, was created, whose founder he was, but pointed out that he was prominent in the 1996 and 1997 student protests. So, ladies and gentlemen, I responsibly claim that Milos Todorovic of Cesid, candidate of the Democratic Party for Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly, is a school example of how the West imposes its personnel on us in this and all other state institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1687	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Fired Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1688	We have a classic conflict of interest here. The gentleman from Cesid, Milos Todorovic, was proposed as deputy secretary of this esteemed assembly. As we know, Cesid has been imposed for many years, with the very good help of the promoter, as an informal but very important institution through which elections are being checked. It went slowly, there were many other organizations, but, well, now we have Cesid as one very important, important rapper whether the elections were democratic or not. Indeed, it's an ingenious organization, this Cesid, I guess that means the center for freedom and democracy, sort of, which, as its idea, highlighted that simplest equation 1+1 equals 2. It pointed out, but it showed us how very easy and simple 1+1 can become equal zero. This just happened in Montenegro, when Milo Djukanovic, with the plenty of assistance of Cesid, was brought to power and when one big zero remained from the Serbia-Montenegro community. Now, one such man, who is in the very root of Cesida's organization, as its founder, who is delegated to RIK, is being brought into the very center, into the very core, to bring him to this assembly, which exists thanks to the elections. We all came here as a result of the democratically expressed will of the citizens. Now this same Cesid, via Mr. Todorovic, is to manage the events in this assembly. Little by little, in the time ahead of us, ahead of some elections, they will try in every way possible to really make these pre-election speculations about possible election results match the facts, with the right results of the election. That way, they will be able to predict what will happen when the votes of our citizens are counted. So, the promoter is pushing an illegal act under our noses, trying to drag us into this anti-candidal store where we, as MPs, should vote, either for or against, and so we legalize something completely illegal. It's a classic conflict of interest. I would really like the motionary to make a statement about what I said, whether it's a conflict of interest or not. As far as this man's character is concerned, I can only say one positive thing about him, which is contained in the last sentence, which is that he is the father of the daughter of Anja and the son of Dimitri. He speaks English. What does that mean, who needs it? Allow me, for us Serbian radicals is much more important Russian than English. It is our democratic right to declare ourselves to the community of independent states, of course, with Russia at the helm. It is your same democratic right to learn English and try to enter Western Europe. But, of course, you're not gonna make it. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Say you speak excellent English.) It doesn't matter, at all, what language I speak and how much. It's not the only language I speak. So that's all you can say about this candidate. I'll take this opportunity to speak to Mr. Dulic. Mr. Dulic, in his, uh, no-provoked exposé, you listed a few things. Among other things, you said that you would cooperate more with NGOs. How? That's exactly what we're seeing today. You said you'd raise the whole thing to some larger cultural level. So, you were either seriously preparing or at least thinking about the function you recently took over. If you already have good intentions, you should be careful where and what you say. You are in every place and in any case the president of this assembly, just like we, first of all, are MPs. It does not matter which parties, but it is very important which congregations. Mr. Dulic, you were on television last night, whose name I don't want to mention, you said that in your opinion General Ratko Mladic is a war criminal. By bearing such an opinion, you have offended hundreds of thousands of citizens of this country, primarily the families of the dead fighters whose commander was General Ratko Mladic. You insulted the disabled who fought under his direct command. You know what his direct command means? His direct command stood in two words – after me. It's a man who's been wounded three times on the first lines of Serbian defense. I'm proud to say I'm his fighter. You have offended me, as an MP, and as a warrior, Ratko Mladic. So it's a much stronger thing than the one that you're so casually talking about, not knowing what you're talking about, you're saying. You measure every word you say. If you are not sure about the answer, act like a psychic Wanga – that it can be understood either way. You do not always have to give precise answers, for it is better than to sin over this congregation and the people represented in this congregation. I just want to look back on one more thing. One of the participants in the ugly show, in which the bright spot was somewhat Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, said Serbia is a country of absurdity and wonders, as it sits on the indictee's bench, and Mr. Cvetanovic goes to Europe. Of course, there, Mr. President of the Assembly, you did not find it appropriate to protect the institution of MPs. When we received the motions from the delegations, it was nice to write in them that it was done on the basis of an agreement with the club presidents and that it was about reciprocity. So, according to how many of us here have the right to get members of the delegations. It is a general practice, which has been common in this congregation since it exists. So, Mr. President, be careful what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1689	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. The remaining time for the Serbian Radical Party is four minutes. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will make sure that for as much time as there is left, I say a few words to Mr. Milos Todorovic, because I certainly believe that his choice here is absolutely the most controversial. We're missing a few data on his biography. You're saying he graduated from law school and passed a judicial exam. You don't say when it was and with what average rating, and I think that would be very important to know. Furthermore, he is said to have been an observer of Cesid at RIK from 2000 to 2004. This is not true and cannot be true, because there is no permanent observer at RIK. Someone can be assigned to be an election monitor only, so only for that month or month and a half, how long campaigns last, but no one can be a permanent observer for four years. Next, he says he's the author of the book "The Election Manipulation". I was, of course, interested in what kind of capital work Mr. Todorovic wrote, so I found it. It's not a book, it can be called a brochure before. There's a total of 47 pages. It's from the first to the last page, but the book, that capital work of this "intellectual gromada", starts only on the seventh side, and ends on the forty-one. Most of the book is, as you can see, just charts and tables, and the text probably doesn't have more than 15 pages. It is very interesting that he has arrived to say that the latest example of manipulation of the electoral system is the election for President of the United States in 2000. He says they have shown that the Democratic Party candidate won a total of more votes than Republican candidates, but since George Bush won more electorate as a Republican party candidate, he was elected president. So that's a sharp criticism of democracy in the United States. Of course, there's been some more information chewed up, I'd say, for centuries. He was trying to say something about jerimandering, which was theoretically and practically already processed nearly 200 years ago. What it does not say in the biography of Mr. Todorovic (I was a member of the RIK on behalf of the SRS in the 2004 presidential elections) is that it has disabled the election process in every way possible. I won't talk about how they didn't advocate democratic principles enough, but what is characterized by Mr. Todorovic is false statements issued on the very day of the presidential runoff, when they accused me of being a member of the RIK – I was there officially in Raška County, so I visited the polling stations in Tutin and Novi Pazar – that in some polling stations I fought with members of the election boards, that it was major incidents, that I questioned the end of the election, etc. Given that I have spent the whole day visiting these polling stations with Mr. Adam Ramicevic, who is the president of the Municipal Election Commission in Tutin, I have made a statement, or several statements, which made it clear that all of Cesid's statements are false, that there has been no incident and that Cesid as an organisation has no observers in any of the polling stations in Tutin... (President: Time, Mr. Sarovic. Here I go. It is clear that we absolutely cannot allow Milos Todorovic to be elected deputy secretary, because he will then have direct access to RIK materials, and we have seen that he is already prone to manipulation, and then we can rightly expect him to do anything in the coming period. It is interesting that he, compared to being independent in RIK, represented the Cesid, was also an DS official hired as they say, a professional consultant in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. Finally, I must say that the choice of deputy secretary and secretary of the National Assembly is certainly also the final act of undermining another branch of government, this time legislative, under the absolute control of the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party already has the president of the Republic, has the president of the National Assembly; when they have the secretary and deputy, they will have full control over the legislative branch of government. They also have the largest number of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. You all know that Vojislav Kostunica is not asking for anything, nor will he ask. This is another big slap and the DSS MPs and all those who have been deceived to vote for them, because none of them voted for the DSS to be the head of the Assembly, headed by the Republic and to have, as until now, absolutely... Please, I'd like to finish, but I keep getting MPs from the Democratic Party. (President: Two minutes and 20 seconds you spoke more. Here you go. I know, but they keep getting me so I can't concentrate and finish. So, when this is added to the announcement by Dusan Petrovic that he will re-election all judges in Serbia, past the Constitution, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the continuity of the judicial function, then it is clear that Serbia, apart from the electoral will of the citizens, has found itself again in general in the grips of the Democratic Party. Of course, that is the biggest responsibility of Vojislav Kostunica and DSS, but as we can see today, there are no MPs in the benches, and today none of them have signed up to go out for a pay phone and to explain what these reasons are that lead them to vote for the secretary, although they have firmly promised that Marko Danilovic will also be the secretary of the Assembly in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1691	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Markovic answered, and have Mr Rajko Djuric prepare for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Friday, I warned the MPs from this assembly's pay phone, the authorities in this barely defiant government of Mr. Kostunica and the citizens of Serbia of the incredible, almost tragic situation 15km from here, in the village of Grmovac, where the people who strike hunger have already begun to faint, where the sanity went and provided first aid to those people, who continue to strike hunger. I expected, at the very least, that this barely scrupulous government would finally tell the Minister of Energy to do its job and order that some undersecretary in the City Assembly, whose parade is still standing, to release electricity through a power line, which the citizens, the parts of the unsaved Serbian people, those who have shrunk on that ice, built houses with their bloody money, through a high-voltage network that they also paid bloodyly. For 11 years now, 15km from Belgrade, a town with several thousand houses has been living citizens in total darkness, fellow citizens of Nikola Tesla, a man who donated electricity to the whole world. Instead of reacting to the government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of reacting to the resolute ministers, instead of reacting to this act that is grossly paid by means of its own resources and that part of the Serb people living in Grmovac, no one answered. Meanwhile, several more people have collapsed with a hunger strike, and today the hunger strike continues there, and day-to-day police have fenced hunger strikers so that by chance someone can't approach them except sanity. She announced her statement by the Republika Srpska government in refugee, the only headquarters around which these people could gather. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party also called. I'll read you a statement from the Republika Srpska government in refugee. What are you looking at me like that for, ma'am? You have 30 seconds, Mr. Markovic. ) A statement on not taking measures to connect electricity and water to the inhabitants of the village of Grmovac, 15km from Belgrade: "The relation of state authorities and institutions and city authorities to several hundred houses, according to several hundred inhabitants of the village of Grmovac, is more than inhuman. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution is appalled by the fact that citizens of the village of Grmovac, an exclusively refugee population, today, in the midst of modern civilization, live in the conditions of the prehistoric era. A delegation from Republika Srpska's government in persecution visited the citizens of the Grmovac settlement near Belgrade and expressed its astonishment with the negligence of the city's government, state authorities and organisations, whose promises remained only a dead letter on paper. We therefore demand that the competent authorities, the Ministry of Energy, react first of all, and that citizens be able to connect to the power grid, which they have otherwise financed by their own resources, be able to obtain anyway. It is more than absurd that fellow world scientists, Nikola Tesla, who otherwise gave the whole world divine light, live in total darkness today. Because of this fact today, all those who have contributed to the fact that something so unimaginable is happening to the citizens of the shrubs. We are sure that none of you here have experienced such torments and sufferings; hence it is more amazing that you have no sense of the sufferings of our people uninvited. We hope that this statement will bring to the attention of people, those who decide on other people's fates, and that this high house will finally have the understanding of the sufferings of these, as well as of others who are unhappy, exiled and evasive, whose fate none of you would wish, and that it will respond to that, at last, the townspeople of the Bolts will feel the joys of light. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been informed about this. The government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in refugee, Mr. Lichina, minister. " (President: Mr Markovic, four minutes and 37 seconds. I know, but I was quoting the letter, and you had to say no. (President): Okay, please finish. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, especially you MPs from the "yellow company", given that you are on the coat of arms, not to say in power, and in Belgrade, on behalf of the citizens of Grmovac, on behalf of all those who suffer the cake of the Belgrade summit, I demand that someone force that official into the city government to give these people electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1693	Thank you very much. Mr. Rajko Djuric, please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1694	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Roma Union of Serbia supports your proposal and will vote in favour of the proposals you have made. Let me tell the team next. I have long and very carefully listened to the representatives of this respected home. I remembered the poet Dusan Radovic who, I believe, would say, if he were here, as at one time at a conference of the Socialist Union of Belgrade – ladies and gentlemen, I am a poet and journalist, I am not a veterinarian. I will mention, in addition, a wise song of my people, which has a message similar to that of Shakespeare's drama (there is, unfortunately, Vladite Jankovic, with whom I once collaborated on the SANU Committee): Lava, Lion, Lavora, Landar Sana thavorha, thavorhendar is only, thaj omas umblade. The words, the words, the words, the words, the threads, the ropes, the ropes of the gallows. ) Mr. President, the rule here is often practiced in order to break all the rules of this house, and I appeal to you, Mr. President, and I ask you, first and foremost, to adhere to the Rules of Procedure and to the Constitution of this country. Otherwise, I'm afraid the consequences, first of all, for this home, can be very undesirable. The rules are followed by children in kindergarten, and children playing in the street! We've already had cases that really make sense come to pass, but despite that, it seems like we're not going to learn the right lessons. So I wonder how Parliament will be able to meet the expectations of citizens and the will of the people, what we are very often calling for, which is to be restored, to overcome future dangers, harmful intentions and dangerous acts. I would like to hear and know whether anyone in this parliament, no matter which political party belongs, is truly confident and convinced that Serbia and the Serbian state, often referred to here, can successfully protect and defend themselves by using political hypnosis, a psychiatrist, by calling on the forces of destructive power and violence or public spit and slapping on all state and social authorities, and at the time the sword hangs over Serbia's head. Who keeps cooking that sword? Who constantly draws hair from horsetail, bringing anxiety and unrest among Serbian citizens and members of national minorities, including my people? Dear ladies and gentlemen, aware of the facts and conditions in which our country and citizens of Serbia are located, whose fate are shared and many Roma members, I pray humbly to all the leaders of the parties and you, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, to abandon division and deobo, because Serbia is a unique country (here I fully agree with Mr Rajko Baralić), in which we all live together with our children, with our grandchildren, who need peace, who want security and who yearn for happiness. Serbia no longer needs monuments like the one in the pleasureous neighborhood raised by blood to brothers for political reasons, on which, according to their bereaved and unhappy mothers, the letter of grief and warnings was written – killed by the brother's hand. Whoever kills his brother, I'm afraid he'll kill God all the time. (President: Time, Mr. Guric) ... and so constantly create the need for Pilate, who, with contempt, asks what is true and is always ready to replace Barabbas for Jesus. Who is not aware of this, he willingly comes to the hands of those who eagerly expect to see Serbia on their way to Golgotha. As far as the second question is concerned, I'll be perfectly open and clear. I've talked about it many times here and at international meetings. Kosovo should defend by all political and diplomatic means. After all, my people, about 264,000 Roma, were killed in the worst and scariest way in Kosovo. However, one who would like to, calling on Kosovo to "cosovise" Serbia, would commit a crime against Serbia and Serbian citizens, the people of Serbia and all other peoples in it. Mr. Djuric, your time is up. Here, I'll finish now. Dear ladies and gentlemen, next to this house, I met an ordinary man, a City Cleanness worker, who said that if we did that, you wouldn't be able to make it out of the trash to the Parliament building. As I walked toward this building, I thought of this honorable man, for I wondered how much I and how much we all managed to add at least a gram of happiness to that man and his family. There are MPs here who have done the most damage to parliament and the Serbian state. Since Mrs. Radeta mentioned the Smile of Avramov, I will remind you of the International Public Law, whose author is Smilja Avramov. Mrs Radeta has, please, proposed Serbia's membership from the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know who did this? It was Hitler’s Germany, Mussolini’s Italy, and in 1965 that indicated Indonesia, when about a million people were killed!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1695	Mr. Djuric, you spoke over your time for three minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1696	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know how long we're going to usurp... (President: Please, you have to say which member. ) Article 104. How long are we going to usurp the National Assembly here and invent some kind of conflict between the Serbian and Roma people? First of all, Mr. Rajko Guric, you haven't been here in over a decade, we know where you've been. Why are you talking about the Serbian people like we're in some kind of collapsing and speaking Roma language? Someone needs to piss us off. Who's harassing us here in this country and who's hanging us here in this country? I said that last time and now I ask you: tell me where in your democratic Europe, which I respect, there are three Roma MPs? Is that gratitude to the Serbian people and any political parties? How did you get into this House? Is that how he returns to Serbia and the Serbian people? When all of Europe bombed this country and killed, you were in the Vatican, at Guenter Gras, at Havel's and you called for this country to be bombed. The Roma people today have so many problems, and you don't talk about the platform, nor present the platform to this country, what the state needs to help the Roma people, because they live the way they live. You don't have any programs to present here and ask of this assembly, but you keep talking about cooling and collapsing between the Serbian and Roma people, which is not true. What is your people, 10,000 people? I have 25,000 Roma on my street who vote for the party they vote for. Don't, please, like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1697	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1698	Article 101(3) and Article 103(1) That's not what Dusko Radovic said. That quote is not right. Dusko Radovic said something completely different, in a portable sense, that quote should be interpreted, Mr Đurić, that you address the MPs who are animals. Take care of what you say. You are not a veterinarian, nor was Duško Radovic. He was a great poet, and you'll never be. So please, it doesn't make sense. I don't have anything against you personally, I like you very much, but every time you talk about things that don't stand, you mention Pilate, you mention hard words, without any need. As for Mrs. Smilje Avramov, with great respect for saying that name, and for that you have several reasons. What you said doesn't fit the context. Ms. Smilja Avramov, commenting on certain actions by this government and above all Goran Svilanovic, said that you commented here, because Serbia, or the former SRJ, did not deserve to be a "banana state", so that as the founder of the UN, it was re-entered into the UN membership. It was a context, not what you were talking about today. One more thing, there's no reason that every time you answer the phone, last time I told you that, you're talking essays here. I have an understanding of your writing, you publish a book, I've read your book "Seobe Roma", and I'm happy to read the next one, but it doesn't exactly fit what's going on here. You educate us all the time. Let us take our chances in front of our target group. Why should we in any way act on what your understanding of political and parliamentary action is? It's an absolute risk for each of us and it carries a risk to those who vote for us. The unsuitable insights of the type of veterinarians and others are not similar to your age, to you, to your education, or to what you present yourselves here, and you want to make an impression on all of us and the citizens of Serbia that you are an intellectual. I hope we understand each other. As far as I'm concerned, I'm no longer going to lie down with you, write books, but don't call MPs, even if it's portable, to animals, because it's not right and it's not fair. That's exactly what you said - no more, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1699	Replica, Ms. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1700	Mr. Djuric spoke out of context for about seven or eight minutes instead of five minutes. I really don't mind every MP saying everything he thinks he has to say; otherwise, the position of the Serbian Radical Party, I said once before that when we bring our parliamentary majority to the Rules of Procedure, we won't limit the time, we won't be able to warn about the issues, everyone will be able to say everything on his soul. I had no intention of replicating Mr. Djuric, but when I heard Mr. Jovan Damjanovic about what he had on you, Mr. Djuric, was fully justified to say, then, well, just to remind the citizens of Serbia above all – it is true in one part what you said when you mentioned my name. Yes, I have stated and I am expressing the position of the Serbian Radical Party that we will advocate to end all relations with every country, every organisation that takes away Kosovo and Metohija from us. I'm really surprised that you have something against it, Mr. Guric. Our political party advocates Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia. We are the only ones in Serbia who are open and without a reservation, unlike those you supported when they were building the government, unlike Vojislav Kostunica, who told a story 15 days ago, and now has changed the board, and one of his ministers says the other day – yes, he supported what Mr Tomislav Nikolic said, that we will break relations with states that are self-recognizable and individually beginning to recognise Kosovo as part of Serbia's independence. This Minister of Kostunica says -- yes, yes, I said that then, I was under a special impression, because from various European countries, we have been showered with all sorts of allegations, and now, if that happens, we will agree in the government what we are going to do. So he admitted what we knew from the beginning, that Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic were absolutely the same and that neither of us cared about Kosovo and Metohija and the single state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1701	Replica, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1702	A wise and honorable man doesn't always need to talk. First, one principle thing, I don't agree, ladies and gentlemen, and I will never agree to be a gypsy MP, as someone keeps trying to frame me. I don't want the policies of the gypsies of the gypsies, because I, like all of you, am an MP of the National Assembly, according to all those obligations and rights that we all enjoy together here. Besides, Empirical, I will also announce these results to you, of the 18,600 voters our party received, there were 12,400 Roma votes and 6,000 Serb votes. So, me and that fact obliges me to speak as an MP for the National Assembly. Those who are trying to degrade minority-listed MPs, to tear down their rights, to lower them into a tort, in the best possible way, express, above all, their discriminatory, even racist attitude towards these national minorities. I don't want to argue with Mr. Damjanovic, because it really doesn't make sense. I know very well the history of my people, but also the political history of Serbia. You know, the radicals had Roma before the war, and it didn't change anything. I disagree with what has been said here, but I know very well the history of the radical party, starting on May 14th and 15th in 1887, when they fell as victims, 150 Serbs here at the Terrace and at Dorcolo, until the parliament in 1928. That shouldn't be the subject of this House. The other thing is about what Mrs. Radeta said. Mrs. Radeta, you misunderstood me. I'm not talking about states, I'm talking about the United Nations. And it is not true that Mr. Baralic said that Smilja Avramov spoke about Svilanovic. No, it's an International Public Law textbook, Mr. Baralic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... From whom Mrs. Radeta had to lay, where clearly stood the United Nations section, only two states from the League of Nations and...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1703	Mr. Guric, you're out of time for replication. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1704	It is possible, Mr. President, since you were away in the morning, that you were not informed that an insult was sent to the Serbian Radical Party when we were said to be Nazis, but this time you were in the O.R. Mr. Đuric, looking at us, even said that these are racist theories, corresponding to a replica of our exposure. Please, gentlemen of the People's MPs who represent other political options, avoid this truly pointless, insidious insult to the Serbian Radical Party. Please don't make me make you give evidence of your claims, because it would only be the end of Serbia. Peaceful souls, Mr. Djuric, come out for this pay phone, call us racists, and you say to yourself that you are not a Gypsies MP, as you said, trying to say something dirty here, and you yourself know that this is how you are elected to parliament, because for Roma, Hungarians, Romanians, Slovaks, Russian, all other, applied rule that does not exist for Serbs, the rule that with three thousand signatures your list is accepted, the rule that you have a natural threshold on which you enter the National Assembly. You are in this National Assembly only because you are Roma, not because you are a member of a political party, but a party of Roma. You qualified for special conditions of choice by saying you belonged to a party representing the interests of the Roma people. It wasn't my desire to make it possible for you, because it's ghettoization. I am for Roma to be in all parties, for the Serbs to be in all parties, for Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Hungary to be in all parties, not to stand out by the parties. I hear what an MP throws at me. One more thing I'm really interested in: how did you count the six thousand Serb votes your list received? If that's what this new deputy secretary was doing, I'd like to see a way. If the Serbian Radical Party could recalculate the vote by nationality to get from you, I would ask you, since we would step up the campaign where we have a little less votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1705	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint search on the proposal for candidates for appointment of the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the proposals for candidates for appointment of the Deputy Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After we have conducted a joint search, the National Assembly will decide on each proposal separately in the voting day. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OF CONSTITUTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS You have adopted a proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, with corrections submitted by the President of the National Assembly. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Proposer, Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic doesn't want a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the Assembly does not respect procedure and democracy, then a proposal like this, which should be discussed and decided, which is not at all in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On 25 May this year, we received a letter from the President of the Assembly proposing a decision on the establishment of delegations to represent the National Assembly in international parliamentary institutions, calling for Article 239(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will read to you Article 239 paragraph 2: "In the setting up of a parliamentary group of friendships, mutually expressed interests in achieving and developing co-operation between representative bodies." So, Mr. Dulic, this could have been the basis for your proposal to form some new parliamentary group of friendships. I used the basis when the SRS parliamentary group proposed establishing a group of friendships with the Cuban parliament. Let me inform you that, on this basis, today the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Cuba arrives at 15.00 hours in the National Assembly to meet with MPs who want to be members of the club of friendship. I urge all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to attend. What is the problem with your proposal and your decision? The fact that we do not have a Rules of Procedure is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia determines members of any delegation, because it was calculated that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a Assembly of one member of the Federation, provided co-operation with the Assembly of another member of the Federation, to ensure co-operation with the Federal Assembly, or the SRJ Assembly, and to guide ad hoc individual delegations that would co-operate with representative bodies of other countries, receive visits and visit. But to inform you, the decision on this and the initiative to do so is all in the hands of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So anything we would decide today or in the voting day would be opposed to the Rules of Procedure. One more thing, to warn you, has been a consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, but what you did in your proposals is not a fruit of consultation. So, not only did you propose delegations, you also proposed the heads of delegation. We have never agreed on this, and because we have not negotiated any representatives of the opposition in your proposal, it is not intended to be the head of any delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That means you need MPs from the opposition to be icaban, to travel with you. Or perhaps you from the ruling structures would travel separately, where you run politics, to meet with the heads of other delegations, with the presidents of these parliaments, or where it would be going, and to provide opposition MPs with the treatment that we, for example, had in the Council of Europe, so when the debate on Kosovo and Metohija is on the agenda and I report the discussion, then place me in 30th place on the list of speakers, and you know that 12th or 13th can arrive to speak, and for all other instructions written discussion. Mr. Shami, don't frown, and you've arranged it yourself in your own time. When you don't like my discussion or when it happens that we vote differently in the Council of Europe, you speak, and I don't talk, because I'm going to say something that's an opposition attitude from Serbia, and you don't like it at that time. So this isn't well imagined. This is meant as a delegation of ruling parties, to which society will be built by opposition MPs. This has no foothold in the Rules of Procedure. If you want to make any decision on this basis, we will approach the urgent amendments of the Rules of Procedure that will enable this. The National Assembly, according to this Rules of Procedure which is now in force, does not form any delegations that would represent us in bodies, and the very basis on which you have called on this proposal is so pointless and ridiculous that you should say again from the pay phone - I did not sign this.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1707	Thank you very much. I will read to you Article 239 of the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure: The National Assembly shall decide on the establishment of permanent delegations for participation in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation and other multilateral parliamentary institutions. The proposal for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations referred to in Article 1 shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. We don't have a consolidated Rules of Procedure. The job has to be done by the Legislative Committee. It is only today that we will have a Legislative Committee, which will have its president, since we have agreed today on the presidents and vice-presidents of all committees, so that, as soon as possible, you will receive the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure. It's not my fault, nor is it your fault, Mr. Nikolic, who you were president before me. We'll see to it as soon as possible. I believe you agree that this was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1708	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the LDP will not vote in favour of the motion for a decision sent to us by the President of Parliament, following consultations carried out during the previous week, because we disagree with the way this proposal was defined and we think that by voting and protesting against this way of forming our delegations, which will represent parliament in international institutions, we will practically open up the possibility that in some other situation, the Rules of Procedure and the Parliament of Serbia will allow representatives in international institutions to have enough power and capacity to protect and affirm the interests of the state, represent citizens and citizens, and not exclusively take care of the needs of the authorities. We are not satisfied with the parliamentary majority's approach to forming these delegations. It is true that Article 239 established proportionality as the basis. But if the parliamentary majority decided to interpret this proportionality in the way it interpreted it, then we must say that we disagree, that this is a bad approach, and that this approach will make our parliament a lot of problems in the first session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Don't be surprised by the Council of Europe's reaction to the composition of a delegation that will represent Serbia in the organisation. Do not be surprised, first of all, that you have decided that minority parties cannot have their representative in the delegation, that you have decided that a very clear opposition parliamentary group, with a specific policy, cannot have its own representative in that delegation in a decent manner, which is LDP, and that you have decided to interpret proportionality in such a way that at any time the ruling majority in the delegation wants to have a majority. You are not then representatives of parliament, you are representatives of the parliamentary majority. The essence of the delegation, especially the bodies of the Council of Europe, is to promote a policy that is wider than that of the policy that you define in the way you have done it. There are people here who have been hired and who have worked in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There it comes through three main lines: through socialist clubs, through folk clubs and through liberal clubs. Who will represent Serbia in a parliamentary group of liberals? How do you expect to understand the parliamentary group of liberals if there is no willingness to open up a space for participation in the work of the body in a reasonable way? It's not giving any charity. You have referred to the Rules of Procedure that you wish to change, the Rules of Procedure that are incomplete, in which there has never been any account of the problem we are now trying to solve, because this body has never dealt with. If we want Serbia's parliament, which is now making such an important decision for the first time, to make a decision that will immediately be challenged, then the parliamentary majority should make it, and you will. We don't agree with that, and we'll fight it. In the consultations we spoke very clearly, I asked the other presidents of the parliamentary clubs – do you expect us to represent in the delegations represented by parliament the policy of the parliamentary majority or my policy, regardless of whether it is about Kosovo, about environmentalism, about any other problem covered by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, since we are primarily interested in the Parliament's relationship with that delegation. I said in advance that we do not agree to the position in which we are obliged to represent parliamentary majority positions from the Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but that we can agree. This may be part of this Rules of Procedure, that it stands very clearly in that Article 239 – there is room only for those who think of Kosovo what Kostunica thinks, who think of The Hague what Kostunica, Tadic or Dinkic thinks, and that is very clear then. This Rules of Procedure did not open the possibility of forming a delegation in the manner in which it must be formed in order to be respected. Those who insist on such a solution, excuse me, Mr. President, and you, do damage both to Parliament and the interests of Serbian citizens. I well-intentionedly warn you of the damages and consequences that will follow the delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not the delegations of parliament. If this delegation is formed the way you formed it, through the domination of the government over the opposition, then it is very clear what this is about. We will vote against this proposal. The other thing we don't like, it's a very bad relationship with other delegations. We agree that there are priorities, but they cannot be compromising by the very representatives of our country in other countries. The OSCE is important, the Council of Europe is important, the European Union is important, but I'm sorry, if we have to delegate representatives to the Black Sea initiative, if we have to delegate representatives to the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy, then it must be done in a competent manner. Are candidates who are competent enough for this job? I don't think they're competent enough for a job from the perspective that you're experiencing -- a diplomatic passport, some diary and a reward for a political contribution to a particular party or politics, but a job that they have to do. That's what we're interested in. We'll have our representatives in all these bodies. We are not satisfied with the way delegations and profiles of the people who represent us in these delegations have been formed. If someone wants to travel, let them say they want to travel, and we'll see, we'll raise some funds and we'll make it possible for them, but if they need to travel at the expense of this Parliament, and against the interest of this Parliament because they can't have that interest as it is, then we disagree. As for calling on that Rules of Procedure, that doesn't mean anything, because the Rules of Procedure was made at the time when no one even thought about the jobs that we are now trying to settle by referring to a member of that Rules of Procedure. Secondly, what we particularly do not like, and such a delegation as it is made is compromised through the unacceptable position of Parliament's president. Excuse me, Mr. Dulic, you must be the president of the Serbian Parliament delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is known how I feel about the Democratic Party of Serbia and their candidate for Parliament's president, but, excuse me, here is Mr. Shami, and he was the president of the state union parliament. You know who runs that delegation. Before him was Ambassador Micunovic. He ran that delegation. Such degradation of a very important institution is unacceptable, which is certainly a delegation that will represent Serbia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This is why we also vote against your decision, and by working on the Rules of Procedure and through everything that will follow, we will try to help you to understand as parliamentary majority what makes it important to accept the principles that we are talking about. In advance, we suggest that the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will be very bad and that this proposal has already caused damage to the interests of both parliament and the citizens that parliament should represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-28-0.u1709	Thank you. Since two opposition parties disagreed with such composition, pursuant to Article 143. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia withdraw this decision from the agenda. I want us to agree very quickly and at least make this decision by consensus, because I think it is necessary. We'll discuss this at the meeting of the chiefs of Parliament's clubs. I'm pulling out of the process of this agenda point and we're moving on. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code (specificity) Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which it also discussed the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, pursuant to Article 140(3). Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move on to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Procedure Act (specificity) Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principle search, under which it also discussed the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda on the basis of Article 85(3), honourable Members of the People's Parliament have held a debate on all points of the agenda. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at 10.00 p.m. on 29 May 2007 as the day for voting on all items of the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nenad Bogdanović, Andrea Galgo-Ferenci, Borka Vukic and Rajko Đurić. Given that the National Assembly held a debate on all items of the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007, we move to a decision. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Vice President, Mr Delic. Here you go.
