ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the Government considers that it does not comply with the Budgetary System Act, I would ask only a question - on what law, valid or the one that is in our procedure? The amendment is in accordance with the Budget System Act. This amendment is one new projection of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as the budget should look from the SRS's point of view, rather than that in the draft budget itself, as the ruling majority says, amounts, revenues and expenditures are covered by various professional terms and positions where these expenditures, i.e. revenues, can hardly be determined for what purposes. The first thing that distinguishes the SRS budget from the ruling majority's budget is that, according to the Serbian Radical Party, public spending should be reduced and should be stopped with the country's further borrowing, hence the citizens, and is in line with the policy this amendment is written. First, it is not true that, according to a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, the budget is 639 billion and 600 million. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is far, far greater, even under the government's proposal. The budget runs around 713 billion dinars, and that difference between 639 billion and 713 billion dinars is hidden through Table 2, Mr. Minister, and these are loans and sales of financial assets. One expression, one sentence that means little to someone, and in translation, it's a credit receipt and a receipt from a record broadcast. I already called the minister once to come out for this pay phone and says what Governor Jelasic does, what the National Bank of Serbia does, is nothing more than printing money. Whether money is printed as a single coin and so placed on the market or through securities of value there is absolutely no difference. For the matter to be even worse, through the broadcasting of securities of value, and the objective of broadcasting of securities of value is to cover the possible indifference of the budget daily, there is a possibility that through speculation on the stock market and oscillations that the dinar or euro has in the last year, someone is gaining enormous wealth at the expense of Serbian citizens and to the damage of Serbian businesses. I just want to say that in 2006, the National Bank of Serbia lost 30 billion dinars in these stock exchanges and financial transactions, which was covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, what is this loss I will show you on only one case, which is that, according to this budget proposal, you planned to spend 34 billion dinars throughout 2008 through the National Investment Plan. So, the National Bank of Serbia, by mixing the market, is making a loss almost equal to the annual amount foreseen for the National Investment Plan. You re-appointed such a man only a few months ago as governor of the National Bank of Serbia. The second item in Table 2 - the payment of the principal and the purchase of financial assets, these are payments of the old chief of loans and expenses for the purchase of securities of value, where the state will again in a certain way be indebted to the burden of the citizens of Serbia and to the burden of this budget, and from that you plan to cover the alleged deficit of 14 billion 828 million. In Article 1, which shows the revenues and expenditures of the budget, I am nowhere, Mr. Minister, unable to see what the revenues of the Republic of Serbia are from privatisation. I would like to know where it will end up with half a billion euros received by the Republic of Serbia through privatisation of the Robing Houses and RTB Bor. You have to agree that half a billion euros for Serbia, like this, since you came to power, miserable and robbed, is quite a lot of money. Why aren't those items in the Republic of Serbia's budget? The Serbian Radical Party, in whose name I have submitted this amendment, has made a different budget projection, where it will no longer be allowed for the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia to create speculation from which Serbian citizens will only have damage, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia in which, unfortunately, we have had to accept all these debts you have made to Serbian citizens since you came to power to this day. These debts, which are not small, are probably an excuse why you did not get those promised $6.5 - 7 billion only when you replaced Milosevic. To pay off these debts in 2008, Serbian citizens are due to pay 74 billion dinars, or nearly 1 billion euros. The budget, according to the SRS, should only be financed from real revenue and privatisation expectations in 2008 should be of 48 billion dinars 357 million in order to achieve the balance of the budget, and the budget, given all these revenues and expenditures that you have shown, which we do not enter and which we consider to be financed from real and real budget revenue should be 687 billion 958 million. Someone will say that the budget proposed by the SRS by this amendment is bigger, however, because by receiving and borrowing from the sale of financial assets, you have made citizens of Serbia a debt of 89 billion dinars, and the sources of income we do not know how you will achieve, whether it will be new loans or just broadcasting securities of value through the National Bank, and it cannot be called anything other than printing money. As for the National Investment Plan, you can't paint schools, buildings, tax administrations, façades, etc. Call the National Investment Plan, Mr. Minister. It's even ongoing maintenance, hardly we can call it investment maintenance. We can't call the National Investment Plan a ski resort. We cannot call the National Investment Plan a variety of financial malversions of the Ministry of Equal Regional Development and the borrowing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to raise some loans that we will re-indebt citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You have singled out three billion dinars and recorded as the National Investment Plan - loans for business entities, i.e. to start small and medium-sized enterprises and companies to deal with exports. The investment plan is to work on infrastructure, improve the state of businesses. As for borrowing, as far as this government plans to assign Serbian citizens, I will say and prove only on one case. According to the Republic of Serbia's budget, only the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to spend nearly two billion dinars for the accompanying cost of borrowing. A billion and 950 million dinars. Then explain to the citizens of Serbia, explain to these strikers, educators, judicial strikers, and to those you constantly limit wages, why you think you spend two billion dinars and who will benefit most from it. The best of it will be people who are close to the government. Even when we give consent to various counter-guarantees and guarantees for the borrowing of public enterprises, we do not know under what conditions we owe the state, we do not know under which conditions loans are raised, we do not have detailed interest rates described, we do not have an analysis of the effects of this loan and we do not have an analysis of the justification of the borrowing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we are here covering behind a state audit institution for which we do not define enough resources to start their work, which we do not allow to work. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, except for one single final account for 2001, has no single final budget account until today. The first budget of that finance minister, God dericozes, the Duke of Meridian Bank, moved about 120 billion dinars. This new one is about five and perhaps six times bigger, telling you that the only goal of increasing the budget is to increase the number of employees in state administration bodies, open new agencies, financial malversions of the National Bank of Serbia, and that is the only thing Serbian citizens pay out of the budget. When you go a little further through the budget, you will see that the government of the Republic of Serbia limits the number of employees in local self-government bodies, restricts the amount of money for local self-government authorities that can be issued for salaries. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia is increasingly transferring more and more powers to local self-government authorities, but it does not increase the original revenues of local self-government authorities to carry out the work. By amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of local self-government, you are these taxes that you cannot charge, the tax on property, where the percentage of payments is the smallest and most unpopular tax, where the taxpayer directly pays money, and through goods and services pays someone else, transferred to the jurisdiction of local self-government and then you said – now you fine through these taxes finance local self-government, you will have more and more obligations, you will open municipal tax administrations, so that we can leave as much money as possible for ourselves, for the directors of public enterprises, for the directors of public institutions. It's been read here from this paytable of individual directors. It seems to me, the director of the Official Messenger, in which the laws of the Republic of Serbia are published and who only reads the one who has to pay 240,000 dinars. I'm interested in how you think you can use the development budget to call a budget that only finances public spending, in terms of pay and employee allowances, credit payments and principal payments. What do you mean you call that budget "developmental"? I think the budget that the Serbian Radical Party put through Article 1 is far more realistic than yours, far more fair. Besides, even when it comes to this budget, we'll see who has the means. If you continue to make yourself available, our budgets will become more and more full of money, our citizens are getting poorer, our economy is getting sadder, and the difference will be complemented by loans. If the Serbian Radical Party comes to power, it will be very soon, the budget will be realistic, aimed at developing the economy and reducing citizens' poverty. That's the difference between us and you, Mr. Minister, gentlemen Members of the People who support this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14238	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Government has not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(3) and (4). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Stankovic. The Government has not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The Government has not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 13a. Article 2 Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has been given by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14239	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted on behalf of the SRS an amendment to Article 2 which reads - to delete Article 2 which says the funds needed to finance the budget deficit and expenditure based on the payment of debt and the purchase of financial assets amounting to 89 billion dinar and will be provided from privatisation incomes, loans, donations and financial assets of the budget. I suggested that this member be deleted and explained in one sentence – it is necessary to start real budget financing. It's been a few days since the general budget debate. I said it was almost offensive to find loans in the Budget Law in one place as sources for financing budget spending, which are obligations of future generations, to find donations, which are allegedly unconditional gifts, and to find privatisation incomes as a source for covering budget costs, i.e. that the revenues from the sale of assets are spent on budget coverage. Why is that? That's what I'm going to start with, and that's what I'm going to conclude, so don't let anyone dare talk about this. In early 2005 you changed the methodology of budget accounting for which public debt payments do not fit the budget spending. So the methodology, technique, way of showing the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided that public debt payments do not fit the budget spending, which does not mean that it does not. It's the only thing that allows you to display such a small deficit. This allowed a 3.25m-euro surplus to be shown in 2005 and this enabled Mr Dinkic, as outgoing finance minister, to display a surplus in the budget. So it's not about the essence, it's about the technique that you've decided not to show what's obviously debt and consumption. We won't argue about that. I resent you because that's true. If the power of one MP, the power of his words for you as an argument is not enough, perhaps a quote from foreign investors will be enough, which you respect more when you make legal proposals, when you are doing the budget law. And the one completely unwarranted and no credit to the mentioned Mr. Harold Hirschoffer, who is only a paradigm of the IMF's influence and foreign institutions when making our laws and this budget... So this budget, like those before 2005, looks real because you've changed the cost-representation technique. But there's another reason why it should concern citizens more than a technique where you don't show what you're spending. The news that may have missed some, but to me and many Serbian citizens, it is that a new temporary measure of availability of property sold to the Republic of Belgrade has been made because the Privatisation Agency sold to others. Absurd is that the Privatisation Agency, as a government agency that is not in the budget as consumers, but which makes privatisation and charges for, in addition to all the costs, the compensation for success, sold the property of the Republic of Serbia. One government body sells government property as the property of a social enterprise. This is the Republic Assembly, and this is a serious debate. This is a budget law debate. This isn't "Political Party" and "For Ripley", "Believe it or not," and that's what it looks like. It sounds that way and talks about the inconclusiveness of this government that in the Property Directorate does not have a list of assets that the state of Serbia has, and you promise the world that you will leave to local self-government a part of the property that should be the basis for their work and income. So, if the government of the Republic of Serbia in Article 2 predicted some of the revenues from the privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, and right here the minister said that 100 million of the process would enter the budget, it is not a sale of the social enterprise, it is an illegal sale of its own property on which a temporary measure of the ban is imposed by the court's decision. And another thing that's very interesting about forming this budget is how you base his defense. Mr Cvetkovic, Mr Vlahovic and many here pointed out that the budget covers many acquired rights that cannot be abolished but must be financed. This means that there are budget users who are legally entitled to spend money from the budget. But don't let the citizens be fooled that it's some unusual, non-state expenditure that's being financed. So everything that's the classic functions of the state, the defense, the military, the police, the health care, the education, the judiciary, has always been in the budget and there are no new rights acquired. We have new acquired rights in what we have been attacking for years, which is a para-state apparatus in terms of agencies that have taken over the competences of the departments of tobacco, environmental protection, privatisation, infrastructure and countless agencies in each section of this budget. That has at least two negative sides. One of them is that when citizens vote for political parties, they vote for what their programme promises and vote for a government that will appoint its ministers and thus mark responsible people for carrying out pre-election promises and budgets. If you key decisions, including budget spending, shift to agencies that are not here in the budget or are not directly responsible because we can't ask them to resign because of the poor management of people's money, it's just one bad side of what's called clouding the responsibility of the government and ministers, and through a para-state apparatus. What's much harder in this budgetary sense is that each of these newly formed agencies, and countless of them from 2001 to today, should have its own space, and that space has a lease or property, has a heating, has a phone installation, has infrastructure equipment called computer equipment, new software. It may not be much by an individual agency, perhaps it's 20-30 of your friends, the well-deserved citizens, by your court, not by quality, and not by any chance by that "expert in front of politics," but when you have at least 60 such agencies, our people say "donar by dinar of cakes", and here "pull out brick by brick, the house crashes." This is how you tear down the budget financing system by telling the story – but these are acquired rights so we can't end them. No one here is questioning the basic state functions. Here we question the creation of parallel organs that are not responsible to anyone, and spend huge budgets. As two of the most pronounced examples, and in the principle debate on the budget, I mentioned exactly the Privatisation Agency and the Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and Insurance, which is now called the Deposit Insurance Agency. So, don't deceive the public that there are big salaries in the police, health care, science, the military, especially when they obviously know that. Don't let the state's apparatus grow. You, Mr. Minister, are an economist. There are a lot of educated people here. You know perfectly well that the state bureaucracy thrives on the principle of Perkinson's law of bells, and once you establish a commitment, it will easily be forgotten, but when you establish their right, it is difficult for them to give up. As the DOS authorities have just given up taxes on financial transactions that have been introduced, watch absurdity at the time of sanctions. So, you've made it possible for a state-run apparatus that loses its responsibility to the government and, on the other hand, brings the state into that kind of deficit financing that can't be called otherwise but to spend the future of our children through loans that you're taking very incriminatingly. There's no technique or methodology that can be an excuse for you. Speaking of this unrealistic budget financing, I must admit that, in the nature of my work, I closely monitor everything the minister has to say about the budget. On my point that we do not have public debt management and that it does not provide us with a report on how difficult the borrowings we face here, in the sense that we do not know the price, we do not know the conditions, he replied where we prefer to give arguments, on one of the advises of economists, in words – cannot the Ministry of Finance and the minister take responsibility for the loans that someone else has agreed on. I'm paraphrasing, but that's the essence of your statement. You're right, but how can the Assembly approve borrowing and assume responsibility by ratifying countless many agreements that those entrepreneurs in commissions, when they put us in charge, are pushing there to take as many credits as we can to finance other people's businesses. I have another note about this. So the borrowings, which you're easily persuaded to do, are deficit funding that technique can't iron out. It is also an opportunity to say that making this budget respects the requirements of foreign investors to the greatest extent possible and that you owe them to respect another huge one, which is to make an employment contract for each worker, and according to the Labour Act, which is more restrictive, so that they can fire without question and not account for what is called citizens' employment. And in the memo, you, Mr. Minister, who knows which time I warn, and it's never enough, you have a minus 2.1 employment rate. Someone here said that in front of those investors, we should cut through the red carpet. Dear colleagues, in front of foreign investors, this government does not extend the red carpet but thousands of euros, the regulations on which Mr Dinkic, then in the image of the finance minister and today in the image of the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, insisted, approves them today, as a bank: every investor, as soon as he intends to open a factory, then only fence the board or wire of the plaque given to him by a local self-government, gets from the Government of the Republic of Serbia from 2,000 to 10,000 euros for a job he will open - when, in what areas? Where are the employees under these regulations by which you finance new jobs from the budget to foreign investors? Is that the case of Jumka, where people at the new investor worked for over 18 hours, and eventually got fired, or is that the "Confections" case in Babusnica, where a foreign investor without any explanation, even though he had a market, simply shut down the company he bought and sent people to the labour market office. So they spread out in front of foreign investors pure euros that this people are suffering, not red carpets, but in return we don't get jobs, or better working conditions, or even information about why it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14240	The word has been made by MP Dejan Perjanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14241	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Your Honor, I apologize for reporting to the Rules of Procedure, but I will try not to take too much time. I still owe it to the citizens of the Triestenik municipality. I'm reporting to members 225 and 226. I ask the question of the Minister of Interior Mr Dragan Jocic – on what parameters and criteria have the decision been made for Tristenik municipality to lose its license plate? I'm deliberately calling on two members, since I'm trying to give you, the minister and all the viewers who are watching us right now. Given that in the days of the weekend I had over 100 calls from the citizens of Tristenik municipality, I want to give you an explanation, including Mr. Minister, that the municipality of Trstenik in that ancient Yugoslavia was the second municipality, behind Maribor, by the number of motor vehicles per capita. At this point, the municipality of Trstenik has over 23,000 registered motor vehicles, has over 55,000 inhabitants, and after Kruševec there are more inhabitants than any other municipality in Rasinski County. I would point out that the municipality of Trstenik is composed of two municipalities that have been added to it: in 1953 the Municipality of Steps and 1956 the Municipality of Velika Drenova.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14242	Thank you. Your question will be forwarded to the Minister of the Interior. Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. )The word has the People's MP Free Maras, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14243	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on this amendment submitted by my colleague Tabakovic. The amendment reads that Article 2 is deleted. I would not add anything to the fact that Mrs Tabakovic was talking about why this member should be deleted, i.e., I know that Mr Cvetkovic is familiar with all these things. I think it's important that we know things at this point. Is the governor of the National Bank sitting in government sessions with you, Mr. Minister? Have you ever talked to the governor of the National Bank about some of the topics we've been hearing about in the last few days in the media, as we have today had the opportunity to hear from Governor Jelasic on a radio show who has not expressed himself favorably about this budget? On the contrary, he said the budget was consumer, and everything the opposition has been saying here for days. The governor of the National Bank stressed that the 2008 budget is consumer. When he got the chance to define him he said like this, quote: "Paids rise, pensions grow, flower flowers, stream of roaches, but we will not pay the bills until next year." In his words, we have to wait until December to see how much inflation this year is. According to him, it's definitely going to be two digits. You've plotted an inflation of about 6% for next year, which is completely unrealistic if we start with double-digit inflation; it's already over 9%. Citizens should know the truth about this budget, that this budget is anti-reformal, anti-developmental and that, above all, it is consumer. I'm really most interested in having you answer my question if you ever speak to the governor. Did the governor draw your attention that this kind of budget, this kind of waste, this pre-election pay raise, will lead to us entering double-digit inflation in 2008 and that the citizens, as you were told earlier, will have to pay us and our children well. Of course, this budget isn't the only reason, but if we go... What's most important is, from the original memo, from July of this year, you're drastically detachable, and it's supposed to be really tightening the belt. Unfortunately, we came into a situation to waste more than in 2007. If this is the reason for the election, say - yes, the reason is the elections, so in 2009 we will tighten the belt, even in 2010 and 2011. I think this amendment is in order and should be accepted to delete this Article 2. The situation in which the country is concerned is that there are also Prime Ministers and ministers who could give us answers to some questions and see why there is such a disagreement between the governor of the National Bank who, of course, is not part of the Government, but is sitting every time in the government, he pointed out, and he himself told you about the situation that will happen to us – that this waste that you are doing because of the upcoming elections, the citizens will have to pay fatly. Perhaps in 2008, citizens will have the impression that they have a slightly higher salary and pensions, but soon after that it will return as a boomerang effect and citizens will have to pay hugely for all of your waste through this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14244	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 5 of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 4 of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 2(1) of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14245	Article 3 speaks, in fact, of the debts of the Republic of Serbia, as is one of the basic remarks on the budget of the SRS for days. So, borrowing by credit, we had a chance to see, because this year we've been making a budget for 2007, and it's only being delivered to you as the director who stopped by to sign the papers without reading, just one list of documents that he won't even look at, but come on, sign, where tomorrow you'll be, when the founding of the papers you signed, or when it comes to reviewing the foundation of the loan taken, so there won't be this assembly, there won't be a minister, who knows who's going to make the bills. Perhaps even an example of how Mr. Cvetkovic defended that the biggest commitment in this budget is, in fact, the old foreign exchange savings and that this budget is so massive, what they have already been flossules, is not developmental, and it is a bit social, and neither, in fact, the reason for this is a huge obligation from old foreign savings. I want to tell you responsibly here on behalf of my party that in the ranks of the SRS there is no big name of the businessman or the important criminal of the businessmen or tycoon who has abused the state funds, or in any other way, by misusing the old foreign currency savings, has come to property or anything like that. Mr. Minister, you have in your hands all the mechanisms, or you had as the DOS government, to see who abused the funds of old foreign exchange savings, where they are located, whether they were possibly exported somewhere, whether they formed some businesses, so today I don't know what they do or do. You didn't do it. It is evident that the DOS government based on what the old foreign currency savings has done is a project of almost perfect theft called the National Savings Bank. You're not saying that this big job got to work as an exclusive, luxuriant, most profitable, one of the para-state banks you called consciously to earn; you created such a National Savings Bank that the national bank was never, as a state bank, behind which the state should stand with its reputation. That is why you enabled individuals who were in contact with the government to earn huge money in service of the old foreign currency savings. So whenever you use an argument to defend this budget, you make sure that there are those in a cookie called the abuse of state couples who have never participated and will never participate and will never be able to silence you. So, not only do you have a problem with service of old obligations that you didn't have the strength, you didn't have the knowledge or you didn't want to end up nameing the guilty and addressing the damages that citizens know at least who's responsible for everything that happened, but you're going to take credit for which, in principle, you're putting under our noses for ratification and signing those contracts. I asked the amendment to stand by each such contract, with a risk projection, means whether to change the course, whether this country will have income from which it will be able to repay these loans on the assumption that they are profitable, to deliver us with each loan projection agreement of risk management involving or reducing the risk of changing course, interest rates and other risks. You gave me the right to make a public statement that you couldn't take responsibility for a loan that someone else had arranged. Now I'm going to tell you how bad you have access to it. On my remark that the Public Debt Administration is not yet formed, that it stands as just one cube in the systematization of the Ministry of Finance's jobs, the government is doing the following: shut up and pretend, if we don't talk about the issue, as if the question doesn't exist, if we don't talk about the problem, there's no problem. Therefore, another para-state agency and a administration called the Public Procurement Authority wants to join the finance ministry. This is a convenient opportunity to explain the government's principled approach. So, the Public Debt Administration, which is legally designed to monitor credit risk, that the state is not in debt under bad conditions, we do not form, but one Public Procurement Administration, before which everyone is equal (when I say "all" I mean all those to whom the Public Procurement Act applies, and also the Government itself, or certain ministries when they work procurement), needs to be sucked into the Ministry of Finance, not to ask someone outside, but to ask the Minister of Finance, or the Director of the Administration who will be part of the Ministry. If someone didn't get it wrong, I don't think at any time that the Public Procurement Administration is working perfectly – absolutely not. There's a lot of misunderstanding when it comes to direct contracts because of the urgency of the job. Because of the abuse of this Institute, the Public Procurement Administration often does not show sufficient flexibility, and this does not bother the Government and ministers if the work is the victim of some state capital-owned enterprises or in which the state has part of the management rights, so the Public Procurement Act restricts them. But when the state found itself at a closed door, to say in force -- let this go, the decision that is to be made in public will also be found as a legal proposal, to abolish the Public Procurement Board and the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers and to be an integral part of the Ministry of Finance. The state can't stand to work by the rules. This state, that is, this government, because the state and institutions make up people, cannot stand to comply with the legal rules. It amended the Budget Law in terms of methodology, so the repayment of credit is not considered to be spending. She's not answering to ask the Department of Public Procurement and delivers reports, so she's planning to shut it down. Since 2001, this country has provided us with a single final budget account for 2006, which we have not yet discussed and which we do not have an audit report. Dear citizens, when discussing the budget law, do not be convinced that we are discussing something other than the plan that the state thinks it collects revenue and spends that money. The real debate on the budget law is, in fact, the debate on the final account of last year's budget, because that's where we see until the end of what the budget reserve is spent, how much credit has really been withdrawn, and how much we have paid the penalties for the outstanding funds. Dear citizens, I don't know if that's what happens to you when you take credits, but this country's going to get permission to be in debt under conditions for which no one's billing, no finance minister, no Parliament, so he doesn't withdraw his credit, pay the fine for it. In that same report on the budget, on the final account of the budget, we see through such a document what has really been spent, and it happens to us that the final account law does not raise the question that more money has been given to fund political parties than the budget law predicted, although the Treasury for the Treasury is a small god who decides to pay the money. So political parties don't ask the government to pay them according to the financing law, they don't sign any demands, no need, no document, and for this government is not bound by the Budget Law, as an income and expenditure plan, nor the Party's Finance Act, although the Budget Law says that money is paid only on the basis of an accounting document for which there is a basis. Why is that? The government can't handle the rules, because it's also staring at what happened at the end of last month, when knowingly the National Bank, which has no right, professional, professional and moral, to make objections to this government, which I am also attacking, but the National Bank has no right to make objections, enabled a monetary coup at the end of last month, at a time when citizens were due to pay off loans indexed in euro. At the transaction, 20m euros were earned in the course of a business bank. I repeat, money is not a substance that can be ripped apart without being seen. If it's taken from someone, only someone else can make a living. So that's what banks have earned 20m euros in exchange for the exchange rate is taken from the pockets of those who pay off loans, all those who have indexed liabilities in foreign exchanges, but also from the budget of the Republic of Serbia that we all charge, and spend it selected. The chosen ones are elected by the Government, and the tax is paid by all, without any respect of even the economic power, which is the basic principles of the Constitution. The government and the National Bank do not have the right to defend themselves by credit risk in terms of unplanned conditions of course differences that led to the National Bank's loss of 370m euros in its final account last year. So, it's necessary with every borrowing agreement, with every loan agreement, because this is not a political story, Mr. Minister, you're a man of the profession, it's necessary, because of you, and because of the National Assembly and because of the seriousness of the state, to show that we don't want to discuss the loans that someone takes because they wanted to, but that these loans have an economic justification and that it's estimated whether the revenues that the state makes in the next period can serve the obligations arising from the loan. This amendment does not spoil any of the positions in the budget. He creates a commitment to the government, or to those who take loans to seriously consider loans. It is indeed possible to adopt it, and anyone who does not vote out of party obedience or any other reason actually votes for one wasteful state in which they will rightly think that he himself is personally benefiting at this time and is not prepared to see the long-term damage resulting from the failure to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14246	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14247	Dear ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the visual and auditory effects and the power of strong and too strong words, the figures are more stubborn. Yet the numbers are more stubborn and invincible. The numbers say, I apologize for repeating, and to remove this issue of public debt once on the agenda, because it doesn't deserve that, the figures say that the question no longer deserves to be dealt with. So public debt 30. Nine. In 2007, it was 9.35 billion euros. Public debt, what the state owes, consists of external debt, direct government debt of 5.52 billion euros and internal debt, and also what the state owes, of 3.94 billion. From that internal debt to the old foreign exchange savings and to the loan for Serbia's rebirth on 30. The 9th is 3.27 billion euros, and this is the largest debt, and about 600m euros is related to the indirect debt of the state, i.e. on the basis of guarantees issued to public enterprises. That's the point. The stubborn figures, if we suspect them, that's a terrible doubt, it would be a big, terrible doubt if we suspect that out of these 9.35 billion there are more debts. In the old foreign exchange savings -- 3.27 billion. She was 3.6, but she was created far before DOS, far before the tycoon. It was created before 1992, gentlemen. After that, there were many, many, ten years, governments, radicals, socialists, and others, who did not repay that debt. That debt waited for the state in 2000. The state could not accept it because people were taking risks, but the state had to accept it in order to give seriousness to this democratic effort to make citizens important to her. She accepted, and not only when it comes to state banks, but also when it comes to Jugocan and Dafiment Bank. The risk was made on purpose, consciously, by the then state. Yet people were compensated because they were not guilty, it was normal to expect some extraordinary, large incomes. People gambled, and yet they won, that is, they went into payment in 2016. Finally, the public debt in 2000 was 120 per cent compared to the gross social product, 20 per cent higher than the entire wealth of the state; in 2001 - 102 per cent; in 2006, it was 34.8 per cent; in 2007, it is 30.6 per cent, and the plan is that in 2010, it is 20.1 per cent. Under the Mastricht Agreement, the upper limit of government debt is 60 per cent compared to gross social product. If that ministry isn't telling the truth, then, people, so where are we, but those are the numbers. We are by that criterion far below, twice below that criterion that defined the Mastricht Agreement, 30.6 this year. And something else, far better, and it's a number, if someone isn't telling the truth, that one should have been answering long ago. The second criterion says - short-term commitments reached through foreign exchange reserves in Serbia are 10% and in Croatia 60%. So I repeat, short-term liabilities in the numerator, in the name of the foreign reserve equal to 10% of Serbia, Croatia 60 percent, and Bulgaria and Romania 70 percent. Therefore, to remove this enigma, Serbia's public debt is the brightest point of our macroeconomic policy. I do not question at all these facts about public spending, about the large number of organisational forms representing this public spending, but public debt is one favourable point of macroeconomic policy, i.e. the aggregate of Serbia's macroeconomic policy. Two, old-fashioned foreign savings and a rebirth loan, gentlemen, came from a long time ago, and the state took the obligation to pay it back. Three, I'd also like to be in the form of a replica, I'm still saying, I said, and colleague Tabakovic knows, red carpet for investors, both domestic and foreign. I'm staying on it, but I agree with her, there's no euro. As far as I know, it's not the euros that are planned, it's the tax exemption that we've been talking about. In corporate income tax, i.e. now legal persons, it is predicted that for every major investment, for example, if it invests 800 million and employs 100 workers, it will not pay a corporate tax for 10 years, and that is OK. Don't pay taxes on profits, let him carry abroad, do whatever he wants, but if he hires, if he brings in 10m euros and hires 100 workers. Here, I conclude, I think we really need to remove this question of public debt and these parameters that have been given numerically and clearly both as a Racio number and as a nominal absolute number. If that's not true, then someone really needs to reveal that secret; it would be the biggest secret of this country if this isn't true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14248	I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Vujadinovic. The Republic was requested by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, the applicant of this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14249	I don't mean to speak to you personally, but I now have a dilemma as to whether this is a lack of attention in listening or an attempt to reduce the importance of the arguments. All in all, things are like this. An amendment whose essence is that, with each credit, a report involving risk management projections and pooling data on course, interest rates and other risks is simply necessary. Whether and what is public debt, total debt, external debt, internal debt, this has been settled by the methodology, and in an unchanged relation to a methodology which may exclude the return of credit from spending in the budget. So the methodology for showing public debt is undeniable. I do not dispute, I have not questioned any number at any time or mentioned it, but the state is responsible for what is the internal debt. Her governor, who only thought about whether it was better to be in charge of Swiss francs, dinars or euros, the mandatory reserve policy stimulated the borrowing of citizens; he stimulated consumer credits, stimulated TV and advertising "you go in, go out and finish" and today the main advertising "lives beyond your means". This state has to be serious and understand - when these citizens who are in charge, even though it's an internal debt that the state doesn't guarantee, lose their jobs, which is projected by further privatisation, and when they don't have where to serve their loans, when they're selling their apartments... I don't want to mention the case of those who recently made incidents of decent black chronicles, those who take their own lives because they can't repay credit and who are going to enter the bank with bombs, but those who will gather and come before the government will rightly come, because the government is responsible for conducting monetary policy along with the National Bank, which calls only for its independence. So, when warning citizens about borrowing, you mean Croatia, as much as they are in charge, don't keep it quiet, but don't tell me that I'm slowing down the amount of old foreign savings; I'm slowing down the abuse of old foreign savings through the National Savings Bank and I resent the authorities for not determining who it is and where it's spent, who's been embezzling from that old foreign savings. I'm sorry, Mr. Vujadinović, way of taking over the government, coming to... It can't disappear, it's not water so it evaporates, the way the money can always be determined. What's most interesting (you've got enough years, like me, you've come to be a manager somewhere, you've been entering some authorities' organs), you've got nowhere to draw a line, so you say, positive zero, there's nothing but socialism, but when you have to drink a glass of honey and a glass of bile, so when you inherit the possibility of hiring friends, relatives, to take credit, to have a secretary, a car, to pave the way, to build, to boast, to get gifts, then you have to take over the burden that you inherit. Why do I doubt it? I doubt it because the government agency sold the department houses as social property, and the court imposed a temporary measure because the state property of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was sold in one part. How can I not doubt that? How can I not doubt if the Government has not submitted the final accounts since 2001, and the one who submitted turned out to be not true, or that it is not in line with the Party Financing Act, which served as a good basis for spitting parliamentaryism and parties in numerous daily papers, where the feltons went. I claim and repeat, whoever doesn't want to hear, doesn't matter, let the citizens hear, political parties don't need money. The Treasury has been obliged to check that there is as much money in the budget position as it is intended for that purpose. So none of my arguments can be questioned, because I'm not giving a political speech here. I am a politician, but in the name of belonging to a foreigner and an expert, I speak only arguments, in whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14250	I thank the People's MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. The word has a People's MP, Mrs. Borka Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14251	Dear Minister, I'd have to report about my colleague Dragan's exposure which really surprised me a little, because I'm the guilty banker who spent that foreign savings and the national loan. I'd like to tell you, I've been in the foreign exchange savings since the beginning, when it started out negatively and ended up with the Slovenia dispute that sued us for 790 million marks that we spent an old foreign exchange savings. Please, I'd like to tell the truth, because I'm a banker, because I owe it because in the balance sheets of the Belgrade Bank in the current agency and in all our current accounts there is where the old foreign currency savings went. Please, I'm surprised Dragan said it was a long time ago. I've been fighting this problem for 20 years. I think I have the moral right to support what Mrs. Jorgenka just said. The old foreign savings went where it had to go at that point, as it will now be many times. As far as I'm concerned... And every bank, at least of these six, as I remember it, because I participated in the first law, for the possibility, in the dynamics of paying off foreign savings, I actively participated in it... That law is almost the same today, it hasn't changed, and that's what it's all about, and we're gonna have to work to the last cent. As for the loan, I was the bank that wore it, and I was the one that collects money from abroad, from the diaspora. Everything diaspora on that basis has been returned. Debt savings, the loan was returned to the whole by the main, and on interest it was not, and resolved in various ways. So I would really like to tell you the truth, when you already have a banker in that guilt, which is now constantly mentioned, foreign exchange savings was active, let me tell you, it's been done day and night and, believe me, and during the sanctions, and even now, there were models that the foreign exchange savings came back through both the spa and the medicine, via the infirmary, across the road from abroad, and it was done, it wasn't given by hand and hat. I can say for the loan. The Belgrade Bank was, I joined in that last year, the bearer or leader of the loan. He went 90% into agriculture projects. I know every credit that's gone and I can tell you that it's back today and that those funds are in the Development Fund. It's not quite so messy. The conditions have been difficult, but please, I'm telling you, the loan has been returned as a whole -- the principal when it's seen globally, and when it's looked individually, of course there's a lot of it. I attended one meeting only when I returned to be president of the Belgrade Bank, where 500 savings arrived and began to attack the Belgrade Bank as a carrier. I asked for the savings books that were then established; only three of them had savings books, all the others, over 400, came with speculative goals. Well, I wanted to add so much to my friend Dragan and respected analyst, it's not like that. All I can tell you is that seven times I've been to an international trial to prove that 790 million foreign exchange savings in Slovenia have not been spent in the Belgrade Bank. No one defended me, believe me, not even the National Bank. In the end, we barely got a few National Bank advisors. Almost none of the journalists announced when the dispute was settled in our favour, i.e. in favour of the Belgrade Bank, and it was not proven that we spent our old foreign currency savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14252	I would like to thank the People's MP, Mrs. Borka Vukic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 6 of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 6 of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament member Nebojsa Stefanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 6 of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Article. Items 10 and 26 3. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14253	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, in principle, I spoke in principle about what we think about this Article 4 and how the legislator of this law tried to define the matter in his own way, that when it comes to something belonging to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina under the Constitution and to Article 184 of that Constitution, in particular Article 4, he tried to deceive the Duchy once more and to prevent what was due to them from obtaining the budget of the AP Vojvodina. The mentioned member and position of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to account for 7% of the funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and out of that, the AP Vojvodina is bound by at least three weeks of funding to invest in capital investments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. When looking at this article of the 4th proposed law, then simply the Dukes and anyone else cannot today, or possibly throughout 2008, determine what money it is, which is the money that will be transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the AP Vojvodina budget, or transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget. Why can't it be established? Because it is written in that proposed article to e.g. 18% of the salary tax, on earnings to be paid in 2008 in the territory of the AP Vojvodina belongs to the AP Vojvodina budget. Those 18% of the duchess are unable to control and determine whether or not to predict what money it is, or at the end of the year to know whether these money has been transferred, whether everything that should have been transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget has been respected. Then, 42.7% of the company's profits tax on the territory of the AP Vojvodina; of that profit-paying tax, so much belongs to the AP Vojvodina budget. I claim that these two items that are proposed in this member of the budget cannot be established. Not only me, but anyone can't say what funds it will be; neither the Dukes can, nor anyone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia can say -- that's all that money, that's all that belongs to Vojvodina. The dukes have reason to suspect that anyone who can determine and transfer all these funds, because the Statistical Office is a republican authority and the Vojvodina has no insight, nor does it have any record of what the profits are, what is the profits of the company or other. Article 4 The 2008 bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been proposed to transfer 22 billion and some million dinars from the Republic of Serbia's budget through the AP Vojvodina budget to the salary of teachers, teachers, teachers and others working in the education institutions of the AP Vojvodina. The commitment of the AP Vojvodina budget is that at least the next day following the receipt of these funds, it shall carry out the transfer of these funds to the current gyro accounts to those whose contributions are. The same is true of culture. The institutions of a culture of republican importance located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the name of the salary in 2008 should receive 809 million dinars per item in this article, and these coins should take as long as the next day to transfer to the jury accounts or current accounts to those to whom these money belongs. The proposal of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is to add as items in this article salaries for working officers and salaries in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, salaries for professional soldiers, officers, and also to pensioners living and receiving pensions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the item is also placed. I am convinced that, in that case, before they are added together, these coins would be far greater than these 45 billion, which are about 7% of this year's proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia, and then Vojvodina would again be in a position, i.e. the citizens of the AP Vojvodina to give the money back to this budget and the Republic of Serbia would be free from the obligation to transfer anything to the AP Vojvodina budget. So I suggested, and I think that one day it will have to be so long as this constitution is in force, that in any member, this time in Article 4, after the reference to which Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina's budget, the money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, states that this money for 2008 is so big. I wrote it this time and I suggest it be 46 billion dinars, because 46 billion is slightly more than 7%, and the Constitution says at least 7%. What I am particularly concerned about is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to this amendment of mine. In her explanation why she could not accept this amendment she wrote literally, if accepted, that would be more than 7%. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government, the Constitution doesn't say that Vojvodina only belongs to 7%. The duchess belongs to at least 7%. For me and, believe me, for a large number of Vojvodina, it is devastating to know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is struggling by chance that the citizens of the AP Vojvodina do not get which dinar comes from a minimum of 7%. I would like to tell you that one of the first disputes to be launched before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia will certainly be an analysis of the application of Article 184, in particular Article 4 in this year's draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think we all need to get ready together to find the strength and resources to get someone to calculate where they hid at least 7% of how much they belong to the AP Vojvodina budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14254	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Minister, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I have just received information from Kosovo and Metohija where additional confusion is being introduced and where personnel from Kosovo and Metohija are being pushed into conflict. What's this about? During last week, we discussed changes in Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen from the ruling coalition, i.e. two governments, representatives of the DSS and New Serbia, say a correction has been made, i.e. the solutions made on the resolution of the district and co-ordinators have been put out of force, and DS and G17 say there is no such decision. So it's either two governments or this is the end of the government. I would like to remind the public that the delegation that was accepted by the Prime Minister and Minister for Kosovo and Metohija presented this problem and that the Prime Minister and Minister for Kosovo and Metohija decidedly said that they were not familiar with such a change, that this was done beyond their knowledge and that at the next cabinet session it would be reconsidered and put out of force. Now on the field, the DSS and New Serbia are telling co-ordinators and district chiefs not to hand over, and the DS is pushing its people to commit handovers. Also, I want the public and the people to know that it is the co-ordinators who are the presidents of the municipalities, that the only criterion for determining the structure and number of co-ordinators of parliamentary parties in the republican parliament. I want to remind the public that in Kosovo and Metohija, 32.73%, SRS 28.72%, DS 11.27%, SPS 9.54% and G17 3.6% were won in the last DS and New Serbia elections. G17, an expert party, with 3.6% took one district chief and three co-ordinators, and DS with 11.27% took 10 co-ordinators and, I think, two district chiefs. I also want to remind the public that in the previous meeting when the Democratic Party did not participate in the government, it has maintained its coordinators since 2000. It seems that this is the only problem, that the Democratic Party is in a hurry to make human change. So I ask the question to the Government, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Secretary-General of the Government – has she made a decision to put aside the power of the decision on the resolution of the district and co-ordinators?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14256	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maraš. The government has not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14257	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this Article 4. The draft law in the last budget was Article 3. And last year, that is, when we discussed this year's budget, it was controversial, I suppose, for most of the MPs and for most of the citizens who come from Vojvodina or living in Vojvodina. We are witnessing that even now the campaign is one of the parties in the government with the same slogan as for last year's parliamentary elections, i.e. – because Vojvodina cannot wait. Unfortunately, the government's proposal for this law has shown that Vojvodina has much to wait for when it comes to the government of Vojislav Kostunica. In an attempt to cloud the eyes of the people of Vojvodina, the majority of the parliament, above all on the initiative of the then prime minister, brought the Constitution, which stated in article 184 that out of the total budget for the Republic of Serbia 7% is allocated to the AP Vojvodina budget, which is three weeks for capital expenditures. However, those who run the Executive Council in Vojvodina will certainly not say it publicly, but we all have this information that the funds that were to be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget by the Republic of Serbia did not reach 7% of the budget as provided for in Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We, Mr Cvetkovic, as the Finance Committee, have already asked you once a question to open your eyes to us and to understand what the budget is, or what the budget definition is, or what the funds are in fact in the 2007 budget, and this was about the problem of funding political parties. You said then that the definition of the budget does not exist and that it is very difficult and decided to say what the budget of the Republic of Serbia is. Starting from that, I'm here as part of the 1st general section of the Serbian budget, where the budget figure is these 639 billion, added these 89 billion, so we came to 730 billion. Taking out of that 7%, we've reached about 50 billion; counting three weeks of those 50 billion, again there's about 20 billion to go for capital expenditures in the AP Vojvodina. As a budget promoter here, you have tried to explain to us that all the funds provided for Vojvodina will reach the Vojvodina budget. However, this Article 4 tells us that only the decidently foreseen funds will charge the AP Vojvodina budget, i.e. that 42% of the profit tax that is made on AP territory will go to, 18% of the earnings tax on AP territory. We spoke on the board, and you said that last year it was about six billion and that next year it would be seven billion, while you told us here that in 2008, there would be nine billion funds that would be collected from these taxes and transferred to Vojvodina. When we take those nine billion you put on the NIP, that's about 16 billion, I figure what you said on the board is about the exact exact number, although I don't think that's exactly the exact number, then we get to 16 billion, but there's going to be another five, seven, or ten billion, and that money should add up to that 7% that's supposed to go to Vojvodina. However, in the 2008 draft budget, I believe that MPs have carefully read and seen, there are some differences compared to the previous year's budget. So, in the 2007 budget, we had a decided reference, according to certain ministries, item 551, where it stood for the NIP - funds for the AP Vojvodina, or for the territory of the AP Vojvodina of two, four or six billion, etc. Unfortunately, this year in the budget it is skillfully avoided, so it will all depend on the goodwill of a minister whose resources are, for example, the Minister of Infrastructure, who has six billion under the NIP. Whether he will define something for Vojvodina or not, and knowing what relations he has with the current peak of the province's administration, I mean the president of the assembly, the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council and the violent conflicts he has had with them, which in public, which in TV shows, we can hardly expect the Minister of Infrastructure to take care of the transfer of funds to the AP Vojvodina budget. Also, you will see later, I asked for Article 4 to be shortened, and to add Article 4a for the simple reason that you stated in this Article 4 that certain funds that go for salaries, to the employees of education, and to the costs of culture are about 19 or 20 billion, or 23 billion. I believe that the full inaccuracy of Article 4. This Article 4 really opens up a lot of room for manipulations by, above all, resolution ministers and, of course, the government in general. So, they have an obligation to transfer certain funds to Vojvodina, but I'm afraid a large part of the funds left to them will never be transferred, as until today, funds relating to the 2007 budget have not been transferred. When this Constitution was adopted, one of the basic reasons why the people of Vojvodina did not go out more than 50%, i.e. to support the adoption of this Constitution was, above all, this definition of Article 184 and, we can say freely, the humiliation of both the Autonomous provinces themselves and the citizens living in it. Unfortunately, the constitution, which was brought in as it was brought in, overnight and within three days of co-negotiating agreements, is not respected by those who brought it, and above all, I mean the government of Vojislav Kostunica. So, as prime minister, he would have to respect all the items in the Constitution, all the items, in the extreme line, the Budget Law, but there are also citizens who testify that the current prime minister has nothing to do with this budget. I'm deeply convinced that he didn't even look at this, he doesn't do this stuff. They sent the finance minister, who is most familiar with the budget itself and is most professional to discuss certain items, but there are things to talk about with Mr Kostunica as well. Once again, I must stress, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the citizens, does not respect the constitution that it has adopted, meaning, not a member of 184, where it is decidedly said that 7% of the Republika Srpska budget must be allocated to the AP Vojvodina budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14258	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Vlado Sekulić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Nemanja Sarovic has tabled an amendment to be deleted in article 4. I'd read that article so everyone would know what this is about. Article 4(6) reads: "The remaining amount of funds up to at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget will be transferred to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina through Section 5 - Government, Chapter 3. 12 - Office for the National Investment Plan and through other projects of the National Investment Plan". Through what we've seen again, we've come to an absurd situation that ministers and executives of the Democratic Party are given and allowed to have some resources that are not so small and that they can have a monopoly and grab their profits. And the question arises, why is that so specific? It is obvious that Prime Minister Dragan Gilas should be allowed to continue to gain enormous personal wealth, shared with the Democratic Party. So far, he has been doing it from the National Office of Boris Tadic, and from now on, the National Investment Plan, especially since these funds are much greater. This is how it's allowed for Mr. Gilas to... We know for ourselves how he got rich and how he has absolute rights and advertising, everything, and on TV, wherever he shows up, he's become a monopoly, but now he's got no potential for his monopoly on everything he's ever done. For all the citizens to know, it's not exactly small funds. Part of the assets of this appraisal are intended to transfer the AP Vojvodina budget to the National Investment Plan for AP Vojvodina territory of 9,800,000 dinars. For the other projects of the National Investment Plan, the timetable and use of the funds of this appraisal will take place under a special government act. Under this special act of the government, you've meant it for Minister Gilas. Neither are we directed, nor will anyone here know where these funds will go, to what plans. This is where Gilasu's free hands are given to determine for himself, to extend companies or individuals, where these funds will be invested, so I believe that my colleague Nemanje Sarovic's amendment is a real amendment and that these reduce the rights of ministers, as well as their potential for budget abuses of this large amount of 9 billion. I hope you will accept this amendment, Mr. Nemanje Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14260	I thank the People's MP to Vlad Sekulic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14261	As for this position to which the amendment was tabled, he wrongly said earlier; it is not for Vojvodina 9,800,000, but for Serbia, without Vojvodina, envisaged, and for Vojvodina 9 billion dinars. I was going to say that this is another one of the plans that the legislators of this law have come up with so that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be told -- look at these Vojvodjans, they're rebelling and they're looking for something, and 50% of the funding provided for the National Investment Plan, or as I know it often says -- the pre-election investment plan, is scheduled for the transfer to the AP Vojvodina budget. I will tell you, after the adoption of the new constitution, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina has decided to form an AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. That fund was formed on 12. 12. In 2006, and the Vojvodjani immediately transferred 800,000 dinars from their budget to the fund. For 2007, based on last year's budget of the Republic of Serbia, this fund, with us in Vojvodina, was the position of 0707, not to bother you, to transfer or transfer funds of 20,529,720,181,73 dinars. It took exactly that long to pass on to the AP Vojvodina budget, which would have passed on to the Capital Investment Fund, and that would have been three weeks of those at least 7% that the Dukes could invest in their capital investments. I have data until September 30, because part of the coalition that is in power in the Duke's AP is skillfully hiding further data and members of the Executive Council of the Duke of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina can't get to the exact data, but I'll tell you what it was like, at the end of nine months, the inflow of funds into this fund. The revenue from the budget itself was 11.213,000 dinars, then it was privatisation funds - 764.918.300 dinars, and this one, so desirable, the funds to be made from the Serbian budget by September 30th came to an incredible two billion dinars. So, of those 20.5 billion, two billion arrived by the end of September in the AP Vojvodina budget and was transferred to this fund. In total, this fund spent 4,74,610 dinars by the end of September this year. How did that happen? Simply because the funds are coming under another law - the Privatisation Act, and I will remind you that he says that when it comes to enterprises that are privatised in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 50% of these funds are assets belonging to the AP Vojvodina budget. That's how these 2.5 billion were replaced, as far as it was, up to a mere 4.5 billion. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina and I suspect that in the last quarter more than 18.5 billion will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget. I think we rightly suspect that this is a more impossible mission than anything real, that 18.5 and a slightly more millions of dinars, belonging to the Dukes on the basis of the Constitution, will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget, and will be invested into this capital investment fund of ours. What happens next in Vojvodina? When it comes to the funds coming from privatisation, projects are launched in most municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina; these funds are coming from the Republic, and they are being pliers to get to Novi Sad and to all local self-government in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So, executively, all these funds are transferred to the Capital Investment Fund so that they can sort of wash away the projects that, hand to heart, have a lot to do. When done, then all the other secretaries, all the other positions in the Autonomous Province budget, suffer. They can't get that inflow, and the vault only works till Friday. Secretariats at the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, especially after the rebalancing in October and November, had a lot of competitions involving a lot of organisations, cooperatives, citizens, local communities and almost every local self-government and each expected some of these funds. Let me remind you that we have had a competition for rural development, irrigation, draining, edit of ataric roads, etc. None of these funds, none of these dollars, and these are not small funds, when they are added together by almost half a billion dinars, have arrived at the AP Vojvodina or at least not on the accounts of these secretariats who conducted these competitions, made decisions and signed contracts with institutions, which with organisations, which with citizens or local self-governments in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I can pass on to you, unless all that the Dukes expect is done, that many will not have a good time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14262	I thank Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Slobodan Maras submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment is in close contact with my previous amendment, and both refer to Article 4, by proposing that Article 4a be added here, i.e. to fully define and separate funds that go for capital expenditures, funds that go for salaries for employees in education, funds that go for culture in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I think that's necessary. It seems to me that the legislator has very skillfully tried to indicate that the funds to be transferred to Vojvodina in certain ways, i.e. does not indicate, that we are indeed left in the dilemmas which are the funds that will be transferred, or from which items, or economic classifications within the budget itself. I'm undermining once again, we've decided 9 billion from the NIP within the NIP Office. We have these 22-billion-dollar funds that go for education staff expenditures, and cultural funding expenditures are provided at 803 million, which is somewhere over 23 billion. My amendment is about separating, i.e. Article 4 above all, about how much funds go through the NIP, how much funds go through certain ministries, and within the framework of the NIP for Vojvodina, and this Article 4a would talk about these funds that go to education and culture employees being a special member. Of course, the government rejected such a proposal and, through its argument, gave the answer that the budget is one whole, that each member has an account and that any separation in the way I have suggested would not be whole, or would break the essence of the budget itself. I think it is much more important that we bear witness that this time the government will try to play the AP Vojvodina budget, namely that the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are not transferred to the amount to which the budget itself is bound and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia itself. Again, Professor Shami has arrived, and it would be nice to see your party president, or Prime Minister of the government, Mr Kostunica, telling us why he does not respect the Constitution, which is why he does not respect Article 184 which speaks of 7% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia being allocated to the AP Vojvodina. I hope you'll be able to pass on our call to him, since I see that the President of the Assembly doesn't have enough authority to call him, so let's see the Prime Minister and we can ask him some questions, and first of all, I'm undermining, which is why this constitution he fought so hard for doesn't respect himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14264	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Topalović. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalović.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14265	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, the ruling coalition not only does not accept amendments, but it does not consider them at all. He just doesn't seem to read them. You replied that the amendment did not comply with Article 10. The law on the budgetary system establishing that the budget consists of a general and specific part, which are mutually consistent with the types of expenditure. I have submitted an amendment relating to the general part of the budget, where expenditure has been summed up, but all of my colleagues from the SRS who submitted amendments to Article 5 have individually submitted amendments that individually refer to budget users. That's why my amendment applies to the general part of the expenditure. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, Mr. Minister, it seems the amendments do not seem to interest you at all by the SRS; you have predicted the expenditures as you predicted them. Ladies and gentlemen, the deficit will be 14.8 billion dinars in 2008. I said in the principle debate that the budget is too large for the level of gross social product we have. This will create new responsibilities, and you do not reduce public spending. You will cover the deficit from privatisation, and from the money obtained from privatisation you will return the unfavourable loans you have taken since 2001. Public debt for the country, there were talk of public debt, the current economic impotence that Serbia is worried about, 9,044,000 euros, with the responsibilities of natural persons i.e. Serbian citizens on the basis of loans from business banks amount to as much as 14 billion euros. In the course of strikes by educational, judicial and other workers, when small salaries in Serbia's military, as well as many other employees in Serbia, you spend the taxpayers' money uncontrollably. We have submitted a large number of amendments to Article 5. This amendment of mine is simply a collection of all these suggestions from my colleagues. The Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since '91. the year - 53,404,000 dinars. War Crimes Prosecution - 86,940,000 dinars. Agency for Foreign Investments in Export Promotion - 199,386,000 dinars, and the Agency's work effect is none. Other agencies serve you as an uncontrollable and unwarranted spending of taxpayers' funds, and in order to satisfy the ruling coalition with high wages and other givings their fighters of the five-octobaric coup. You have even more drastic examples to extract from the budget: The Office for Media Cooperation mentioned my colleague Vlado Sekulic, who belongs to 76,152,000 dinars, and will have one man, Dragan Djilas, who is considered to be the creator of the media darkness in Serbia. In this budget, we will list some more bad examples of the spending of taxpayers' money on Serbia, such as the EU's 78,947,000 dinars. As things stand, this office can exist for the next 20 to 30 years until, according to you, Serbia enters the EU. Money for the Office's work must be used to bribe third-rate EU officials who make small concessions for you. The budget of the Republic of Serbia was not based on achieved macroeconomic and fiscal results in the period January - August 2007. The truth is that imports have grown enormously, and profits have grown unreal. The fact is that poverty and misery are increasing in Serbia. I must point out once again that you pushed us into the CEFTA agreement, and Slovenia and Croatia have 40% of the capital of businesses in Serbia. The money you were about to spend on the arrest of The Hague indictees, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, the creation of an even worse media darkness, is aimed at smarter sides, especially the country's security system at the moment when they will surely try to take away our territory of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14266	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Members of the People's Parliament of Nada Kolundžija and Marko Djurisic submitted together to Article 5 of the amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Section 1, 3, 8, 9, 11, 15, 25 and 36 of the amendments, the People’s Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14267	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, for the amendment to Article 5. We Social Democrats League MPs are dissatisfied with the draft budget, but we believe that these amendments (of course that the budget cannot be created as we have imagined), just in these examples, by expressing our dissatisfaction we can indicate, if there is no good will now to create the way we think the 2008 budget, that yet some of the next attempts are valid. I believe that the proposal by Parliament of People's Parliament, Aleksandra Jerkov, to contribute to a much better fight against corruption, which is at an extremely high level in Serbia, is the amount of 100 million dinars intended for the travel costs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In a country like ours, it is not possible to provide an air service to the government and the money provided for by the draft budget for the air service, according to MEP Jerkov, as well as for us from LSV, should be transferred to institutions specialising in the treatment of children with cancer. Parliament member Jerkov further stated that the 200 million dinars provided for by the proposal for the foreign ministry services under the contract should be rerouted to the EU Association Office, which, both for you and the ruling coalition, for us from LSV, is very important. The MEP Jerkov believes that 20 million dinars provided for by the proposal for service under contract under the Military Intelligence Service should be rerouted to division 21, function 560, economic classification 424 - specialized services for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The government of the Republic of Serbia has stated that it does not accept the amendment to Article 5, to all these divisions, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Aleksandra Jerkov. I have just pointed out that we have no illusion that something big can change these amendments, but this is another attempt for us to think again before the adoption of the 2008 budget law. We believe that a lot of funds are allocated to the ministries and much less for the needs of the socially endangered categories of our society. If you listen to us, we think that this one, and in any case hopefully, and the next law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be much more valid. I call on the MPs present to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14268	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Marton. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Section 2, Section 2, Section 110, which concerns travel expenses for the President of the Republic, and the amount of 43 million is replaced by 20 million dinars. So far, Serbian President Boris Tadic, and since 4 February, the former president, while serving as president, had to make a long journey by force. But he travels where he should and where he shouldn't. Where he should not travel, such as Zagreb, so he apologizes to Mesic, he bows before the creator of the exodus of Serbs from Republika Srpska and Croatia. He doesn't ask anyone about it or who can forbid it. The question now is how those citizens who voted for Boris Tadic in 2004 feel. He'll probably see it himself in the upcoming presidential election. How the exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska, Croatia, who are also today, unfortunately, second-class citizens in Serbia, do not talk about what their human rights are in Croatia. They don't have the right to hijacked apartments or kidnapped houses or hijacked property. Then Tadic came to Mesic and threw it all under his feet. Also, we remember Boris Tadic's trip to Srebrenica, Potocara, where he remembered to go, well that he was not personally welcomed there by Naser Oric, but he forgot to go to Bratunac the next day for the killed 3,000 Serbs; he sent his envoy, Jovan Savic or Simic, who was literally excavated there. However, we do not know when Tadic travels as president of the Republic and when he travels as president of the Democratic Party. It is not worth explaining how immoral this is, because it would be immoral for someone whose members of the parties mentioned sold, with a good commission, sugars, cements, ironworks, etc. You remember, honourable MPs, they probably remember the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when Boris Tadic strayed in Skopje's fog on one of his many trips. On that occasion, he encountered Hashim Thaci, the greatest villain among the Shiptar terrorists. Would any of you colleagues stop to talk to the bad guy Thaci? No one normal in Serbia would do that today. The President of the Republic does not need this 43m, but 20m, as most of the money is spent on wasteful visits to EU countries. Now you can see the effect of these trips, warm hugs, smiles, etc. All EU countries, except Cyprus, are being kidnapped by Kosovo and Metohija. Solana himself comes to Belgrade, not to spend the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. A man comes in, gives orders, hugs himself in front of cameras with Boris Tadic and returns to Brussels. With Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic sure as hell will not spend this much money on travel that has no purpose and that are turning into humiliation. Also, Boris Tadic should no longer travel abroad to watch our teammates play important international games, because em spends money, the president puts himself at risk of being beaten up by rival fans, and perhaps ours, too, is malfeasance, so ours regularly loses that game. Given all this, I hope MPs will accept this amendment by the Serbian Radical Party in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14270	I thank the People's Messenger Radishi Ilic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 2, 12, 19 and 29 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14271	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Vladan Batic almost got a word before the deadline. Only we can do that “before the deadline. ” Mr. Minister, I have submitted a serious amendment. Since the budget is one complicated law, then Article 5 regulates everything, so this amendment is massive at first sight. The first part is to increase funding for humanitarian organisations, and to confiscate those funds from the President of the Republic, where the cost for the People's Office is completely foggy. You gave the answer that it wasn't possible and that it wasn't even the same source. Of course, I have submitted this part of the amendment for two reasons: one is political, one is humanitarian. The Socialist Party of Serbia is protesting that there is a para-state body that you call the National Office, which has 32 employees and who spends enormous financial resources, and fully, under the Law on Government, each of these jobs is entrusted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think this country can tolerate it anymore, but you have a different view of it, you said it wasn't possible. I hope that colleagues who think of this as I do will vote in the day to vote on this amendment, because it doesn't make any sense anymore. The President of the Republic had previously been in co-habitation with the government and had created the National Office. Shaper and the other marketing people thought it was important. They created a National Office that did para-state work and promoted the president of the Republic and DS with budget funds from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now you're a single coalition, or you're not, I don't know, you have power and it's completely unnecessary for this to stand here. So that's my point of view. You said yours and we'll see in the voting day. The second part of the amendment refers to increasing funds for the hydrometeorological institution. Not to mention the numbers, it doesn't matter here. I'm asking you to make a statement on this, if possible today. I remind you that the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture was in June or July of last year, that the MPs involved in the work found that in the previous agricultural season of the HMZ, among other things, it was not effective because it did not have the necessary number of anti-urban missiles and that, for this reason, a larger number of places in Serbia, i.e. most of Serbia's territory, was affected by this elemental disaster. I also remind you that the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006 provided for more funding for agriculture than this ministry was able to spend and that the 2007 budget, based on this, part of the Republic of Serbia's agriculture budget was smaller because the previous minister was unable to spend the funds. I also remind you, Mr. Minister, that a few months ago in the assembly procedure, I let the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, where I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to exempt the anti-urban rockets from the procurement process, because one of the findings was that last year it was difficult to purchase anti-surveillance missiles because of the lack of financial resources, and now I suggest that they increase a little bit, and because the complicated procurement procedure is such that even when you have funds, it has to go through six months to get the missiles. So what I'm talking about is what every farmer in Serbia is interested in, and therefore every citizen in Serbia. Did something else happen in the meantime that we haven't been informed of, so RHMZ, on the other hand, is relaxed and he can make this purchase from some other means or you've simply overlooked it, I don't know, but I'm asking you to answer this. This is a very serious question. The estimated damage from the city last year is much higher than the budget for this position. So is it possible for us here to make sure that the state is safe, that the citizens and businesses involved in agriculture are certain that, to the extent possible, anti-urban protection will function to reduce the damage, or are we going to go back to risk? I also remind you that the category of anti-urban shooters is a category financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget with 3,000 dinars a month and that some municipalities add 3,000 dinars a month and possibly thousands of dinar fuel costs per month. It's, at best, 6-7 thousand a month. I assure you that in many Serbian villages, people who are close to 80 years of life do so, that no one is motivated to deal with this responsible work, that a citizen who agrees to do this must be constantly available, therefore, as in medical institutions there is a readiness, it must be constantly available, on the radio 24 hours a day for six months a year, must arrive within the shortest possible time to the station from which it works on construction clouds and must leave every other job entrusted to him for any other reason, if he receives an invitation from the HMZ competent centre to act on construction clouds. So this is a very complex area. All Serbian citizens are interested in it. It's very important that we know if what you've predicted in the budget is enough to get enough anti-building missiles. I wanted to remind you, I suppose your colleague Milosavljevic does this, that last year's average anti-urban missile equipment was 3 - 5, and that it takes 8 - 10 to get them to do that job the state entrusted to them and that they are doing, above all, out of feelings of personal responsibility towards their own anniversary and their neighbours' years, not because they would earn these three thousand dollars paid by the state from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So this is a completely unsettled area. There was a promise that the state would study other anti-building protection models in Serbia, develop a system of insurance, action and operation from airplanes and others, but until this issue is resolved it must be covered by funding in such a way that it has enough rockets. Also, I want you to know that rocket manufacturers only want to produce for a secure buyer. They don't make salami, so when they don't sell HMZ, they'll sell it to someone else. Those funds should, practically, be paid off, these missiles should be taken over in succession or here, please tell us, RHMZ has declared missiles that haven't been delivered, which is why there's less money. If so, my amendment is unnecessary. I believe it isn't, because every year we have this problem and every year we have the same effect, and the result is a great shame. So, if I don't get into the details, we can talk about it for a long time, I think Mr. Masic has also submitted a similar amendment, they're just different numbers, it's very important that we study this in a way that will reduce the risk of this elemental accident to the least possible extent. Otherwise, people will shoot, plant, dig, and they won't be able to reap, they won't be able to harvest the harvest, they'll be demoted. In addition, there are cultures, Mr. Minister, such as fruit and others, when in one year the city destroys a young orchard or raspberries for now, it is in four or five years, practically, at the very beginning and has to do it all over again. So it's not just about one year, it's about the complete destruction of one culture, or one plot that's impossible to use in another way, to bring it to the same level that it was at four or five years ago. This is a very important issue, this is not a political issue, this is a question that is of interest to every farmer, every agricultural good in Serbia, and thus to the state. So, I'd like to ask you, if possible, to make a statement today on this part, is it possible, HMZ... And by the way, he's very defensive, as the villagers in my village would say, that he's doing more, he thinks he's no longer the state authority to be entrusted with this job and he's asking for someone else to do it. So the state has a great responsibility to weigh in this year on how this area will be regulated and who will spend these funds. Once again I ask you, did the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute possibly authorise these funds to potential missile suppliers, and there are only three of them in this country, "Longed", "Crusik" and some others, or is it an oversight? If it stays like you said in the budget, it's going to be between two and four grenades again, let me put it Colloquially, at one anti-urban station. I remind you, there are a lot of these stations in Serbia. There are 37 of them in Chačka. It's a huge number of anti-building stations. If there are eight anti-urban missiles each, big financial resources are needed, and that item is not enough to cover it at an optimal level. So, I'm asking my colleagues in voting day, now that this campaign is going to the peasants, they're trying bread and salt, they're harassing the animals in the peasants' farms, and they're doing other things for the promotion of their candidates, to remember this amendment, to remember these people when there's a dark sky, and then after 10 minutes they can lose everything they've been doing all year. So this is about one serious question. I ask for a serious response and a serious decision by political parties in the voting day, either with my amendment or with the amendment of Dr. Masic. So it doesn't matter what amendment is going to be accepted, and one and the other are treating the same problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14272	I thank the People's MP. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, the People's MP Dr Vladan Batic submitted. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14273	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment relating to several parts, i.e. primarily to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister in the matter of travel expenses, to the Secretary General of the Government, where there are also enormous travel costs, the Council for the fight against corruption - I believe that the total budget for this significant institution is too small, then so on. The staff management services and the government's Air Force Service that should be completely abolished because of the only damage they have left, and there's no use. The first thing I mentioned was the travel expenses of the Deputy Prime Minister, 20 million dinars. So, Mr Djelic spends more on the journey than the overall budget of the Anti-Corruption Council. The budget of the Anti-Corruption Council is 13 million, and the travel costs of the Deputy Prime Minister are 20 million. Where does the Deputy Prime Minister travel? Let's see what the effects of his journey, what is the benefit of the state of Serbia and its citizens from Mr Djelic's journey? However, there is an item here - services per contract. Again, I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister if this has anything to do with his partnership with one of the heads of the tobacco mafia, the one charged on Friday, and whether he's even in a serious state, which tends to be legal, normal for a man to continue to be vice president of the government, and his business partner has been charged by a special prosecutor for organised crime as one of the heads of the tobacco mafia. Then this same Deputy Prime Minister here gives us lessons and claims to be the main promoter of Mr. Boris Tadic's campaign. There's something wrong. So, this is really enormous, Mr. Minister, you could listen a little bit, if the Deputy Prime Minister spent 20 million from the pockets of the taxpayers of Serbia for pointless travel, and that the price of these trips is higher than what is set out for many significant institutions, I repeat, illustrations working, for the Anti-Corruption Council. For example, the costs of these trips are almost 10 times higher than the costs of the Prime Minister's trip. What kind of logic is that? Where does that make sense? Or the Deputy Prime Minister hired dozens of people in his cabinet for reasons known to him, because he was in Brussels and made a diplomatic scandal. Don't send him anywhere. As soon as a man speaks stupid things. What he's saying is stupid, it's not a problem, it's hurting this country. Macedonia, which is our friendly country, sent a diplomatic note, called our ambassador to Skopje, because Bozidar Djelic said -- the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia at a meeting in Brussels. So, he said Serbia does not recognise sovereign Macedonia. Then, to show that it can be even dumber, he said that in action to arrest Albanian terrorists and criminals in Shari besides the Macedonian police our police also participated. Then Agim Ceka used it and said -- we say that the Serbian security service and police are doing not only in Kosovo, but also in neighbouring countries. It's a balance of travel for Bozidar Djelic. Wherever he goes, he does stupid things and does damage to this country. He cheated, lied when we join the EU, when we sign an Association and Stabilisation Agreement. In a few days, Mr. Minister, if you are not informed, because you are in the government led by the uninformed, there will be a resolution on Serbia's non-accession of the EU and will be voted and will receive most of the votes of the MPs. So, where will Djelic travel further? Where will Djelic travel, and why will he continue to spend money? There is also a person, she is a special item in this budget, which responds to Tanja Miscevic, who whenever she appears, Malten, we have already entered the EU, they just haven't told us that, they haven't informed us. Let's be serious. The General Secretariat of the Government – this really isn't normal, 70 million is travel expenses. Then we have that controversy, which I've already started, about the Anti-Corruption Council, where you informed me and delivered the papers that they got as much as they asked for. Yes, because you've previously sent them instructions that they can't ask for more. What people, as polite and brought up, are going to ask for so many crumbs, and Bozidar Djelic has 30 percent more than the overall budget of the Anti-Corruption Council. I should also ask what the Democratic Party has done and if it has done anything and if it has removed from the position of the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs of a man who has filed a criminal complaint on behalf of Delta against Verica Barac. So, the president of your Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr. Goran Draganic, a lawyer who, by definition, should have represented or at least helped consult the Council on Combating Corruption, because this is the institution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where the DS has a majority, so it could be said that it is the institution of the majority in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Anti-Corruption Council, led by Mrs. Verica Barac... Since it is being attacked from all sides by these monopolies and criminals, then I guess it was logical that the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs protects the institution of his party. Instead, he heads the Delta legal team and submits criminal charges against Verica Barac, and the same application has been rejected. Did the Democratic Party reject Goran Draganic? Because it's immoral. Remember, it's immoral. The Anti-Corruption Council is the mirror of a state of law. Where are we in Europe and in the world regarding the degree of corruption? On one of the leading ones. Well, as a little water on the palm of your hand, you need to be careful, to be careful, to cultivate, to encourage, to encourage, to move, to mobilise, to mobilise, to fund the Anti-Corruption Council, not to trip at every step. This ruling coalition has been fought like horns in a bag. No one thinks well, no one thinks well, no one thinks well. There's only one point of merger, one cohesion factor -- that's Delta. I don't know why Mr. Miskovic's ruling coalition didn't propose to be a joint candidate for president when you're so idyllic about it, I guess it makes sense that you're doing it in public. You're fighting about everything else, but the Delta guy who says otherwise is slandering and lying. You're here solid. That idyll lasts and that love will never be broken. The staff management service is completely unnecessary and it is the withdrawal of money from the taxpayers of Serbia. What are these people doing? What are those frames? Well, here's the most negative selection there is, there's an enormous number of party personnel in every ministry. It's a hyperproduction of personnel, no more cleaners, no couriers, no porters can be unless they're from a party holding that ministry. Then, for God's sake, the government has a staff management service. What frames? Have those from Kosovo, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, most of whom have not set foot in Kosovo and Metohija? What frames? Those institutions from Kosovo and Metohija sitting in Belgrade, such as libraries, museums, PIO funds, tax administrations and everything else, and receiving double salaries? But they worry, care for Kosovo, suffer, dive bitter tears, and man is simply moved to see them despair over the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. What black frames, so they became genetic mutants. They started to look like each other. Also, the government's Air Force Service, or what will be the cost of each possible budget item? We're a very strong state, we have a very serious government, so we still need an Air Force Service. Of course, then a minister with three bodyguards, no one in Serbia knows him, is at risk under the vault of the sky, and five advisers, and then they fly on a government plane. Where they go to some gatherings or meetings the word doesn't speak, it's like they're deaf. They run shopping and back and then costs and then that's why we need the Air Force. I've never, and I've been a minister for three years, I've never flown on any plane except JAT's, and not business class, but economic class. This is where the cabinets are equipped with plasma TVs, drinks, because I guess there's a TV show in the cabinets and drinks instead of work. Well, that's why there's no money to pay for the Prokupala reservers, those who might have to hang out in the trenches again tomorrow. That's why you have a white plague there, as well as in all of Serbia. Here's what a showcase of a jeweler in Kursumlia looks like, here's what it's for. It shows the video. Death certificate, hundreds of death certificates. So beautiful, Serbia is slowly dying and these people are turning into second-class citizens, so that we can have the Staff and Air Force Management Service and have plasma TVs and bars with expensive drinks in the cabinets. That's why we tabled these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14274	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? Yeah. ) There is a word, according to the amendment, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14275	Mr. Albianic, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the SPS believes that high costs are in the position of the Serbian government's Air Service, but we also believe that it should exist because in the previous period, specifically for the new year 2001, the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia travelled to Abu Dhabi by private jet Stanko Subotic Canet. The plane was piloted by the sons of Zecevic, the official "Partizan", and Jovica Stanisic. I think the serious government must have serious technical assistance. Whether this government is serious we can talk about it, but it must never happen again that the Prime Minister benefits that service from anyone but his country's competent technical service and government. The price of these services usually comes later and with interest. It is therefore illegal, for technical, financial, moral, counterintelligence and many other reasons, that ministers, Prime Minister, any senior state deputy, President of the Republic, Chief of Staff or anyone else use any other technical assistance and technical means other than those established by the Government as their own service, as their technical support. That is why Serbian citizens should allocate financial resources. We're just plowing off with the amount of that item. Otherwise, she's supposed to exist. As there should never be a private service for the Prime Minister ever again from a troubled businessman and troubled pilots, because where they are, there is no way of having any conversation without hanging that up on some advertising board. From that detail, it is possible to understand why the government should have an Air Service. If the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who used this service today were alive, I would talk more strongly about it in another way, but it only limits me to say what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14276	There is a word from MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14277	This is my replica of what Mr. Baralic said. Mr Baralic, what you just said is the same campaign run by Dusan Spasojevic, Milorad Ulemek Legion, their newspaper "Identity" and Tijanic, arguing that you have now presented. Because what you've just said is false and you owe the Djindjic family an apology. Why? Because I know that, I get the circumstances. You said that in Dubai, Zoran Djindjic was on a plane to Stanko Subotic Canet. That's not true, Mr. Baralic. The flight was attended by Zoran Djindjic, Slobodan Milosavljevic, the government's minister today, and Vladimir Beba Popovic. To Istanbul, they flew JAT, from Istanbul to Dubai, to Lufthanz. Therefore, it is the same manner, the same story, the same "Identity" that first wrote and called for the shooting and the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Don't use the lies that some have created an atmosphere that preceded the late prime minister's murder, because what you just said behind the pay phone is simply not true. Don't let a criminal newspaper like "Identity" educate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14278	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm just asking you not to further debate, please be within the limits of courtesy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14279	Thank you, Mr. Albianic. It's always been within the limits of decency. Everyone seriously knows that I am in a serious place educated and that I never educate myself by reading tabloids in Serbia. So, along the way, I ask a parliamentary question -- how many times has the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic been to Dubai? Besides, I don't share the value of the gentlemen mentioned, as you said, these, the Earth clan, and so on, they didn't bring me and bring me, but they took me from the authorities, or they took me down, to say Colloquial. So I had nothing to do with it. So my address wasn't malicious, all I said was true, absolutely, who doesn't believe let him check it out. I hope the government protocol says exactly how many times and where anyone traveled. If the government doesn't know that, they know at least three services in Serbia. So that's where it all says, who went where, who he went with, how much he worked there, and what business he went to. So, there's no reason, I don't do it that way with you, I'm just telling you, I don't know what it says in "Identity," I don't care. I haven't read a newspaper like that. I'll tell you, without being understood as a model, I've been reading Politics since I learned to read these other newspapers because I need to be informed. So, absolutely it wasn't a bad intention, I was just saying that what's plowing with the government's budget position for the Air Force, as far as I'm concerned, is wrong and I've given a very specific argument about it. I will no longer participate in this debate. I'm looking for an answer to the parliamentary question I've just asked here. I'm sorry if in any way anyone was hurt about this, I chose very much when I talked about this. Look at the stenogram, I didn't say a single ugly thing, and I said why I stopped talking about it the way I could talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14280	Mr. Baralich, I'm sorry, I'm really not sure if it's a decent question to ask an answer to such a question. I understand you're setting him up in public, but don't look for him now...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14281	Why isn't it a decent question if I'm told I'm a liar here? I'm looking for official information.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14282	Polemics are possible, but not now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14283	Mr. Albianic, I didn't do anything to make a bad impression on anyone, I'm just thinking about something that's been said here. So, maybe tomorrow Mr. Batic will be Minister again, so he might need a plane again. Therefore, the serious government must have this government and every other government, and it must never use private commercial aircraft, as it must not use private yachts, and some use them today and they used them in the past tense period, because then it costs the state. It's my polemic, it's not a polemic... Let's go back to what's topic. So I said something that's true, who doesn't believe, please bring me an answer to the parliamentary question I asked. That's where I end this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14284	The word has a People's MP Vladan Batic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14285	I didn't want to take part in this region at all. I've responded only to something that isn't true and I repeat, so that you know that, Mr. Baralic, if you can check it out, very gladly, and you should check it out. So, late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, at the invitation of Sheikh Abu Dhabi, was for the New Year with his wife and children, Slobodan Milosavljevic with his wife, Vladimir Beba Popovic, flew to Istanbul by JAT, from Istanbul, "Lufthanz", not by Stanko Subotic Canet. I have the right to my amendment and my position. I mentioned how we acted. Maybe Zoran Djindjic was even overly thrifty. There were strong controversys in the government; some ministers traveled abroad, costing about 500 - 600 euros using a mobile phone in Romania. For two hours there was a controversy in the government. The ministers' salaries were less than the deputy minister's salary. I know the Justice Minister's salary was less than the judge's salary. That probably wasn't good. I'm referring to my example: I've never travelled on a private plane when I was a member of the government, I was exclusively flying JAT. I know I had a problem once when the government was guaranteeing in the tribunal, so JAT was late, so they called Munich to meet me at the airport so I could get to Amsterdam, because there was a conference in The Hague. So, that may be wrong, I know that one time to Washington the Prime Minister and his head of the Information Bureau paid out of his pocket Vladimir Beba Popovic. It is also not supposed to be done by one government, but that was Zoran Djindjic. I'm just saying that what you said about the trip to Emirate, by the plane of Stanko Subotic Canet, is not true. That's all I've come forward for, and I have no intention of participating in this region, but I have said it without thinking or alluding that you are now making such a campaign and propaganda, but because it was a list of "Identity", a list of assassins from the Earth clan, anathematically, satanizing and criminalizing Zoran Djindjic, and it ended with his death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14286	Does anyone else appear on the amendment of MP Vladan Batic? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Section 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14287	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Section 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.4, and Function 110 refers to the Office for Media Cooperation. The SRS parliamentary group, whose name I submitted this amendment, believes that the government should be a little more thrifty and one of the ways that the government saves a little is that the Office for Media Cooperation should be removed from the budget costs, i.e. to delete this member in this part. We believe that this work done by the Office for Media Cooperation should be done by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that no special government authority is needed, as this only increases the costs of the administration. So what does the Secretary General do if there's a press co-operation office? Of course, that Serbia is in some better times, or conditions, that Serbian citizens live better and that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made sure that new jobs are opened, that profits are increased, pensions are increased, then perhaps we would not suggest such an amendment to the SRS. But if we know what the majority of Serbian citizens are in, if we know how to really live, not paying attention to what we hear from the ruling majority representatives, from representatives of the government who talk about some average earnings that sound very nice, I just don't know how many citizens fit in these average earnings, who keep telling us everything is wonderful and wonderful, as if we don't know and how this people don't know how they live, how hard they live, we really should take care of what the citizens of Serbia pay. Because I remind the citizens of Serbia that the budget is being filled right out of the funds of Serbian citizens. Then it would really be, at the very least, in particular by the government of the Republic of Serbia to take care of how the funds taken from citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be spent. We don't need citizens... Ask Serbian citizens what the government's press co-operation office means to them, if they need it. Believe that the vast majority will say that they don't need it, that they're not ready to allocate funds for the needs of these offices. And now, if you don't think this is just some kind of whim, I'll tell you in detail what's scheduled and how much total funds are provided for that press co-operation office. 76,152,000 dinars are scheduled. Believe me, that's not small. If you were to adopt this amendment and other amendments to the SRS, then, believe me, ministers, both you and the Government would have much less problems with the education workers, with farmers, with employees in the judiciary, because all of these funds for these budget users that we predict would remain in the budget and be divided where we think it is much more necessary and necessary. Then you wouldn't have to underestimate, say, educational workers, to tell them that you're increasing their salary by 2%, or workers in municipal, or judicial administrations. If you had taken care of yourself and acted domestically, if you hadn't made a pre-election budget, then you would certainly have one budget with these amendments that most citizens in Serbia would have been as happy with. This budget that you're about to adopt is so bad and it's just putting your hands on the citizens in your pocket, and none of it's gonna look good, of course, except for those who are on high-ranking government posts, because they're also being funded from here. Therefore, the Office for Media Co-operation for Salaries, Supplements and Compensation of Employees is scheduled to spend 35,621,000. Social contributions to the employer’s burden – 6,411,000; this is a legal obligation. For social contributions to employees – 700,000 dinars. We really didn't understand what social contributions are to employees in the Office for Media Cooperation. I would very much like you, Minister, to explain to us what kind, and to whom you will be giving these social benefits in this Office for Co-operation with the media of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Costs for employees, that's where one million is scheduled. Permanent costs – 4.5 million dinars. Now, it's interesting, travel costs – 3,510,000. Where will your employees from the Office of Media Cooperation travel? Who's traveling? Do they follow the Prime Minister on all the trips, do they follow you, Minister? Why did you provide for so much means for these trips? I would really ask you, Minister, to answer all these questions. In addition to the fact that for the Office for Media Cooperation you have the intended resources to work as employees, you have provided in the budget services under contract for 20,650,000 dinars. This is also unclear to us in the SRS and we are asking, Minister, to answer this question, or to tell us exactly what services are under the contract of the Office for Media Cooperation, and for what is 20,650,000 dinars to be paid for? Current repairs and maintenance are 250,000, material 2.5 million dinars, machines and equipment of millions of dinars. The sources of funding are exclusively from the budget, and that is, as I said, a total of 76,152,000 dinars. The government has not accepted this amendment, and in its explanation the government says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is proposed to delete all funds identified for the Office for Media Co-operation, which was established by the Regulation establishing a Office for Media Cooperation. Well, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the government, the 2005 government of the Republic of Serbia regulation establishing a press co-operation office is not a sacred letter. You accept this amendment and that means automatically that this regulation can no longer have legal power, because there would be no such office for co-operation either. You're saying you don't accept the amendment because we're asking for an expropriation of all funds. Yes, we've been looking for an expropriation of all resources, or we've asked for the abolition of the Office for Media Cooperation as completely unnecessary with, I repeat, the argument that this job can and should be done by the General Secretariat of the Government. Next you say - and on the basis of Article 31(1). The government law, as a government service and, therefore, this service is a budgetary user whose work is provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Well, you've explained something to us that we know, but we want it to be that way. And what you've listed here is this regulation that was passed on the basis of Article 31. The government law, Article 31, does not state that a regulation that provides for a press co-operation office must be adopted, but rather a general provision that determines the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So your explanation is inconclusive. You wrote it just enough to write something, to explain to us, if someone reads it, how, God, the Office for Media Cooperation was founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You know, you, Mr. Minister, were in the DOS campaign in 2000, destroying power among other things because, as you claimed, many of the regulations were managed, and this government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the previous, most of the affairs, is, unfortunately, acting in regulations, and then this is the way for Serbian citizens to mostly not be familiar with these facts. The regulations, that is true, are published in the Official Messenger, and the Official Messenger is read by lawyers who need it to do their daily work, and the public of the work of the Government of Serbia ends there. So, once again, Minister, I suggest you adopt this amendment, too, to adopt all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. You saw that the amendments, if you looked at them, of course, were written very seriously, that we absolutely respected the way the amendments are written to the budget, that for every item we asked to delete we predicted that these funds should be directed to some other items that, according to us, we needed more. That, first of all, is agriculture, which you have completely ignored in this draft budget, Mr. Minister. That's why we spoke in the principle debate, and today, it's not enough just for your presence here. We understand that you are unable to answer each of these questions. No matter what you're doing as finance minister, all the ministers here were supposed to be here to answer, because they were giving you proposals from their ministries, so you based on that, or your services formed the text of this budget. If you are unable to answer the questions I have asked you, I ask you best to be informed during the course of this debate, because we really find it very interesting what these funds are intended for. They're not small funds, Mr. Minister. Why will the Office of Media Cooperation conclude these contracts to perform certain services? Why and who will travel from that office? So that would be what I expect of you, given your explanation why you do not accept the amendment. You were about to say that maybe something in this section can be erased, but that still remains the Office of Media Cooperation, because that's the essence of your answer. Then explain to us at least these most critical parts of this article, or this section that I'm talking about right now. Unless the minister accepts, and I'm convinced he won't, since he's quite uninterested, and that's obvious, for this Parliament's work... While you're sitting there neatly, Minister, you're not involved in the work. It's not just enough to sit around, you have to show that you know what's in this budget, that you know how to answer every question of the MP. Given that you will not, then I propose to the MPs of this House that they vote with all their hearts for this amendment in the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14288	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14289	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment proposed that the Office for EU Accession be abolished practically. I do not understand why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment when this amendment agrees significantly with the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. I also claimed in principle that European integration for this government became the ninth hole in the play. When BIA has 3.4 billion dinars and salaries in 1953, it is simply devastating that the EU Association Office has one million euros, it is 79 million dinars, and that the office will have, or will have 53 employees in the following year, which is one employee more than in 2007. You know what the result of this policy is? The result is that Serbia will receive only one billion dinars from pre-accession funds over the next six years, and new EU members, who have a similar population as Serbia, will receive more than 20 billion grants for their development projects in the same period. So each country is similar to 20 billion euros over the next six years. We lose 20 billion euros because the priorities of this government are not European integration. Let me remind you, on 1 October 2006, the G17 Plus party left the government and the Assembly when it found that negotiations with the EU are stopping, that European integration should be stopped, and since the priorities of this budget are certainly not European integration, I want to ask the question, above all, to the G17 Plus MPs, how can you vote for the proposed 2008 budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14290	Just to remind you that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been initialled. He'll be signed soon. Thank you for your objection, Mr. Marton. The word is from the People's Messenger Saša Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment to Section 3, Chapter 3.5, submitted on behalf of the SRS, MP Dejan Mirovic. Mr Mirovic submitted this amendment where he asked that, instead of the allocation of funds for the European Union's Association Office, the title should be changed and said: "The Office for Association with Eastern European, All-Slovenian and Orthodox countries". Why did Mr Dejan Mirovic submit this on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group? These days, we have statements from all representatives of Western European countries, as well as the EU's stance to declare Kosovo and Metohija an independent state. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that one who works against the state of Serbia and the Serb people cannot be our business partner, nor should we support the accession of such countries. Just now, a fellow MP was talking about losing 20 billion. Does he know what the 1999 war damage is? Over 100 billion. This was to be paid to the state of Serbia, and these were the promises of the then DOS, when it was due to come to power on October 5th, that with the help of its EU and US friends, it would get that war damage and that Serbia would flourish. We see that after seven years Serbia is increasingly sinking; this fairy tale of the EU, of prosperity, of a better life, has led to the fact that everything we had in Serbia, which was worth, as far as businesses are concerned, sold out in this robbery privatisation; now we have over a million unemployed, and this figure is increasing every day. Every day we receive calls from citizens, especially public workers, because they know that after privatising what is left of these large systems, there is a surefire, so that more tolls and the economy of Serbia, and even more will increase the number of unemployed in Serbia. As for joining Eastern European, all-Slovenian and Orthodox countries, joining the countries mentioned could improve business co-operation between Serbia and those countries, especially Russia. I'll give you an example, my own personal example when I was headed by a municipal delegation. Since the municipality of Požarec and the town of Volokolamsk gathered some 30 days ago, we have achieved in this co-operation that a Russian company has already made business co-operation agreements between a fire-fighting business operator, so that the co-operation after the New Year's holidays should already take place. They were the only ones interested, of all your friends from Europe who were coming, to open up some production facilities. They offered to open the same factory as in Moscow, to invest several million euros, to employ over 200 workers, unlike all those who came from these countries, who only open up hypermarkets and supermarkets here, thus destroying Serbia's complete trade and all the trade chains we had, which worked, so we are now the biggest importers, not the producers of those domestic goods we had up to about ten years ago. That is why, and because of the very support of all these peoples who are here, and especially of all Slovenian and Orthodox countries, the position of the Serbian Radical Party is to open the office and move the money to improve co-operation with these countries, not with the European Union that has announced that it will allow Albanian separatists to declare Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14292	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, of course LSV cannot support this amendment, because when it comes to the name itself - the Office for Association with Eastern European, All-Slovenian and Orthodox countries, I do not understand what that would mean. We were not directed to Serbia's goal of joining another country. As such, the European Union is an entity of international law and a set of member states which, by their own free will, decide to enter it or not. It is not possible for one country to join another country for the simple reason that it reflects the country's subjective attitude. We believe that Serbia should be a sovereign state, that it should not be attached to any other country. I hope it is not on the background of what the deputy president of your party said while he was president of this assembly – that he has a desire for Serbia to become Russian Governor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14294	The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in these times of the political party, they are slowly legalizing themselves. They're legalizing who's who and who's for what, and they're legitimateizing different regional organizations who's for who and who's against who. The story of the European Union could have gone to this, let's say, the ruling majority, until the other day. So, until the other day, since the EU has completed that part of the job started by America, the four largest European Union countries have insisted that Serbia recognise Kosovo as an independent state. These stories that Serbia's entry into the EU is not conditioned by Kosovo's independence, these are stories for young children. They told you nicely - we do not condition you to recognise an independent Kosovo, but you cannot enter the European Union until the Kosovo issue is resolved, so they took it to be resolved. How? By kidnapping Serbia 15% of its territory. You forgot something else, Kosovo's independence and our recognition of the independence of that Kosovo has a different consequence, which is that we are the ones responsible for NATO's intervention in 1999. It also recalls that we may have to pay for their war damage, pay the costs they had when they bombed us, kill our children, tear down our hospitals, our bridges and our factories. This is what the European Union is leading us to do. Why don't you once say that the European Union, as it is, isn't just what we see, is also the part that can't be seen, which are all the restrictions that the EU can bring us, which all the consequences of joining the EU? Why don't you say that one part of tradition, our culture and customs will have to give up? Why don't you say that, like a lot of other things? In the end, let the people decide. We of the SRS believe that, at the worst and most difficult times, the Russian Federation has helped us the most, and it has helped us the most before, as much as it could. For some, it's funny, but Serbia was the only one who had the benefit of importing oil and oil products, gas imports, and thus made social peace and social security here in Serbia. What's your problem? The problem is, these benefits are gone. Why isn't there? You're talking about donations, European integrations, NATO membership, and don't be surprised what they say -- we're treating you marketly from now on. You're not so privileged anymore. Why doesn't our government insist on a bigger... There is also a minister, why is the trade agreement between the Russian Federation and Serbia not applicable? Why don't we use their customs and tax breaks? Why don't we let the Russian capital take part in the privatisation? Let's treat everything equally, and the European Union and the Russian Federation. No, you have turned to the EU and whatever they tell you, it is God's command to you. How far did that get us? To a chaotic privatisation where you don't know who drinks and who pays, where the economic operators are donated, not sold. And this healthy thing we had ruined in the privatisation of the crisis headquarters in 2000. How far did she get the tax system reform? It led to citizens not having to think about anything more, but just how to pay taxes. Why don't you say that there, besides taking taxes, is a tax return to the citizens and why don't you apply it? No, you're applying by increasing the state's apparatus, increasing public spending. Where are the government's social programs to be financed from this programme? Why are we growing the number of the poor? You measure the number of poor by income, and the number of poor is measured by what anyone can buy, so you find some parallel similarities between 1999, 2000 and 2007. It can't be compared. The electricity was cheap, the food was cheap. How much does bread cost you now, and then how much did it cost? You want to join the European Union? I don't mind, but let's get to the EU's values in the material, financial, social and other programmes, so when we get there, let's ask ourselves, and don't be so crippled, backwards as to drag you there. Why don't you say that by entering Serbia we're going to have to open the borders and that our economy, what little remains, will not have any more of this little customs protection it now has? Why don't you say that you won't be able to sell our goods on the market in your country, that's why our workers won't be able to work in factories either? Why don't you say so? Why don't you say what's the biggest foreign trade country in the world? Everything's funny to you, I see. But this whole Europe, however colorful, beautiful, large, it depends on the only tap in Moscow. Remember, when it came to Chechnya, when the European Union imposed sanctions on Russia, how long the sanctions lasted. Two hours, until they started freezing across the European Union. Then they said-- sorry, we were joking, it wasn't real. Why don't you turn to friends who want to treat us completely evenly, who wants co-operation between the two countries to be mutually beneficial? Why do you turn to those who ask us to serve them? Why is there so much panic in the large European Union systems when they heard that maybe the Russian Federation, or Russian companies, would participate in privatising Serbia's oil industry? Why are you so scared? Besides, whatever those Russians are, and as much as anyone's criticizing them, one thing they've never done -- they never bombed us. Never. They never wanted to take away a piece of our territory. None of them have ever been killed. You can't tell this pro-Western gentleman that. I will take advantage of the opportunity when we talk about this, since the previous speaker was with me, I was in one delegation with the aim of finding out about the European Parliament's functioning system. This is the European Union's Parliament. All the MPs who spoke to us did not tell us about the functioning and work of the European Parliament, nor what better or worse would bring entry into the European Union; their whole discussion was that our delegation was convinced that we should accept Kosovo's independence, that this was a done deal, that we were not turning back and looking at them alone. That's all we've been doing there for two days. What do we get from them? Did we get any credit we could use? It says here that special items in the Republic of Serbia budget will be projects that we will finance, and the European Union will provide us with a bank, provide us with what we are going to do, provide us with contractors, the conditions under which we will raise credit, and we will just laugh and pay. Lead Serbia to one of the most common vassal positions. You cannot build any policy of Serbia's perspective, Serbia's integration until you settle the situation in the economy and economy, until you solve problems with organised crime. One more thing, from one country, I can't say that I love her, far from that, she started all this happening on the territory of the former SFRY, we need to learn how to enter the European Union, how to reorganize, how to move to the market economy, how to learn from her how much they respected the European Union. When they reached the standard and gross product and everything else, they said not to worry about the European Union directives - gentlemen, we have in our own way reached the standards that you have set, will you come with us or won't you? Bring Serbia into that position, bring it into that situation, and then let's ask ourselves whether or not we will. This way, with this economy, the entry will only increase the number of unemployed, contribute to the destruction and this little economy that we have, to the closure of existing factories; we will serve as a raw material base that our natural resources and material wealth are also used as a market. We'll be in charge of new loans so we can spend their goods. We are led by the Democratic Party, led by the Liberal Democratic Party, led by Boris Tadic, led by Cedomir Jovanovic and Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14296	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. 3 amendments were submitted to Article 5 by MP Vlado Sekulic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic. Here you go, Mr. Sekuli.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Section 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.5 and Function 110, I have submitted an amendment to delete that member and the division. It's something that literally extends through all these laws that we have, that you've adopted. We have fought to show it on the other hand, that everything is not so beautiful in that European Union, that it is obviously not the European Union and that it is unrequited love from their side towards you. According to official statements by the European Union, requests for entry into EU membership have been possible since 2012. By doing so, the state itself is increasing the costs of the state administration without delay at this time. In order for citizens to know how much it costs, to know that only since 2012 will they be able to think about joining us at all, which does not mean that it will be 2012, it can be 2020... Simply, if we don't meet some conditions, they won't accept us. Although I don't see why we keep running and trying to get into the European Union, and we get nothing. The only thing we get out of this European Union is unemployment in Serbia, large loans that are constantly being paid off; more and more Serbia is falling, privatisations being carried out are also influenced by external factors, where everything is at the expense of Serbian businesses and companies. But in order for the citizens to know, my amendment refers specifically to the Office for Joining the European Union. I submitted the amendment to the next chronological trail of things and my colleague Dejan Mirovic's amendment, which said that the Office for Joining the European Union is deleting, that the title is changed and said - the Office for Joining Eastern European, All-Slovenian and Orthodox countries. It's literally a trail of stuff. If Mr. Dejan Mirovic asked for this, he has a good reason for all this. So, I've just continued to follow up on things that should literally erase this and there's no need to single out 78,947,000 for the Office for Joining the European Union. In particular, if we look at our accession, we are aware of ourselves, this budget is proof that because of these aspirations to join us, we started with 14.8 billion deficits. This budget is too big for our gross social product. You're acting, Mr. Minister, if you're in charge of this budget, as if we're a country that has an extremely good gross social product, as if production is booming with us, as if we really have conditions to attract maximum value. We all know what kind of situation we're in. Your argument is that you will replace this deficit in the budget primarily from privatisation. So, the sale continues; now the question at which the prices have been sold to our companies and how the one that is about to be sold will pass. The deficit is really going to fall on the burden of privatisation, anyway, we're paying back debts from foreign banks under unfavourable loans, and that's pretty much 2001. When we look at what's worrying, and I say it applies to this, it's that five billion is the responsibility of individuals. Physical people are in debt to banks for lack of money, because they don't have the financial resources to pay their bills, to educate their children. They're not taking loans from the whim, they're taking credits to survive and to create their own and their own family existence. Here is how the state and this government treats Serbian citizens and separates 78,947,000 dinars for the Office for Joining the European Union. What are the results of this office's work, what has helped us to be closer to the European Union? We are further and further away from the European Union even though you have forced your coalition partners to vote in favour of unfavourable agreements such as CEFTA, or the tobacco industry law, anything that goes to harm our economy. Here are the separate money and the only ones benefiting from this European Union Association Office are the ones who are employed in that office. Those who work in that office have good salaries, I see they have constant expenses here, travel expenses; ten million on travel expenses. Where are they going, going to the European Union, or where are they going to make a deal? We never got the report. When will the public get to know the report on the work of the European Union's Association Office, let's see who's representing us, what's been brought in, what's better done, where are we right now? We have materials, taxes, machines and equipment, contract favors. Services under contract are 24 million. If this office is so professional, then why should services be paid by contract? Is that proof that these people who work there are unprofessional, that they don't have professional personnel, so they have to use the services of some external firm, consulting agencies, to pay someone? This raises the question of whether they are doing it for the sake of order and paying someone on the side, some of your key people, some of the companies that are giving you professional help. Serbian citizens from the EU's Association Office have nothing. All they have is damage, because they're deprived of their salaries into the $78 million budget. I will come back and show why this idea is better to erase all of this and to establish an office for joining Eastern European, all-Slovenian and Orthodox countries. Not only is it defined here, and geographically and religiously, the concept of association and everything else, but anyone who knows this area a little bit better knows that we have the biggest traffic with Russia. Our economy has fallen to low branches and we have the biggest deficit with Russia is not because our friendly and brotherly country Russia wants to exploit Serbia, but because our economy is so bad that there is no counter-slave to reduce that deficit in foreign trade. We are aware of all the investments the Russians invest and how much power from Russia's economic resources. We'd be much better off turning to the Russian market, being honest and looking at the indicators. Only the Moscow market if we were to cover... Otherwise, Moscow with Podmoskovlje, as they define it, has 10 million inhabitants. If our economy literally worked for Moscow, for the Moscow market, we couldn't achieve it. We are particularly interested in the Russian market in the part of food and agriculture. It's something we could export. Otherwise, in Russia, our goods continue to be put first in quality, as Russian customers trust Serbia's products the most. With this agreement of yours, CEFTA, and everything else, you would now like Croatian goods and Slovenian goods to pass through transit to Russia, that was the main idea, under the cover that it is not known to be a product from Serbia. If you look at how much the Russian market respects both the quality prices of Slovenian and Croatian and our goods, it is a drastically large difference; our goods are firstly, very important, not only in the area we have with the Russians, in the diet, our exporting drugs is a great possibility. Another problem is that you companies that have been perhaps the strongest in Europe so far, for example, Galenika, which you are preparing for privatisation... And then I explained to your people, and I called him the Minister, and he's the Deputy Prime Minister... I explained to Mr. Djelic that if we want to talk, I know the Galenika much better than he does, for 23 years I've worked there, I know all people, honest, valuable. I said the female population is the most valuable. We've been exporting to Russia all the time. And, I stand by my statements, I did not say that Galenika would transfer to Turkey, but that the drives would be transferred to Portugal and Turkey. When we transfer the department to Portugal and Turkey, then we ask the question of whose medicines, by which criteria, what quality, to import from abroad. Our products are now the best; our market and the Russian market trusts our products in health and medicine. I could tell you a lot more and explain why this is good. The shortest I could explain is that. If we lift the EU Association Office, we will reduce 78,947,000 inflows. You have rejected my amendment, as well as my colleague Dejan Mirovic's amendment. In the government's explanation, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the EU Association Office, as a government expert service, is established by the Regulation establishing the EU Association Office (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), no. 75/05, 63/06 and 65/06) and thus this service is a budgetary user whose work is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If something has not produced results and has no results, nor do we benefit as Serbia, you will always indicate that they must be given funds from the budget and that it is by law. You must always give them certain funds from the budget. This is obviously something that is bad, which has no results; it should simply be rejected and you will save money for the taxpayers of Serbia. Second, you said yourself that they were professional services. When they're so professional, why do you pay this kind of service by contract? If you're paying someone for services by contract, some other natural or legal person, you're here in a college with yourself. If it's so professional, then why didn't they do it themselves? I would just like to continue with this work and the European Union and specifically ask Mr. Minister – what do Serbian citizens have from this Office for Joining the European Union? What do Serbian citizens have specifically from the European Union? A nice story you're packing, a propaganda story for the election. Serbia has nothing from the European Union, nor does the European Union want Serbia. The European Union wants us to be an ordinary colony, where it is the cheapest workforce; we will be a virtually raw base; we will enter into a debt crisis because of these enormous duties and then we will be a raw base; something small will be exploited because of the low labour price and it will be the most favourable for everything else we do. This office is benefiting only from employees, you from the DSS and your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14298	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. On Article 5, 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Milic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. 3 amendments were submitted to Article 5 by MP Milan Nikolic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14299	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of Section 3 relating to the 110th Office of the Co-ordination Body of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. The amendment proposes an increase in funds in the economic qualification of 463 from 310 million to 650, i.e. an increase of 340 million. The amendment was not accepted by reason that the allocation for these purposes would be greater by as much as 124% compared to the 2007 budget for these purposes. It is also said that the execution of expenditure in 2007 was not carried out as planned. I would like to remind myself that the 2006 budget for the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja Co-ordination Body for the municipalities was set for 650 million, and that the 2007 budget cut that amount and did not exactly correct this percentage by 124% more. I just want to remind you that it is one of the most underdeveloped areas in Serbia. I'll list just a few of these economic indicators. If we take the number of employees per 1,000 people (the figures are from 2005, nothing important has changed), in Serbia 1278 was average employed, in Bujanovac 165 workers. National income per capita in Serbia in 2005 was 123,473 thousand, in Bujanovac 34,313 or the national income level compared to the average in Serbia is 27.8%. On many occasions and in a particular policy, there is very often talk about the need for a uniform regional development of the Republic of Serbia. However, in concrete actions I do not see results and that in this year, either through the funding of the National Investment Plan, through other means... Because the inflow of CHF funds, the UNHCR is slowly ending and then we don't see a way to solve many of the problems that exist in this area. No new jobs, no infrastructure, people moving out. We have local communities or villages where people can't properly bury their dead because they don't have the conditions to secure roads to where they should be buried. I think this is a serious problem. I understand the minister's argument, but they are insufficient and there is no solution to the problem. Special measures must be taken, especially for these regions, burdened with many other problems, to be on the agenda and to solve problems as soon as possible. Immigrants are present; Serbs are mass evicted, the Cypriot population is evicted, but family parts, Serbs are selling houses, and they are no longer returning to the area. I think the situation is quite alarming and that we should take concrete measures regarding development, first of all, infrastructure, but also the opening of new jobs, so that we can keep the population in those areas, otherwise we'll have a situation to keep that space empty, and it's a very thorny area. In voting day, please consider my proposal and vote in favour of my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14300	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14301	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Albianic, I must thank you for the opportunity you've given us to use this opportunity to respond to this amendment. Amendment submitted by MP Nenad Milic to Article 5. The bill reads – in Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.6 is amended as number 14.993,000. The amendment was rejected with one general finding, which is in accordance with the law, that this increase in expenditure did not cover an item where the amount would be reduced. The point is, this is about the Anti-Corruption Council. Whatever was written here and whoever was respected, of course this amendment wouldn't have passed. Like all of you, I've seen that the only amendment has passed by the MPs, which is pure demagogy, but we're not going to talk about it this time. I wanted to say that the bottom line is that we've heard today that the Council for the fight against corruption is the body established by the government, which is responsible for fighting corruption, above all within this system. The other day I noted that we received a letter from the European Commission that he was familiar with, I suppose, and Minister Cvetkovic, I know that Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic is familiar with this letter from the European Commission, that we cannot expect foreign investment due to a very high degree of corruption in the very system of monopolies. We get into a situation where we're making a budget and, Malten, the only division that's getting smaller money than last year, that's the Anti-Corruption Council. I believe that it tells citizens a lot, since we know that there was no will in this assembly to set up a polling committee for a monopoly by a company. Also, some who supported the company at the same time threatened the Anti-Corruption Council that it would be shut down and replaced by other authorities. We heard about the amendments today, counterpart Batic noted that it was true that the Anti-Corruption Council sought these funds for the simple reason that it had previously received a letter from the ministry that they could not ask for more and that these were the only funds to be allocated to them. They're on their own before, which is why they need more resources, and it's completely unwarranted that the only one who's got less money... I think the Administration for Supporting Institutional Sanctions received less money than last year; so did the Anti-Corruption Council. Mr. Cvetkovic, I know it's not your idea, but I think it's completely inappropriate that in a situation where we stand up... One of the basic six principles put forward here by Prime Minister Kostunica was the fight against corruption. Today, when votes are due, or these days, for the budget, we are witnessing that the Anti-Corruption Council has received less money than last year. Were they doing a bad job or is there no corruption in this country? I would ask you, if there is any possibility, to reconsider this advice and to provide resources that will be able to do their job even better. You also gave the State Auditing Institution less money than they asked for. So all those who need to be in control in this country, so that corruption control, so control how budgets are spent, that's the State Auditing Institution, they get less funds than they've asked for. I believe the MPs here are also aware that something is saying about the character of this government, and I am deeply convinced that the citizens recognize it. It is unfortunate that we are in such a situation that in a country where corruption is so high we are reducing resources to those who have shown great courage in the past, against whom criminal charges are filed, and that we are preventing them from working in the best possible way. Thank you, Mr. Albianic, once again for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14302	Thank you, Mr. Marash. Is anyone else answering for the amendment of MP Milan Nikolic? MP Riza Halimi. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I did last time, I will support the amendment submitted by Mr Nikolic. However, I have an amendment to the same member, but I am taking this opportunity to state the following: The Co-ordination Body did not consult the vice-presidents of the Assembly when putting the Government's proposal together in this year's budget and this budget for the coming year, who are also presidents of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities. If the budget and the part concerning the strict area, these three municipalities covered by the government's programme, it was the turn to consult legitimate representatives of these municipalities and therefore to make a proposal to the Government and present itself to the Assembly. It's not done in June this year, nor now, unfortunately, it's not done. This speaks in favour of complaints heard from this area about the imposed reorganisation of the Coordination Body, during August, about the lack of will to work together with the legitimate representatives of this area to solve life problems. And in 2000 and 2001 it was not such a situation. Remember, we had an invitation that was addressed to political representatives on the ground and to the international community to solve this problem and the crisis that was at the time. We are now acting casually, even the presidents are not important, and the municipal council is not important, but someone from Belgrade dictates it and has a strategy that does not meet the demands and needs of citizens in this area. If this amendment has this legal basis, it is closer to the proposal I have submitted, it would be the turn that this time the Assembly has far more hearing than it was in June this year. This problem is very sensitive. We need to make a valid and serious decision, not build Podokin's villages and just make a fuss about who knows what fantastic means they're targeting this area or that area. We're not able to give public analysis and see what's invested, where it's invested, how much, what are the results, after all. These municipalities are the most underdeveloped. What if the rate of underdevelopment is over 70% again? Let's finally talk about this seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14304	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the finance minister Mr Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14305	Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly address some of the questions and findings that have been made and give some answers and my views. I'm talking about what's been going on all morning, so I might mention something that's already been forgotten. It was found that securities of value represent a new emission and that one who issues securities of value, and is thought of by the state, in fact, printing additional resources, which directly causes the threat of inflation. This finding is incorrect. It's actually the other way around. When the National Bank sells its papers, it does, in fact, to draw liquidity from the market. In fact, it's a mechanism that's the opposite of a new show, because they call it sterilization, and basically they're pulling money from the market, and they're not throwing in new ones. It's one of the main mechanisms for stopping inflation and maintaining the course. When it comes to securities printed by the Republic, which it issues and sells, these are indeed minor quantities, and they basically mean withdrawing funds that may be spent for some purposes, but therefore are not spent by those who bought the paper and thus do not seem inflationary. Secondly, there was a question about payment, whether it was consumption, not consumption, etc. It's a question that's quite professional. I'd like to say, not getting into some detailed explanation, that self-payment of the principal of the loan is not considered part of the regular cost, which those who know can see in the balance sheet, when it comes to the level of individual enterprises, and not just in the balance sheet of government budgets. So interest on debts -- yes, it is the cost, and the payoff itself, or the return of the principal, is not the cost. It was a question of the public debt administration, of the founding obligation, of why it was not established, and of whether we now have some lack of vision of the necessary information regarding the public debt. I would like to say that it is true that there is a law establishing the obligation to set up a public debt administration, but it is also true that this law does not specify the moment when it is necessary to put it into effect, so it is possible to bridge a certain period of time, which is also done in life. In fact, it is that there is a Public Debt Sector within the Treasury and he de facto performs the functions of the Public Debt Administration. Why isn't the administration established? Just for the reasons that were mentioned here. So, the Public Debt Administration, when established, will be a very serious institution, which will deal with a serious business that will include the activities that the Sector is currently dealing with, but also take a step further, since we will slowly appear with the possibility of issuing state papers, low-rises, which may also be coming out across the borders of this country. Therefore, the function of the Public Debt Administration is very serious and it is not possible to form it from zero, but at the moment it is formed within 24 hours it must be fully operational. As a result, it began with the idea that a sector would be formed within the Treasury, which would have the functions of the public debt administration and would be strengthened in another way. Once he's strong enough, he'll transfer to management. This will allow the continuity of work without problems always followed by the institutions you set up, so they have no personnel, no expertise, no equipment, etc. Otherwise, for the sake of information, our plan is approximately that it could be formed in 2009, but for now there is a very serious sector in the vault that does these jobs. Secondly, a question has been raised about the budget itself, and also about the statement I made, which is that our biggest individual obligation is to return citizens to spent old foreign exchange savings. The criticism was why it wasn't explained who was guilty, who wasn't guilty, etc. I just want to say that the budget is not an indictment. So, the budget, as a document, does not investigate who spent it, nor does any qualitative questions move, but the budget reveals one naked fact and I said that naked fact - that in the budget the largest item of our individual debt is paying off the old foreign currency savings to citizens. Is it spent in the right way, irregular, whether it's this one or that one, in the budget, there's no saying. These are things of other analysis, which we can discuss, but certainly not within this agenda point. Furthermore, there was a question about the Public Procurement Administration and, in general, its positions and alleged intentions to strip it of its independent status and to vacuum itself into the Ministry of Finance. I have to say, I'm very sorry that there have been some different views in the public procurement department. However, it is normal that there are different views at the moment when you have an internal discussion. I find it strange and regrettable that at that level these views have now come out in public, instead of taking government positions, and then going public. Therefore, at this point, the government's position is neither taken nor sucked into the ministry, nor will, but talks on the table are too early to conclude or put on either side of the issue. The next question regarding the budget was the definition of 7%, Vojvodina, etc. I mean, when you say the budget, that definition is not good, and when you say 7% of the budget, it's very problematic what it means. In fact, the name of the budget itself, I've already commented on it once, is a name for a single system of state accounts, as you say, let's say, a financial report, when it's done at company level. Now imagine someone telling you it takes 7% to apply to the financial report. Of course, that doesn't mean anything, because that financial report has both income and expenditure and annexes, etc. In a similar way, and the budget has its own income side, it has its own expenditure, it has over the line, it's below the line, it's got credits, it's got guarantees, it's got this, it's got that. There's an explanation. I once joked and said, "How are you going to apply 7% to the text?" This calls for a clearer definition of what the budget is and what this base is practically, because this is not just about the Archduke. There are other items where what is called the budget is considered a basis. At this point, we have a legal void, there's no official document, there's a law that gives a clear definition of what this base is. Respecting that fact, we have put forward a proposal within the framework of the Budgetary System Act, which is on the agenda of this session, and that definition will already appear, and from that definition the corresponding figures, which we have budgeted here, will be derived. We believe that it will, firstly, be unambiguous, and secondly, that the Republic's budget will fully fulfil the obligations of the Constitution that it has towards Vojvodina. Finally, I'd like to look back at the anti-urban missiles, but also another set of things that are systemically similar, although they have nothing to do with missiles. I'd look back this way: I don't know what anti-building missiles are, I've never seen them in my life. If two pieces per place are enough, I don't know. That's what those who plan the budget. Therefore, I have no objection to the changes being made, of course, with the agreement of those who are planning, which are resolution ministers. That's my answer to all the suggestions they're saying, turn it down here this much, and increase here. From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, we trust that the resolution ministers, i.e. those who are in charge as users, have given and agreed on a proposal from the point of view of their priorities and would re-schedul these priorities. Therefore, the amendments to this type which have been rejected have been rejected simply because the consent of the users behind their proposals has not been obtained. If such consent is found to be possible during the debate, it is no problem for these amendments to be accepted. Of course, I'm only talking about those that are within the total budget figure, which must not be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14306	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have to finish, really, in the afternoon, please. Please, the word has the People's MP Jorvanka Tabaković, a replica, and then a National MP, Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14307	Thank you, Mr. Albianic, for the opportunity. I'll be very brief and respect the time of my colleagues. It's just, it wouldn't be right if there was an answer during the break. Mr. Cvetkovic, you've been told, I quote you, I remember well - when you print securities of value it's not much of a cost, because you only have interest as a cost and it's not a show. They taught me in school, in college, and I am not giving up on it, nor is your definition of the Law on Public Debt and the Law on the Budgetary System, where it says, quote the Law on Public Debt Article 2 of point 3: "Lowing is taking credit, i.e. loans and broadcasting of government securities of value for refinance, for deficits" etc. The law on the budgetary system says, "Landing is a loan contract or broadcasting state securities of value." Don't question definitions, which means when you collect free dinar funds and print savings records, it's not a show. The savings records, as records of value, are not, but state records, and in 2007 you printed them worth seven billion (the Official Messenger), 82, 94, 99, 103, 107, 108 and 110), in a total of seven billion, are a kind of money emissions, such as the timely printing of food stamps was a surrogate of money, as they were in their time fuel stamps and are now considered valuable paper. You can't say that sterilizing money is a value paper show. Sterilization is a mandatory reserve, type of sterilization. How much did that show cost to the National Bank and the Government, we have exact figures on it. You can't say that this isn't expensive, it's too high and it's not in its own way to put extra money into circulation, especially when budget users and funds buy securities of value, and that's the most scary thing banks don't do in credit to the economy, but banks do in the safest business, and that's buying government securities of value. It's the biggest damage and expense to this country. You can't justify that, and it's really wrong to question some of the basic monetary and economic categories.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14308	The word has a National MP, Free Maras, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14309	Thank you again, Mr. Albianic, for making it possible for you, Mr. Minister, to have the patience to listen. I really don't think you know what anti-urban rackets look like. I believe you don't even know how much it takes for some veterinary office, how much of a corruption council, etc. That's why we keep saying we need a prime minister here, we need resolution ministers, so let's ask them a question like that. You can keep taking it out that you don't know and that you simply redistributed the funds the way you got it from the ministries. Indeed, bring here the Prime Minister, bring the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Infrastructure. You can't give us answers to some questions. I truly believe that you believe that the minister in charge of the NIP will forward nine billion to the Vojvodina budget. We do not believe, and in particular we do not believe that the resolution ministers, for whom there is no obligation on paper, will forward the funds to the Vojvodina budget. Bring them here so we can talk to them. That's what I wanted to tell you. I really believe you don't know that, but you have to bring someone here who knows how they've determined how funds will be spent in their respective ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14310	Thank you, Mr. Marash. We have reached the amendment of MP Nemanje Sarovic. I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll continue at 3:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14311	Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. On Article 5, 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from MP Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on page 5, our colleague Nemanja Sarovic submitted an amendment requesting that the title "The Office of the Co-ordination Body of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja" be changed and read as "The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia". In fact, the current policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia has not yielded the expected results and improved life conditions and reduced international impatience. One of the reasons for this is that the presidents of the municipalities spent money given by the Republic without respecting the evenness of the development of municipalities, but the only criterion, when spending funds, was the number of voters who voted for them. It would be better to focus these funds on the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, given the current situation in the economy. Namely, Serbia's Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja was formed about December 2000 as a response and response from the government of the Republic of Serbia to an attempt by Albanian separatists on the part of the field to destabilise this part of southern Serbia. That body really made sense to form at the time. The first president of the Co-ordination Body for these three municipalities was Mr Nebojsa Covic. Later, or there is now no purpose for the existence of one of these bodies, and the funds that are intended for it, amounting to 385,160,000 dinars, is much smarter to use in some other way. I'm only going to give you one idea of how it's possible to spend these funds. We, on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, proposed that Minister Slobodan Samardzic form a fund, namely that the Government of the Republic of Serbia form a fund whose purpose would be exclusively the purchase of Serbian country and Serbian property sold in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, that fund would have to have a lot more resources, but also these funds, which are not that big, could be useful for that purpose. It should also be borne in mind that about 310 million dinars of these funds are spent on paying the employees of this body. I'm saying she stopped the need for a body like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14313	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Comrade Halimi, will you talk about the amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14314	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is necessary that I present my position in relation to this argument and the content of this amendment. In June, when the draft budget for 2007 was considered and adopted, a similar amendment was submitted by Mr. Sarovic. I think it's essentially about not knowing the situation on the ground, and it's about not knowing the essence of the Coordination Body and the programs that the two governments adopted in 2001, of course, to solve the crisis that was under control at the time. Of course, the lenses were still a little wider. It was not only the creation of security and a stable situation, but also the economic development of this area, the integration of Albanians into the social and state system and the resolution of a lot of sensitive social and public action problems that Albanians have in the area. In the first three years, there were certain results: multiethnic police, some media results, achieved a number of infrastructure projects. That was commendable, because it didn't invest there for many years at all. There were also the consequences of armed conflicts, that I would not enter into that topic, because I had the opportunity to explain how the conflict occurred then. There's absolutely, as you can always say, a fight takes two to fight and anything. It is not possible to amnesty in this respect the very large mistakes made by the authorities in that area at the time. Anyway, I want to explain that the essence of this amendment doesn't get in the way of the problem being treated here, and as such, it should be rejected. I'll say one more sentence in that sense. The point was, among other things, that these municipalities were able to follow social and economic flows evenly with other municipalities, in which results show that they are not working so far. Bujanovac and Presevo are convincing at the end of the scale of municipalities in our country, according to all economic parameters. It is absolutely unserious that the funds intended to help these areas, to raise the quality of life in these areas, are directed towards the existing Fund, which they are using very badly anyway. Three days ago, I explained that there are three or four companies in Presevo that used mostly, in most cases, those start-up programs, and the only company "Fluidi" received 22 million dinars from the Development Fund. If this means of helping this area, for a special need – and it really is a special need to raise that area, at least to start to stop further lagging, because there is a drastic increase in gaps relative to the level that corresponds to the average of the state, it is a lagging of some 14-15 times more than the most developed municipalities – if we focus this on the Development Fund, taking into account the ability to compete and the municipalities and individuals, it will mean that we have condemned this area to remain undeveloped forever and there is no chance of including it in the course of development in the country and in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14315	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. On Article 5, 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14316	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment of counterpart Jadranka Vukovic predicts that the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia by 1991 is deleted from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens no longer have the obligation to finance this office, the so-called National Council Office. We believe that Serbian citizens should not meet the requirements of Carla del Ponte on their own cost, because this office is absolutely in the service of The Hague prosecution, so far Carla del Ponte, such as in the service of The Hague Prosecutor's Office and this so-called Special Court and Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes. The government predicted a total of 53,404,000 dinars were spent on this office. Here we have 9,288,000 for salaries, 1,672,000 for social contributions to the employer's burden, social contributions to employees - 300,000, remuneration for employees - 200,000, fixed costs - 1,000, travel costs - 3,500,000 dinars. Now, this is a question -- what is meant by these travel costs, by whom all the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by whom all citizens of the Republic of Serbia finance through this National Council office? Have you from the Government, or the National Council Office, also funded the Hague investigators who were still doing this? Have you funded the arrivals and Carla del Ponte, and Christine Dahl and all those villains who come to intimidate the citizens of Serbia, to try in every way possible to find false witnesses against Dr Vojislav Seselj? These days, it has been current and months ago; I will remind the Serbian public, above all, that a team that is helping to prepare Dr Vojislav Seselj's defence has come up with data that UN tribunal investigators have tried to come up with false witnesses against Vojislav Seselj in various ways. There were also blackmail and money offerings, offerings of emigration, protection and resettlement to third countries, protection of families, etc. All of which, of course, required considerable costs. We are sure that Serbian citizens would not accept the funding of this type of work by Hague investigators and those in Serbia who are at their disposal and who help them find these false witnesses. A team helping to prepare the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj has come up with data and we have 34 certified statements by the people and citizens of Serbia, which the UN tribunal has tried in various ways to "convince", namely to force them to be false witnesses against Dr Vojislav Seselj. As a result, Dr Vojislav Seselj filed a criminal complaint against The Hague prosecutor's office and, of course, received an unambiguous response that he would only be discussed after the Hague trial against Dr Vojislav Seselj was completed. We are, of course, convinced that this process will not last long either, although it was five years before the trial of Vojislav Seselj and those five years never make up for anything because the court did not, so-called. The Hague court respected the principle of efficiency in the case against our president. When Vojislav Seselj published his book on the instrumentalisation of false Hague witnesses to Serbia, he personally came to Kristina Dahl and tried, along with this Vuckovic and his deputies, it is this so-called. Special Prosecutor for War Crimes, to get to those people again and convince them to show up, to take pictures; they even led B92 to Mali Zvornik to find people they talked to earlier, to convince them they had to come and testify against Vojislav Seselj. Why am I saying all this? Because the state of Serbia has taken a very bad position when it comes to the so-called Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. I'm saying so-called. Because the authorities in Serbia do not co-operate with The Hague tribunal, but they meet the requirements and requirements, above all, Carla del Ponte. You know, there's a rumor in Belgrade that you've been taking Carla del Ponte to some fancy restaurants for some exclusive dinners and lunches, so I'm asking you if it's also paid from the budget, whether it's paid by the citizens of Serbia and if you've asked the citizens of Serbia if they want their money to worship quails, and I don't know what other savages, Carla del Ponte. We are sure that the citizens of Serbia do not want it, and we represent the citizens of Serbia here, and that is why we have proposed this amendment. counterpart Jadranko Vukovic explained that the government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of setting up an office to help defend a person who corresponds to The Hague tribunal, envisions funds in the budget to be spent on meeting Carla del Ponte's demands. You know, and we talk very often about how the state authorities of Serbia treat the citizens of Serbia who are trapped in The Hague tribunal. You heard here the other day an honest one, I'd say an earthquake, a discussion by Mr. Bozidar Delic, who almost came from The Hague tribunal where he appeared as a witness to the defence. He said that whenever he goes to The Hague, the tribunal gets the impression that all citizens who are in The Hague tribunal have a state, except Serbian citizens, because all of them there, their state cares for everyone else, and the Serbian state is only concerned that they are trying to find those that The Hague tribunal has not yet found, threatens to arrest, threaten the families of the Hague indictees, threatens their friends. You remember there's also a criminal case against the so-called. They are the people that the local authorities have estimated to have helped Ratko Mladic in hiding. There was even a tragic case; almost, about a month and a half ago, a woman whose son was being harassed and detained died of all this harassment. These people were without any legal basis here in custody, there's still a criminal case against them. We had a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia in that last meeting, which I very often called "Minister of Stewardes", who flew at the Belgrade-Hag route and led there those who allegedly surrendered to the government of the Republic of Serbia to hand them over to The Hague tribunal. I remind you, let's say, of that general who was taken directly from the hospital, who was in such a hurry to forget to wear his glasses, so, imagine, he went to the pajamas in The Hague. Or this latest lie about the arrest of General Tolimir, which authorities in Serbia claim to have arrested in Republika Srpska's territory, and it is certainly known that he was arrested in an apartment he lived in on the Bezanskih hair. In addition, General Tolimir persistently repeats before The Hague tribunal that he is arrested in Serbia, but of course no one from Serbia wants to say such a thing, I mean official authorities, because you do not want to do anything for any Serbian citizen, you want to court those who are trying to destroy the Republic of Serbia in every way possible. I'll also tell you from experience, when it comes to the National Council Office and team co-operation that helps defend Dr. Vojislav Seselj with that office, that we've had quite a bad experience. It happened that Dr Vojislav Seselj received some material in The Hague and we learn that this material was delivered by the office, say, half a year before we received it, on our request, even though the representatives of the office should know that at the same time that certain documents were delivered to The Hague tribunal by the same documents of delivery and teams for the defence of Hague indictees. It wasn't working that way, it's not working today either. Since the state of Serbia has not shown at any point its desire and intention to protect its citizens, we believe that this amendment should be adopted, that the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal should not exist because it does not exist in that right sense in the words that it should exist and that it is expected to exist. Since this office, like the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Branch of the District Court of War Crimes, meets only the requirements of the UN tribunal and Carla del Ponte, we suggest that you give this 53,404,000, as long as you've provided for this office, to someone who is much more necessary, to give to farmers, to educators, to social contributions. There are many hungry and thirsty in Serbia, and I'm sure that when they hear these facts, how much money they have to give to get a gentleman from the government of the Republic of Serbia to have dinner with Carla del Ponte. So, since they work for Carla del Ponte anyway, let her pay them, let Soros pay them, as Natasha Kandic pays. She admitted herself a few days ago, when she couldn't avoid the answer to Mr. Alexander Vukic's question that Soros was getting $230,000 a year from Soros. I'm sure it's much less than the actual amount. But we also know about the case when Natasa Kandic was in '99. For years, she defended the Shiparas, organised their defenses; these were those that were later released by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorities, and were convicted as terrorists. At that time, Natasa Kandic organised their defenses and raised millions of dollars in America. Of those million dollars, she gave about 50,000 to lawyers in Belgrade, probably as much to the lawyers of Shiptars, and kept the rest to herself. So, I spoke very quickly because time is limited to these 15 minutes, and on this topic you could really talk a lot. I therefore recommend that you adopt this amendment, that you do not insult the citizens of Serbia. I repeat, dear citizens of Serbia, you see what the government of the Republic of Serbia is spending your resources on at a time when most of you, unfortunately, have nothing to eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14317	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14318	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, counterpart Petar Jojic has submitted an amendment to Article 5 of section 3, chapter 3.12, function 410 to wipe out, in fact, the division that defines the function and costs of the Office for the National Investment Plan. We are not only expressing our political position that it is entirely unsustainable and unnecessary for each government to change the organisation of the work of the ministries in terms of the number of ministries, but we also want this amendment to indicate that, in fact, public funds are used by such legal solutions for private purposes. So, two reasons led us to submit a amendment like this and I'll explain it. However, what the Government has written in its reply to explain the refusal of this amendment only partially corresponds to the truth. In her reply, the Government wrote that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Office for the NIP was established by the Office for the National Investment Plan and in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System, which is why the beneficiary of the budget funds for which funding is provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and then will defend ourselves here that we have new budget beneficiaries who have acquired rights that we cannot abolish. This is exactly what I'm talking about -- that it's the defense of a government that isn't really, but it's her indictment. As long as you're setting up new budget users to provide offices with all the accompanying costs, staff, all the infrastructure that monitors it, you can't defend yourself by thinking about good people and your savings. Nothing in this sense means a percentage less participation of public consumption in the overall social product. I've expressed my infidelity to the value of a social product before. What you're saying is that the budget is not an indictment is not true, Mr. Minister. As a politician, it is my duty to say that the budget, as I said, cannot be defended by the obligations you consciously took over as a government, which is to pay for your old foreign savings. The finance minister is a professional person, but he is also a politician and belongs to one of the parties who has taken the obligation to examine where the money is, whether they are spent, with whom they are and to return it, and one of the budgets was the indictment. One of the budgets after 2001 was a direct indictment of a sentence which you and I as economists call the classification of the revenue side of the budget, for example. extraprofit. How else would you explain this than a budget-defined indictment when you predict money that will be collected from extraprofits? Normally, this item was not realised not because the law was unconstitutional, but because instead of the extraprofit charge, there was speculation with those who were supposed to pay it, so it is precisely the definition of this article that I'm talking about, which is the abuse of public funds for private purposes. So, the government, this one or she passed, can't go out with a strategy to fight corruption and a budget saving strategy without having solutions like this. So, the National Investment Plan was also implemented in the last government, without an office. Each of the ministries monitored, collected projects, etc. as part of its responsibility for certain projects. So, the formation of this office by means of a regulation tells you to spread unwarranted state bureaucracy and to allow these solutions that one man wonders about worshiping him, that in his good mood or when his subjects are good enough and obedient, and it is known how to pray to those who decide about you, he will decide how to share state money. So, in 2004, you started with a certain anti-corruption strategy, defining places where it is possible and defining carriers that could execute it, it doesn't mean anything to citizens if concrete solutions to the budget law are like this. Why am I saying it doesn't mean anything? I have proof. So, all the time we're talking about protecting property rights, fighting corruption, and then we have a situation to give us, for example. At Traveller's, an audit scandal in the assessment and audit of assets completely devalues all the story of the audit. We've got a double-crossing down on shares of new shows, the Jugormedia case, you know how it ended. We have transactions related to parties and abuses of official positions, a case of the National Savings Bank. So how did people in power with those in power and around them lead to the abuse of public funds for private purposes. We also have procedures where insolvency, or bankruptcy, has served to manipulate and cheat the ages in our country, is called "Sartid". He's been in some pre-examination stores for seven years now. I'm talking about the governmental decoupling of independent institutions. I'm talking about the Securities Commission. I'm talking about "Knjiza Milos" and so on. So that's how the government that at the time was bringing in a strategy to fight corruption fought for something completely different. I wonder, Mr. Minister, if you are familiar with the dictionary of what people would simply say about abuse and theft - the deceitful actions of reducing the value, the transactions of the related parties at the National Savings Bank, the insolvency procedure suitable for manipulation. I expect my words to gain weight when I tell you who is the author of these names for Serbian words of theft and robbery – the Jefferson Institute and the Ministry of Finance. I believe that as a minister, they first gave you this publication, and if they didn't, that's what I'm going to do to see the government in the inside fighting against the abuse of public funds for private purposes. Then, in order to satisfy the coalition capacity, that is to say, to enable the coalition government to settle with a sufficient number of leading functions, Mr. Gilas, as someone who has regained consciousness at the head of the National Office, qualified to be next to the register. Mr. Djelic didn't want to be put next to the register because he turned out to be selfish. He misused the public function for personal purposes, and Mr. Gilas showed that he can take it, but he can and can share it, that he can give it a little bit to the people. It is our duty, and it is my duty to say that one who gives little to the people can't have their eyes stained by the Budget Law to abuse people's money by putting together a sum of funds for both Vojvodina and everyone else in the division of the National Office, and then, depending on how good or kind it is, according to the political party it belongs to, so will be approved projects and resources. So, it's not just a matter of spending budgets on forming something that wasn't necessary, that job could have been done within all ministries, but it's about making a god who decides from one man and people's money. It's all in the same regulation, number 50 since June 1st, 2007, where the office is established, where... There is no colleagues of Vujadinovic to introduce him to monetary amounts called the red carpet, to let him read the Regulation, because he doesn't know it, and he would have to know, because ignorance of the law doesn't justify it. In that Regulation, the Office was established, which was only mentioned in the Budgetary System Act in one single definition, point 37, where it says that the funds achieved in the privatisation process from credits and other sources are allocated to investments that promote employment, modernisation of infrastructure, further acceleration of economic development, more uniform regional development and contribute to improving population standards and for other purposes identified by the plan. The only letter of the law, I insist - the law, which mentions the National Investment Plan is the definition in the Budgetary System Act. Everything else is a regulation. The regulation on the formation of the Office for the NIP, a regulation establishing the Council so that Gilas would not share himself, a regulation that you bring the principle of double key that he cannot share alone, but that he can be controlled by another minister and, worst of all, the rule on how to allocate money, or the criteria for distribution. They repeat a thousand times, no one on behalf of the state by means of a regulation, meaning the government in the immediate circle, to set criteria for the distribution of national money, the one in privatisation, donations, loans or regular funds. So, the subsidy law and this kind of giving must exist, so that everyone who could compete knows what they're going to face. The principle that Mr Dinkic, in a regulation that has been changed in the same "officer" and is thought of by the Regulation on the conditions and way of attracting direct investment, has changed, and has again maintained his right to ask himself, earlier as finance minister, and now as Minister of Industry and Privatisation, is allowing, for example, six businesses, six companies, of which say, some domestic, some foreign ones, which have received 2000 - 10,000 euros per job for allegedly new employment. When will new employment be? So we'll see about that. So you're talking to one another, you're working the other. You're talking about fighting corruption, and you're left with dirty leads and files for court proceedings. At least on the budget, you have the opportunity to shed light on the face and what you publicly advocate and apply directly, i.e. to prevent Mr. Gilas from misusing public funds for private purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14319	On Article 5, section 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14320	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will take the opportunity to first read this division relating to the Office of the NIP, in fact to explain the essence of my amendment. So this is a division relating to the NIP office, the economic classification of 551, and it says: "non-financial assets financed from the funding for the realisation of the National Investment Plan worth 18,800,000 dinars. Some of the assets of this 9 billion dinar appraisal are intended to transfer the AP Vojvodina budget to the AP Vojvodina territory and the amount of 9,800,000 dinars for other NIP projects. The schedule and use of the funds of this appraisal will take place under a special government act. "My amendment provides for something different for this economic classification within this section. Therefore, Article 5 of that division is amended and reads: "The non-financial assets financed from NIP realisation funds are intended to transfer the AP Vojvodina budget to the NIP on the territory of AP Vojvodina of 18 billion and 800 million dinars. "In order not to be mistranslated, neither I nor the LDP parliamentary group, of course, is the essence of all the money being poured over by Vojvodina, it is the essence of being the legislator of this law, and I have to repeat it for who knows which time, skillfully tried to hide certain funds that should be rerouted both to the AP Vojvodina and to those to whom the NIP funds should be pooled. In other sections relating to certain ministries, however, there is an economic classification of 551, but unlike last year, I repeat, there is no work relating to the NIP for the territory of Vojvodina. That's why I was inspired to write such an amendment, to simply know the funds that go to the AP Vojvodina budget. We have seen here that some ministries, such as the Ministry of Infrastructure, then for economic development, Dinkic's ministry, have about 6 billion, with Velja Ilic, also about 6 billion for the NIP, however, there is not a decided indication of how these funds will be directed, or does not say that one part goes to Vojvodina. In an informal conversation, that is, in an interview with the Finance Committee, Minister Cvetkovic said that these funds will go to Vojvodina, but it does not say anything. Teached by this year's experience in the budget, what doesn't say will never happen. That's why I've made such an amendment that all 18 billion and 800 million in this division are clearly defined to go to the AP Vojvodina. Once again, I don't know if the MPs who have read all this have noticed it's one thing that's different, but I think it's essential, which is – the schedule and use of the means of this appraisal will take place under a special act of government. I threw it out by submitting my amendment, for the simple reason why I again underline, this year's experience teaches us that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's government and the ministers who are tasked with deploying funds to the AP Vojvodina budget did not do so in time and will not meet their constitutional obligation this year to 7% of Serbia's total budget to the AP Vojvodina budget. We have repeatedly talked here about the budget, that is, while we were making our remarks, tried to point out that the proposal for this law by the government was very skillfully formulated. I'm really interested, Minister, in that I haven't been able to hear all these days, which is what inspired you that in this year's draft budget under paragraph 551 of the different ministries, it doesn't stand for the NIP to go to Vojvodina. What is it that changed compared to the budget we adopted in June of 2007 to drastically define you to change the way you will transfer funds to Vojvodina? I think we MPs deserve to hear that, and I think the people of Vojvodina should know that, too, because the "Vojvodina can't wait" campaign has started again, but I'm afraid they'll be waiting for these couples, so what did that define that we don't have certain resolutions under economic classification 551 especially NIP for Vojvodina? So we need to know exactly what these are funds that will be transferred to Vojvodina, which will be poured into the AP Vojvodina budget. I came from that, and you mentioned it before, or before the break, what's below, and what's above the line, and what's the budget, and now we're going to have this in the budget system law, so the budget definition. I went from being below the line and above the budget line, so 730 billion. Of that 50 billion should go to Vojvodina. We don't have those funds defined, we have 9 billion defined in the NIP, we have a share relating to salaries for employees of education and wages in culture. So the rest, and that's over 20 billion, we don't see where they are. We don't see how it's going to be transferred to the AP Vojvodina budget. I fully agree with the previous speaker, Mrs Tabakovic, who said that in this way and with these means given into the hands of one man, the minister who is in charge of this office, or for the implementation of the NIP, is making him some sort of... And I truly believe that all those who address for NIP funds, and especially those who are in the executive power within Vojvodina, will have a very difficult job if the government in Vojvodina changes. So if we have this year's regional elections, what happens if the Democratic Party doesn't participate in the executive power? I'm not saying it's certain, but what if something like that happens? What happens if whoever is in charge of implementing the National Investment Plan, or the Office for the NIP, and is a member of the Democratic Party, needs all the same things that are envisaged here, that is, all those funds to send to the AP Vojvodina budget? I'm afraid there's going to be a problem, as did last year, before you moved to that chair, when certain funds were supposed to come from the Ministry of Finance to be transferred to Vojvodina. While the minister was Mr. Mladjan Dinkic we had major problems, large funds never arrived in Vojvodina just because the finance minister or the minister of infrastructure came from different political parties compared to the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council or individual secretaries. That is why I think it is necessary, and in many places I have submitted amendments, both in Article 4 and later in Article 16 and in this Article of this Section 5, to highlight what the funds go to Vojvodina. I find this nine billion here insufficient, because it's the only amount of funds that are decidently seen going to Vojvodina, and everything else is skillfully hidden, skillfully inkling, and there I have to confess to those who have made this bill. Many things are not seen clearly and transparently, as should be seen. That is why I call on you to accept this amendment or to decidate in the context of some other amendments what funds are going towards the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14321	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I thank you. On Article 5 of Section 3, 9, 23 and 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Marton. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14322	Social Democrats' League MPs have tabled a number of amendments to the 2008 draft budget law. When we explained our amendments earlier this afternoon, we pointed out that we have no intention of pointing to anything bad and what needs to be corrected in the bill. We, in principle, pointed out that we will vote against the Bill of Budgets for 2008, and we have submitted a series of amendments just to point out the guidelines that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Resolute Minister Mr Cvetkovic should insist on, so if our suggestions have not already been accepted, or at least not accepted for now, for this 2008 budget, then the budget for the following year should contain all of our remarks. They reiterate our suggestions that we believe that a lot of resources in this budget are being allocated to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, and that intelligence agencies, secret police or the Military Intelligence Service are getting significantly more resources than they should really get. We believe that the amount of 10 million dinars from military intelligence funds could be rerouted to improve the position of disabled people. We believe that in the past few weeks we have been able to track it in the media, and we all have a lot of knowledge that the position of these people, these endangered social categories in our society, is really very bad. I will repeat the criticisms we made in June of the month, when we also submitted a similar amendment. We think that from the funds of the Ministry of Culture, classification 451, we should direct 160 million dinars for the purpose of opening an institution specialising in treating people with cancer. We, in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, pointed out in June, and these criticisms we point out now, that the money of 160 million dinars cannot be spent solely on individual, selectively selected, informative houses, and above all I mean the Public Enterprise "Tanjag". As you yourself know and see by reading the newspaper or watching the electronic media, there are much more represented services "Bete" and "Foneta". We believe that the selective financing of the Public Enterprise Tanjug, and a lot of high funds are being allocated, good information agencies such as Beta and Fonet, which in our opinion report more realistically to the public, are being put on the other side of the agenda. Then, in the amendment, I proposed that the Commission for the Study of Liability for Human Rights must, as I say, be rewarded in this budget by having one part of the funds taken from the BIA, which I spoke about for a while. I repeat, these ministries, these agencies we call the ministries or agencies of force are being put first, and something that should be very important for this society in the second plan, and even in the third plan. It is very important that I complete the explanation of this amendment, improve the position of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. Truth and punishment of crime is something very important to our society. Let's turn to the future. Once again, the League MPs, whether the ruling coalition MPs support these amendments or not, and I call on them to vote for them, will vote against the 2008 budget law, because we do not believe it creates a quality financial framework in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14323	Thank you, colleague Marton. On the occasion of the amendment, the word has a National MP, Rajko Baralic. Here you go, colleague Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14324	Mr. Judjevich, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS cannot accept this amendment for any number of reasons. We, of course, like other MPs, want to make funds to help people with disabilities, to screening and early detection of severe illnesses tenfold, if possible. But it's not possible to increase those funds, and take them from here where it's proposed by the amendment. In addition, it is impossible for someone to know exactly how much money is needed for the Military Intelligence Agency, since in the context of the amendments, or oral reasoning, it is said that it is much more than necessary. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports the survival of the "Yugoslavi Review", and "Tanjug", and "Film News" and "Radio Yugoslavia". I have expressed this attitude on the Committee on Culture and I will advocate for it and here, along with fellow MPs, for several reasons: "Beta" and "Fonet" are commercial services, "Tanjug" has a different meaning in this country, and as we so assess we will behave, because it is not possible to erase everything that has at some time had some meaning. Dear colleagues, the "Yugoslav Review" is the edition you still get. You can find data in it that you can't get on any website, anywhere else in this country. Not to mention, "The Film News," "Tanjug." We will not easily go over the fact that someone has intended to buy the "Tanjuga" building at the best possible location at Kosančić's wedding in Belgrade. It has nothing to do with this amendment, but I'm paving out the intention of it happening. So in that sense, we cannot support this amendment. In addition, VBA has the same tasks as such or similar agency in any other country in the world and compared to the gross national product it is 10 times smaller than in any other country in the environment. We don't need those agencies, we don't need security services, we're completely open to anyone who wants to come here and do whatever he wants. In this respect, the political interest of the promoter of the SPS amendment cannot in any way support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14325	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Section 3, 13 and 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Stankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Section 3, 14 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borka Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Borka Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14326	Honorable presidency, respected colleagues, no minister, I'm sorry. I wouldn't bother you much by quoting all these divisions. I would just mention that it is Section 3, Chapter 3.12 - Office for the National Investment Plan and Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. I can say on behalf of the SPS that we have been through one serious consideration and verification, through the most professional institutions, universities, institutes, but what the Socialist Party of Serbia could do now is check through young farmers. I have been fortunate that these days, since we've been sitting and considering these amendments, I have had the opportunity to consult in a forum covering a large number of young farmers about this amendment. In simple and simple words, we suggested, based on an interesting conversation where there were many young farmers and based on their experience, that change in the positions of the National Investment Plan and the Ministry covering tourism and development and that the planned agricultural division increases the amount in the budget by 10 billion. I'd like to say, I think it's worth knowing for all of us, these farmers are both producers and voters, and they're nowhere in our bodies. We had only one farmer among our MPs, and now we don't have him; we don't have a representative anywhere on the board for the adoption of the agriculture strategy, so we seem to be important what I got from this conversation attended by a large number of young agricultural producers. The Socialist Party of Serbia has had several gatherings of this kind, as young people appear more and more in its ranks. Within this fund of young farmers, farmers, who are truly serious, have registered households, who have had opportunities to participate, including several cooperatives, have made serious remarks. They say openly -- this year, despite the drought despite everything that's happened, agriculture has exported more than a billion and 700, it's surplus. There are major problems, however, production has not fallen, of course, depending on which segment of agriculture. Starting with those serious remarks, I'd like to list a few. I have to say, based on my 42-year-old life practice in banking, that whenever I took the advice of the peasants, I was never wrong, not in the economy, not in the financials. I'm going to give you an example: one peasant is the first time, it was a long time ago, in 1976, got the biggest loan from the World Bank, worth 56 million dollars for irrigation. When it was all over, the contract was over, the three banks, the jury, the state guarantees, he came in with a pen and said, even though all the banks and TV were represented, the peasant simply asked - who's the boss here, I want to ask what the interest is, because from this contract I don't understand what the interest is. He put on a pen like this and he says, "My playway pies, I don't have a computer, what's the interest?" No one could tell him what a fixed interest was. There was Indus, the boss, who got up and said -- that interest is Prime Rate and plus some difference. Then he reiterated what a Prime Rate was, while explaining to him that the possibility of a creditor was introduced, in which case the World Bank, to charge interest on the basis of that currency that suits him. Then he said - and what currency is that? So there was a discussion and the peasant told him like this - since I took the loan in dollars, you claim that the first war will be in stamps, I must say that my plaiver says - John, John, you don't have to accept this loan. It was my first experience with one peasant, who makes one smart proposal, because after a year, a year and a half, all World Bank loans were even with interest and capital. So, and this proposal that I'm about to make, and the minister is back, I welcome him... At that meeting, I experienced that they followed very closely the presentation of our finance and agriculture minister and taught me this, and they taught me this, you just take it, so tell the minister that within the planned division you suggest that one position be taken, and that another position will be more productive, greater, more effective, and everything will be fine. Why did they suggest that to me? They were very interesting, this young peasant is very interesting, he says like this -- if we don't have the subsidies we're no longer going to achieve what we're expected to do, but we have to tell you that we no longer have opportunities, as registered households, to get more favourable loans, and that's why production is likely to fall on us, even though our forces are still quite significant. We don't even have the opportunity to get the co-financing that is under way with the EU, because it requires some adjustment period, new regulations, new institutes, agencies, etc. And that's where we have to wait. What's more, we don't think it's a political matter. We believe, so the young peasants say, that you should be in the Assembly (for sure now they listen to us, especially me, because they keep asking me about it) already once you realize that we and the voters are quite many voters, and even producers, and we produce food. I think we should listen to this remark, which is really serious and still represents one generation that's tied to the village. I can tell you that in that team of people with whom we had talks, especially through this fund, the proposals were very constructive, and that there was really a way to lose patience in the country. Of course, they resent that they are not in the congregation; if they were in the congregation, they could probably influence more directly. One big grudge from young farmers concerns the possibility of obtaining loans in agriculture through the Serbian Development Fund, as it has moved on to the ministry. In other words, they had great confidence in the Fund, boasted and provided a number of examples that the Fund had made more placements, that it was mostly coming back, but if they do not have the possibility that all loans of other types are very inaccessible, technically, in processing, etc. From the experience of loans through this institution, I have about 26 - 27, I can say that it mostly ends up on a strategic partner. Of the 27 loans, almost none have been completed, but ended only with a strategic partner, which, unfortunately, is not much yet. Our young generation in the country argues that they are in a lot of trouble with the slow stabilisation of the state and that they have other problems related to production and export. Therefore, on behalf of all these voters and those who listen to us today, who have confidence that the minister will help to do more in the context of the planned divisions for those ten billion, as proposed in our amendment... But today I heard the minister who almost answered that question, so I would ask him if I was right, that now the one proposing the amendment should help bring those from whom the funds are being seized. If so, I see no excuse for our young peasants and those who would be beneficiaries of these subsidies... I don't think it would be right. They have a big comment, I would end up with, and they ask -- why the Ministry of Agriculture on its website doesn't publish a list of owners of registered agricultural landowners who have received investment loans from agrarian budget or participation of part of the funds for the acquisition of machinery and other funds. They feel that there are certain problems, related to corruption and the like. Once again, I would like to ask Mr. Minister to commit a little bit to this and that the competent interested parties for the possible use of this type of subsidy shall not allow them to coordinate two or three ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14327	Thank you, Mrs. Wolfie. According to the amendment, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the National Assembly, and then MP Slobodan Maras. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group certainly supports this intention and this excellent amendment submitted by Mrs Borka Vukic. The very fact that she, through an anecdote from her more than successful, brilliant banking career, a woman who cared for her country and her people, has said enough in favour of how much it takes to judge and spend a state pair of healthy peasant logic, you probably need an argument and you don't need it anymore. Who knows how many such examples are today; and she, when she goes all over Serbia, and especially us who are directed to visit our farmers, farmers every day, see what their biggest pain is and what is the key issue – when and whether the state will even care about agriculture in the way it should be treated, as one of the strategic economic branches in our country. It is likely that former Serbian Parliament members remember, for seven years now, how I have been constantly talking about a project done by a group of professors and assistants from the University of Kragujevac Faculty of Economics. The project is called - Growth and structural changes in Serbia's economy with a special focus on structural changes in agriculture, i.e. in the agriculture sector. Anyone who's had a chance to read, it's an experiential reference to what's been happening to us in the area of agriculture for decades, from communist green plans, agrarian reforms, has seen that we as a state are in a situation, and in one part of our reasoning the distinguished Mrs. Vukic wrote, that we don't even care what it is that we can offer the market around the world; we couldn't even, how many potential buyers are interested in healthy food, to produce. How do people who went into a single project called health - food production today cope? You can often see on television, on RTS contributions in the morning program, in various other shows about these lonely Serbian families that came from nothing, as defined for fruit production, vegetables or have slightly larger livestock production, and everyone will tell you -- we are, although we are valuable and diligent... It's good to show on television that agriculture is booming in the country, so when you see the whole family together, three generations, then you can praise the current owners and the minister of agriculture and say -- here, people stay in the country. What's next after that? They say -- we're on our own and no one in the state is going to help us. All last year, almost every month, I visited an expatriate neighborhood with Dr Tatomir Bakovic, a national MP, who comes from a mountain village in Vučina not far from Ivanjica. To ask him, as well as the locals from his village how they lived for fifty-five years when the doctor went to elementary school and what machinery they used, how the state takes care of them today, will tell you - no way. These people, not only from this, but from all the villages of the Ivanic region, are indignant especially because of the fact, they point out that, it is also with me in Šumadia, so in all of Serbia, that the state does not stimulate young people through subsidies, which are not available, because there are no agricultural loans, unambiguous, of course if the state wants to worry about the development of strategic economic branches, those that directly bring profits to one family or to a group of people, if they are organised through such production. And what do they say? What do we serve? We serve to be tormented, to bend our backs to the earth. It is the story of a man from Kusic, a village not far from Ivanjica and is known for the production of potatoes. First of all, the MPs here know that Baralić, a colleague from that neighborhood, were forced to throw their products away last year, and the man says, "I'm 43 years old, I'm a school kid, one kid goes to college, I've got nothing to live on and I'm a slave, I'm a slave, I've got nothing worse to deal with, I don't have any help, I've got to do it myself, but wherever I'm going to apply for a loan... Of course, it was current at the time of the election campaign, when the minister was from G17, so she had a hand and a hat to share non-refundable loans worth 13 million to her associate, who is otherwise a former federal minister and who has abused that money and spent who knows where, and the villagers who suffer have no place to go. Look what Mrs. Wolfie wrote. She said, since it's mostly registered agricultural households... As much as our peasants resisted (I know by their family, by their relatives, brothers from uncles and their wives, their little children living in the country, where my father came from), they eventually had to register. What did the state give them in return? Nothing. Only new accusations and inability to renew their mechanization, which is why they are demoralized. These people who have stayed to work in the country are wondering how they'll be waiting next year. When it came to Serbia that every year it was increasingly hungry for a Serbian peasant, what should we talk about? What they're producing, it's just for simple reproduction. When the National Assembly sessions start and we talk about how the owners spend budget money, let me show you or let you know how many text messages come from different parts. I have one associate, a member of the SRS, from the village of Dobrec near Kragujevac, on the way to Gornji Milanovac; every day a man reports me about a drinking barometer and asks me to ask you - is it normal, Mr. Minister, that he must sell the best and most nutritious pig 80 - 90 dinars at the market today and that it is normal for his wife to go and have such a hard time and sell at that price cheese and cajmack, whether it is worth it. And if I didn't talk about the locals of those villages, I was talking about that, conditionally speaking, to the end of Ivanjica, because you treat him that way, and there's plenty of such places in Serbia, which have no ability to sell the goods they produce around or in their place, so when they calculate those costs, they're forced to give wake up to customers who come, but only to get out, because they're used to working and they're used to making products. So this is more than a rational proposal. If Mrs. Vucic tells you that nine billion go to some of Gilas' projects, the tycoon, that you don't know where it went, if she tells you that a billion go to the ski centres to take pictures of Dinkic and his clicks in the most expensive equipment and that he is showing his slalom and giant slalom skills, then you realize that she, as a woman, is a host, who has spent her entire life working in banking and talking to these people, is very rationally accessing budget spending. If they want 10 billion more to be subsidized through its amendment, they are taken to those who behave arrogantly and spend nothing, there is no trace of it, and that the peasant who needs it, then explain to me what the argument is, Mr. Minister, when you say so - I cannot or recommend to the MPs that in the day of voting they do not vote for Mrs. Borka Vukic's amendment. In this way you will show more and more that you have no good intentions, although you claim to have them both for peasants and for those who need help most. I don't know if you've been following, and I believe that, last year, the SRS campaign, which is why it's a winner, and that's why we won the elections and most of us are here, still not enough to form our own government, but this will happen after the victory of Tom Nikolic on January 20th, so be sure, but if you followed what counterpart Tabakovic is saying when it comes to agriculture and our pledge that the state has to stand behind the agrarian bank, that it has to go from what's most important in the agricultural sector, which immediately brings profits, to finance with such loans, which I was talking about at the beginning, then let your candidate for the president of the state and say something else. It was easy for him to "model" himself and promise everything and everything in the campaign. You can see he's just pushing money into the pocket of his tycoon, Dragan Gilas. Tell them which agricultural producers, whom the farmer has helped for these four years, Boris Tadic. No one. You know what he says, if he didn't help him, he didn't make it, but he did. Both you and the Democratic Party have made it your policy to make people progress, to keep their young generations from staying at home, to be able to do what they do, but to have a concrete profit from it. Besides, what should we talk about? In a country where there is such a strong import lobby, especially when it comes to the agricultural sector, a Serbian peasant has nothing to look for. He was left for mercy and mercy. If local self-government, as is the case in Kikinda, where the government is running the SRS and where President Branislav Blazic has formed a larger agrarian budget and if it has formed a fund, as Dr Blazic has done, to fund farmers, they can also hope for something. This way, to go all over Serbia, to help the peasants are gone, they are left at the mercy of you, to the rulers who do not care for them. If we were to conduct a survey now, Mr. Minister, of you, through this Bozidar Djelic and the other ministers in the government, with only three or four questions -- how much do the groceries that the peasant brings to the market cost, I believe you couldn't give us an answer. Because you live in some irrational world, you have no touch and no contact with these people, you don't know how much their pain is. If you knew, you would take from this tycoon Gilas, from the ski centres and others, in a mild sense, drunk billionaires, it's metaphorically said, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and you would give Serbian peasants who cry for every dinar, because they have no way of knowing what their life, perspective and destiny are any longer for them and their children. I think that next year, in every sense, it will have to be a turning point for Serbia, as well as for the Serbian peasant. As long as the head of the state doesn't get the right host, the man who's from the village and who knows what the peasant torments are... After all, in Bajcetina, a village where the future Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic comes from, I will end up living 22 citizens with the right to vote. The average of their age is 70. Since they do not have a polling post in the village of Bajcetina, they come to the neighbouring municipality of Knic to vote, they come to their tractors, although it is winter, although it is snow. They will do so on January 20th, although they are over 70 years old, although the tractors are old, but they will know the day they vote for their Tom Nikolic, as well as the whole of Šumadija and all of Serbia, that the Serbian peasant will have a man he can believe in and who will return Serbia's agriculture to where it belongs at a time when we have exported quality Serbian cattle to your friends, who blackmail you, and how much profit we have all over Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14329	On the occasion of the amendment, Mrs. Vukic's word has the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the proposed amendment is in one piece fine, and that is to move certain funds towards the Ministry of Agriculture. What I do not like about the amendment is the reduction of funds under the NIP for the AP Vojvodina. Speaking of these funds that are supposed to be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, we remember that last year's explanation, which is why the agriculture budget is smaller than in 2006 was that the Ministry of Agriculture did not spend all the funds. This year's increase, as I recall, is about 5% for 2008. In the amendment that we have proposed, as an LDP parliamentary group, we have gone further than this proposal by Mrs. Vukic, or even greater funds, we have provided for by subsidising agriculture. Of course the position of farmers in this country is very difficult. I don't think it's necessary to tell all the anecdotes that we know who we're going around the field a lot. I wanted to compare this situation in our budget with our neighbours, that is, the Republic of Croatia. Once again, Croatia has twice as many inhabitants as Serbia, Croatia has twice as much arable areas as Serbia, but Croatia has almost 60 million dinars, meaning half a billion euros, a higher agricultural budget than Serbia. How do they subsidise agricultural products within their budget, or what is foreseen by them when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture? For example, for the tail per hectare, the subsidy is 500 euros, for soya per hectare of 200 euros, for wheat and sunflower per hectare of 300 euros, for corn per hectare of 120 euros. Of course, they also die of milk, they die by one hectare, even orchards, etc. We are all witnesses that here the biggest promise that could go to farmers was 100 euros per hectare and we know how it ended. More than 50 - 60% of our farmers have no more than three hectares and have received 300 euros per hectare, and they know best how much and what they can do with those 300 euros. There are even some suggestions that because of the drought that hit us last year, farmers are tax-free. However, it is only 500 or 600 dinars per hectare, and these are really funny funds for one branch dealing with a large part of the population in the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, I must repeat once again that this amendment is meaningful in this respect, which needs to be shifted to the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. for subsidies to our farmers. However, I think it is incorrect to touch it from that section relating to the NIP, i.e. the works related to the AP territory, because in this way it would reduce the funds heading towards the AP Vojvodina, which will not be respected anyway, or will not be respected in Article 184. The Constitution. If the funds that Mrs. Vucic predicted to be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, were removed from the funds under the budget provided for in the counties, and we are all witnesses to surround, however many there are in Serbia, in fact, only a haven for certain political personnel, i.e. personnel from political parties and these districts are definitely no longer serving anything, it is about 430 million dinars. This is not enough for these funds that Mrs. Vucic suggested, but we have another major division, i.e. we have a MUP, or BIA that has received over 3 billion, so we could take some money from there and move it towards agriculture, not just from the NIP, which should literally affect this country in terms of development. One more thing to say, I believe that all those watching the transmission see how much interest it is in the discussion of the budget, or the discussion of the amendments. The fact that a political party celebrates today's birthday and that its MPs are not here... Those who are here from the ruling coalition are probably not invited, but they probably wouldn't be there either. That's what I'm saying in the context of what's really untasteful is that when we have three presidential candidates (Mrs. Kolundji is in this room) in the next election, and we still work in this assembly not in the half-empty room, but more than that, if there are a quarter of the MPs in the Assembly... The best thing would be, and I know it's your best interest, to get the amendment debate done as soon as we can, to adopt the budget, and to slowly part ways, or to go to the campaign. Just because a single party here doesn't have a presidential candidate doesn't mean we have to work until the presidential election is over. That is why I call on you who have more MPs than the LDP to invite your MPs to participate in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14331	On the occasion of the amendment, Mrs. Vukic's word has a National MP, Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14332	A few minutes left after Mrs. Borka Vukic's amendment, which she filed on behalf of the SPS and on her behalf. Mrs. Vucic here has, in a sense, laminated with the NIP concept, which has served in two governments as a good programme and financial basis to run a different-level campaign. So, what Mrs. Vucic said was that the NIP funds foreseen for the AP Vojvodina were taken by 10 million, that is because there was so much money there that it could have been in one amount, and it was a technical fluctuation of the amendments. Otherwise, NIP funds were spent more or less in vain, to turn certain rooms, to promote certain ministers, to promise a lot of promises in the election campaign, and we talked about it earlier. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is basically human, economically justified, it deals with an important issue, which is rural development of Serbia, it deals in an indirect way with demographicism in Serbia and it is possible to give hope in Serbia that every village that is 15 km away from the municipality's headquarters will not die. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, when you travel to Serbia, then you see that the villages have been relaxed for a long time. So this would be an attempt to help in an extremely simple way through high quality means and to save what can still be saved. It was the essence of the amendment, such as the essence of the amendment to give hope to young farmers and that it is possible to survive on the hearth of their father, their grandfather, and to continue, with the help of the state, to deal with one important economic area, which, as you can see, is at peace. Otherwise it will happen if this is a trend over the next few years, that Serbia will buy two-thirds of the food, which is due to the liberalisation of imports of all possible things, and also because of one completely opposite-proportional policy, in this sense that no one here is stimulated to deal with concrete production. There are now 50 farms in the Cačak municipality that are able to start dealing with these heroes at the same time, which are completely empty because people are unable to provide this first, zero tourus with quality state resources. When it is so in Chačka, then I can think that it is in eastern, southern Serbia, as it is in Golia, as it is in the hill-mounted area, as it is where these villages are further away from the city centre and as it is where schools are practically shut down, etc. We watch on TV diaries that there are schools in Serbia where children from plastic buckets drink water or, I don't know, from NIP funds, because of political points, build toilets, etc. So the NIP funds should be embedded in the substance, because what this is about, and what Mrs. Borka Vukic suggested by the amendment is a substance, to return tenfold tomorrow. Otherwise, we'll spend this and the privatisation will be over. So these quality funds will never be again, nor will they be in this range and in this quality. That story will be over in a year, and then we'll be buying everything from Western Europe, the Netherlands, as we buy one half of everything today, from flowers, vegetables, seed goods, etc. Support this amendment, it is a vote for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14333	Thank you. The National MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic submitted amendments to Sections 3, 14 and 17 of the amendments. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14334	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, Ministry representatives, I want to begin by thanking those people who let some fresh air, otherwise it's over 30 degrees inside. I don't see any reason to push us, this is going pretty fast, so you don't have to force us. I don't want to look back on the discussion I had this morning. I would refer to Mr. Secretary's speech and presentation at the very end of the afternoon session. He admitted to us, as far as the Vojvodina is concerned, probably local self-government and some other positions in the budget, that the proposer of this law was running his stomach. So he's banging on his stomach and he's saying, these so much and those so much. Mr. Minister added that the government tried to regulate it through the draft bill on the budget system. He probably meant Article 24 of that bill that repeats everything said in Article 4. The Bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget but explains other public revenues and there are 14 belonging to Vojvodina. For me, it is most interesting, and in that case I will point out what I think about this proposal, sub-point 5) which says that, among other things, the AP Vojvodina budget also includes revenue from the fines imposed in the infringement procedure for the infringements prescribed by the act of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and the disbursed property benefit in that procedure. I am very pleased if the minister and the government already know that Vojvodina will receive legislative authority, so that this is to meet all of this. But I'm afraid not. I think this refers to some of the environmental violations that are being charged on the territory of the Duke's AP, based on the decision of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Don't lie to the devil, when it comes to the penalties imposed by judges for violations and the means to lie down, do you know where they lie? Not to the AP Vojvodina budget, but to the giro-account again, or to the Republic of Serbia's budget, so if it comes -- it comes, if it doesn't come -- it doesn't come. So much, Mr. Minister, about your attempt to regulate this with the draft bill on the budget system. I think this should, as far as Vojvodina, local self-government and many other positions are concerned, be far better and fairer to get rid of. This first part of my amendment certainly did not bear to say, nor could the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina ever say, that some funds do not belong to the Vojvodina. The League and I are against principles, I spoke of him in the morning, in that position the pre-election investment plan, that is, the office for this pre-election investment plan where it is planned, to repeat, 9.8 billion leftovers of the Republic of Serbia, without Vojvodina, and the Vojvodina 9 billion. That's almost 50:50 percent, which I don't say very much, looks like a prank, so that citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina can be told, by some, that there are some of you Vojvodjans, you've been given 50%, whatever else you want. I therefore propose that, indeed, when it comes to these three competences, at least 7% under that Article 184. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, finds ways to systemically resolve this and that we never have problems like this as long as this constitution lasts, and God will give that there will be a much more favourable constitution not only for the AP Vojvodina but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There is an interesting relationship, and I will illustrate it through the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. In this year's proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget, it was proposed to complement the fund with fresh three billion dinars. I have no idea how much money there is in that fund right now, or what it says in the jargon, how much money is spinning. But when someone, does an organization, does an entrepreneur, does an individual, from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, report to this fund for various competitions... We also have official information from the director of this fund, which is on the question "if these funds you have belong to the Vojvodinas" literally said – Vojvodina has its own Development Fund and they need to apply there, but sometimes we have to give it to a Duchess, because, imagine, they are the only ones who are able to return everything they take from this fund. The AP Vojvodina Development Fund is symbolic compared to these funds available at the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. And I, as my colleague Jovanovic said earlier, spent a wonderful afternoon in Baja yesterday afternoon. Why am I telling you this? It's a place near Backa Topola, I'm very glad, because my Backa Topola has been called Kish Baša for many years. First it was Baisha and then it was Buck Topola. I want to introduce you to this place a little bit, because believe it or not, in the second half of the XIX century, in two decades, the Baishans have built three churches, three churches at the same altitude, three churches that have the same height, three churches that have a square meter of the same area, it doesn't matter what order the church is built on. Generally, one prays Catholics, Orthodoxs in the other, are next to one another and divides them 30 meters, and the right of Orthodox is evangelist, which is also not more than 50 meters away. It's interesting that people in that XIX century thought that co-existence was necessary, and we in Vojvodina after about twenty years, after everything we've been through, only now do we learn about tolerance from our young generations, or we have this opportunity. Why do I mention Bisha? In the conversation I had with them, they told me that the rescue for our Baisha and many Bajsa would be three or four entrepreneurs in the entire Republic of Serbia who would employ between 10 and 15 workers, but with high-quality jobs. A quality job is such a job where a man goes away satisfied, smiled in the morning to work and where he is even more satisfied when he counts money in an envelope when the pay comes. If Bajša does not get or all Baja do not get the 50 jobs they need to keep, the picture of Serbia will be as we just heard from her colleague Jovanovic - 70-year-olds in villages and, as she said, twenty-two. Trust me, it'll be a picture. In order for this to happen, the money cannot only be in Belgrade. So the money has to come to the AP Vojvodina and, more importantly, it has to come to local self-government, because it's local self-government that needs to tell who, where, what needs to be done and how to do it. So much for this. The second part of the amendment refers to 4,780,000,000 dinars from the position of subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, i.e. subsidies to the Public Undertaking of Serbia, which is 10.6 billion dinars in the proposed law, being taken down and placed in a position -- subsidies in agriculture, which is foreseen in the amount of 15.220.000,000 dinars, and would then round at least 20 billion dinars. Why did I suggest this? The disaster struck agricultural producers in the Republic of Serbia; it started with the flood, so it continued (I think that my colleague Baralic talked about it today) with the city, the ice and the culmination of everything was, at least as far as we were in northern Backa, drought, catastrophic drought; it reduced the yield by 60% compared to last year's. Some ministers had the courage to recently promise farmers that they would provide even one-time compensation, whether 8,000, would be 10,000 dinars. But these farmers, who have been cheated so many times, have not had the opportunity to look at this budget proposal and see that there is no position in this proposed budget and that no one has any serious intention of paying them off. The crumbs will come back to the farmers. But just so you know, this year we've sown so much wheat that we'll have to have for muffins, and for bread we'll have to import. If it goes on like that, we'll be importing buns in due course. I am pleased to hear that my colleague Jovanovic says that 80-90 dinar pigs are around Kragujevci; I would like to tell them to come to me to the north of Bačka, where whoever gets 70 dinars for a kilo of pigs went extremely well. Welcome, then, to trade; at least to cooperate. As far as the railways are concerned, allow me, Vojvodina had the densest rail network in Europe by 1914, i.e. 8.7 kilometers of railways per 10,000 inhabitants or a total of 2,200 kilometers of railroad. The railway itself has gone through a series of reorganisations in the past and this has led to a very difficult situation. I'm not saying that it's all responsible for the management that is now run by the Public Undertaking of Serbia, but I don't see they're capable of getting the railroad out of all of what she's gotten into. I want to remind myself of what was done during the existence of ZTO Novi Sad, from 1 January 1977 to 31 December 1989, when we were taken away: more than 527 kilometers of rail in the Region was remounted; all railways were electrified; more than 10 electric locomotives were purchased, 10 electric vehicles and other equipment. The zero phase of the train tracking information system was introduced; steam tow was abolished; more than 100 freight wagons were purchased, 20 modern passenger cars for up to 200 km per hour. Vojvodina then had 44 electric locomotives, 94 diesel locomotives, 13 steam locomotives, 161 passenger cars, 67 Shinobuses, thousands of freight wagons of all kinds. In 1989, 16.58 million passengers were sent to Vojvodina, the number of employees was 13,600. There were business trains, then Avala Express, as well as working trains. What happened when the New Now was abolished? All the vehicles and tows have been seized by Vojvodina and an associated ZTO Belgrade that charges their rent. Today, the total length of the railroad is 1,735km in Vojvodina territory, but only 1,000km are used. The driving order is reduced, not maintained, and delays are huge, trains are in reduced composition, hygiene unsatisfactory. Although prices are low, there are no passengers and neither goods, because basic principles are not respected - regularity, accuracy and purity. In 2005, 3,61 million passengers were transported to Vojvodina, and, let me remind you, in 1989, 16.58 million. In 2005, 1.82 million tonnes of goods were loaded, 1989, reminders for 6,19 million tonnes. It was unloaded in 2005 2.16 million tonnes, in 1989, 7.80 million tonnes. Today there are about 6,200 employees in Vojvodina in ZTP, in 1989 there were 13,600. As a special curiosity, I would like to point out that the 1926 high-speed train crossed the road from Saturday to Belgrade in three hours and fifteen minutes, in 1989, in two hours, and today, in 2007, in three hours and eight minutes it writes in a row of driving, but when it arrives in five and a half hours, it is also a good result. Since railways, infrastructures, vehicles and tows are essentially, according to new European regulations, public good in general use, the object of attraction and employment, and the acquisition of profits, it is natural that the entire railway infrastructure should belong to the territory in which it is located, i.e. what I was talking about - Vojvodina. To remind you, not so long ago, I don't know if there are a month, I suggested, when there were parliamentary issues, that MPs, if not for sure others of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the legislator group of Vojvodina MPs, go and help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia drive into a second class that will be clean. If you have no other way, please, the starting station is Subotica, all six cars owned by ZTO Belgrade, bring them to Subotica and I guarantee you we will clean them up like that, but I ask you that when they are so clean, you keep them at that level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14335	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Sections 3, 15 and 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1). Budgetary system law. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14336	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, by amendment to Article 5. The 2008 draft budget law in heading 3.9 - Office of the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje municipalities I proposed an increase from 385.160,000 dinars to 785.160,000 dinars, with the aim of allowing economic classification of 463 - transfers to other levels of government from the proposed 310 to 710 million dinars. An increase in funds allocated to the Coordination Body of 400,000 dinars would allow for a reduction of funds in the division of 15 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and in the division of 17 - Ministry of Infrastructure, in the economic classification of 511 - buildings and construction facilities. Of course, if this amendment were to be adopted, only a return to the level of funds provided in 2006 would be possible. It would also allow for a more serious approach to solving life’s problems in this area. However, it is quite obvious that the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, which includes the President of the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, at the very beginning of its work, defined that half of the funding foreseen for investment projects in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja in 2007, so that the 2008 budget continues to be realistically reduced for this purpose. The government of the Republic of Serbia has very smoothly rejected the amendment I have submitted and has made it clear that it is directed towards the full elimination of the Coordination Body. In this way, the government, in a very sensitive time, seeks, in a rather irresponsible way, to free itself from the commitments made in February 2001 when a programme for this area was adopted in both the Republic and the Federal Government, which is essentially supported by the international community. I note that the government defines this drastically restrictive approach at a time when the unemployment rate in the Presevo municipality is about 70%, and it is even higher in the Albanian population in the entire Presevo Valley, both in Presevo municipality, in Bujanovac and Medvedja. It is also incomprehensible that these restrictive steps of the government are taken despite the fact that the Presevo municipality, with more than 90% of the Albanian population, located on corridor 10 and on whose territory one of the busiest border crossings is the most underdeveloped municipality in the country, with seven times less regulated national income than the corresponding national average. It is evident that due to the drastic reduction of funds intended for the Co-ordination Body in the Presevo municipality and this year the construction and reconstruction of the only facility intended for culture and information, which has been built for four years, has been suspended. Apparently, the government believes that, as it turns out, Albanians in Presevo do not need normal conditions for the work of the library, for the work of theatres and local media, such as the abandoned and realization of the outpatient maternity project, for which the health ministry's permission was provided in 2003 and which should have been re-functioned by this health institution whose work was interrupted twenty years ago due to the lack of minimum working conditions. If we add that there are currently no minimum conditions for youth sports activities in this municipality and that all public activities are at a lower level than 50 years ago, more than half a century ago, and that in the last 17 years, this country is not at all concerned with the problem of higher education of Albanians in the Presevo Valley... We have also received a reply from the minister of education who says students in this area can't even make scholarships and loans, because they study 90% of them at Pristina University, which is not funded by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's the answer, and it's absolutely disowning those youngsters, who must be entitled to higher education. If they are not provided here, in this country, then they will seek a solution either at the University of Pristina or in Tetovska, or in Tirana, anywhere, but where states are bound to their citizens who pay taxes... I use the Minister of Finance's presence to ask the question, what is the basis for establishing a flat tax in Presevo at an altitude of four or five times more developed municipalities, for example in Vranje or in some other developed municipalities? Even these starting bases are not published in the official paper at all, but there is someone internally deciding, and in some cases these starting bases reach more than 30,000 dinars, which is equal to municipalities in Belgrade and in far more developed parts of the state. In this context and in this situation, it can be said that there is no way to implement the basic principles that were laid down in 2001, which are: economic development, no economic development, not to remain in the same position, but the gap is deeper, the lagging is growing; further, the integration of Albanians into state and social structures -- and at the beginning something was, it now cares, there are no concrete steps; solving sensitive problems in public actions -- and that is not the case. In the privatisation process, the Coordination Body was absolutely not dealing with this problem. We have very bad examples of privatisation, with very severe consequences that workers now feel there. On the other hand, hard resources are being allocated to the administration of the co-ordination body that is supposed to deal with these citizens' problems, which is not the case. Since there are some midwives here who think that who knows what funds are going to the Albanians there, look at the explanation; it explains that the funds are intended in two directions, in co-operation with UNDP, which should encourage and cover the co-operation of municipalities in southern Serbia. And, indeed, out of the 290 million this year that belonged to these municipalities, 50 went to Leskovac, Vranje and other municipalities, in regional co-operation with the UNDP. CHF, which is mentioned here (this dramatically shows how far the Coordination Body is not even in progress with the events from the field), CHF had significant projects in our area and for some time they were with 50% of the joint funded projects in infrastructure. But when we had it – in 2004, 2003, 2005, they had already fallen in 2006, and in 2007, only Bujanovac had fewer projects, and Presevo and Medvedja had no projects in collaboration with CHF. It is forgotten, and it has not been followed at all, that in the meantime, the US USAID went with the SCOPS programme in economic development, and the competent ministry is not being monitored at all, nor is it mentioned in this explanation given in this part of the budget, because the competent ministry is not at all aware of what international donors are trying to do there. That, in my opinion, is the ultimate and most serious question. If there is no willingness to solve very sensitive life problems there, and I said one of the lenses is the integration of Albanians into the state and social system of the Republic of Serbia, I can easily tell you that so far they have done far more than the OSCE, the American Embassy, the German embassy, the British, but the state authorities in this area. Now, this topic really needs to be opened and given an answer that makes it so. What do dissatisfied people who were promised to deal with these problems more seriously in 2001, and there are no concrete indicators on the ground? So, what else do they do than ask the international community for help? But not the way it bends around here, starting with the highest levels, looking for an international military presence, and that's the whole point, that's what makes it so loud. It is precisely that all the most relevant political entities and all the Albanian committees and in their political platform are seeking a more intensive presence of the international community, such as co-operation with the OSCE, international donors, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a more serious approach to achieving the tasks, obligations and lenses set up in, again, the Federal and Republic Government programme, which was supported by the OSCE and NATO at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14337	Thank you. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of Section 3, 17 and 23 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14338	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, the essence of this amendment refers, in fact, to the music festival "The Weakranjce's Days", as well as to the Vratna complex, and here's what it consists of. In fact, last year we explained this amendment in front of the SPS, related to the festival "The Mokranjce's Days", which is otherwise financed by the competition from the Ministry of Culture's funds, but only for part of the funds needed for this festival. The amendment calls for the festival to be financed as a special budget item in the culture ministry's division as a programme of Serbia, similar to BEMUS, BELEF, with certain funds, approximately two-thirds higher than they are defined this time. In fact, we agree that there must be both BEMUS and BELEF, but there must be something that characterises eastern Serbia and also represents Serbia's brand. It is, to remind, of an international chorus singing festival where participation is mandatory every year for all countries that have a tradition of chorus singing, which are, above all, the countries of the former Yugoslavia, then Bulgaria, Romania, Russia, and we often have guests from other countries. What about this festival? There are 42 years of tradition behind this festival. We know who Stevan Stojanović The Mokranjac is, that he is a composer, conductor, horror director. With the first Belgrade singing society, he visited Europe and promoted chorus music with spiritual and ethnic elements. All of Europe has heard of Hajduk Veljak and he is known as a Serbian hero, as a Serbian brand. Today, Darinka Matic-Marović and her choir "Obilić" or the choir "Collegium music", and there is almost no man, academics, who has not visited this festival, so I am now taking the opportunity to mention Mladen Jagusta, Vida Ognjenović, Darinka Matic-Marović, Zoran Christic... I'm sorry, it's a long list, I can't name them all. Also, music schools throughout Serbia bear his name, Stevan Stojanovic's Mokranjc. What Tesla is for science, it's a horror singing urchin. For years we've been looking for our place in Serbia and wondering if anyone else has to find it for us, if we're going to force other people's brands and forget our own. As for the second part of the amendment, it refers to the Vratna complex. In fact, we are looking for a road that is categorized as a local road from the village of Vratna to the Vratna complex to be translated as a regional road and to be completed. The funds aren't big. Otherwise, the Vratna complex consists of a 14th-century monastery of Vratna, then a hunting ground and a reserve, as a protected zone of the Đerdap National Park, where many hunters and tourists come not only from Serbia, not only from the former Yugoslavia, but from all over Southeast Europe, then, the canyon of the Vratna River with stone growths, which is a unique natural phenomenon not only in Europe but also in the world and in public life. Namely, there are no mountain climbers, no mountaineering society from Southeast Europe that comes here without visiting the third gate. What's particularly characteristic of this natural entity is that all three gates of different origin. Many world scientific expeditions come to study this phenomenon, and also to study endemic species that are part of this complex, several hundred plant and animal species. What is the essence of this amendment is another thing: does Serbia want to forget eastern Serbia? Has Serbia forgotten that there is eastern Serbia in its composition? Does he even think about roads in eastern Serbia, about rail traffic, about the port of Prahovo, river traffic, about the Gerdap 2 border crossing? The state's attitude towards eastern Serbia since 2000 is seen, above all, through the situation of bankruptcy against the Last Auto-Transport company, when crisis headquarters were introduced and after that, bankruptcy was carried out, when practically eastern Serbia was cut off from Serbia. Also, "The End of Wine," a company that was a significant exporter of wine. Negotino wine is not a local brand; it is a Serbian brand. He's not here today either. The Prahovo chemical products industry as part of the base Bor, which has strategic significance, which uses natural resources and which the state wants to sell. We wonder, which country still sells its natural resources? Today, unfortunately, we only have Serbia on these issues until Zaječar. The highway from Zaječar to Kladova, 120km long, has won only one bridge for the past seven years, no kilometer of new asphalt, while the highway from Paracino to Zaječar, in the length of 80 km, has received several tens of kilometers of new asphalt. Also, rail traffic exists for Serbia only to Zaječar, and from Zaječar to Prahova has been forgotten. Also, will Serbia give up the Gerdap 2 border crossing? It was opened in 2006. It takes all four kilometers to connect the current track of Prahovo-Zaječar-Nish with the border crossing. The port of Prahovo has been forgotten as part of the Danube International River Traffic System. Hidrocentre Đerdap, Gerdap Lake, a new tourist challenge, four hunting sites, Vratna, Miroc, a national reserve for hunters from all over Southeast Europe, has been forgotten. It only takes a little will, a little investment to achieve a great effect. I remind you that eastern Serbia is on a three-way between Romania and Bulgaria. People are dissatisfied with the status of eastern Serbia in Serbia, especially as Romania and Bulgaria have become EU members. They demand that Serbia invest a little more in this part of Serbia, because someone can abuse it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14339	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Zvonimir Stević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14340	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Minister, I can't help but answer. I know this reporting to many is disturbing, especially the democratic coalition. The most important thing is that elections are called, high policy being conducted, and what fate is and what is the life of the people in Kosovo and Metohija, it is not important for many state officials in the Republic of Serbia at all. Namely, at this point, and every night, every day, in the central part of Kosovo and Metohija, the Moravian region, the Metohija people live in the dark. Although electricity supply in the north may have improved, there is no electricity for five hours in 24 hours. What is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija doing on this matter? Are measures being taken? I asked a question the other day and I'm looking for an answer. To remind you, the public knows that the people of Kosovo and Metohija know perfectly well that after the bombing and in spite of everything that has been damaged very quickly, we have ensured in a relatively short time that the people of Kosovo and Metohija have a regular supply of electricity. Mr. Riza Halimi here spoke of some investment in the southern part of Serbia, some infrastructure, but that people there have electricity, water, freedom and lead a normal life. Last year, an economic team through the international community conducted negotiations with the Co-ordination Centre and somewhat improved electricity supply. This year, right now, no one's taking care of the central area, the sea end, the Bezovica. I repeat, aren't these investments in the northern part an introduction to some division of Kosovo and Metohija? That is why the highest state authorities should answer these questions and say when the session on Kosovo and Metohija will be on the agenda of the negotiating team's report, that the president of the state and the Prime Minister tell us clearly and clearly what the fate of the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija is and what awaits him. I repeat once again, from the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, from the Ministry of Energy and from the Coordination Centre, I ask the question of what seems to be the problem of electricity supplying lessens or to improve the supply of central work, the Moravia, Metohija and Bezovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14341	We'll pass on your question, colleague Stevic. Members of the 5th Divisions 3 and 23 of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balint Pastor, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Rajko Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14342	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the other day in the principle debate, I said that the SVM would vote against the proposed budget for formal and essential reasons. As for the essential reasons, I said it was because of the enormous public spending planned by this budget, because of the position of Vojvodina, because of the position of agricultural producers in this draft budget, because there is no question of denationalisation in this draft budget and because of the position of minorities. Now I would like to talk about the position of minorities in the proposed budget and I would like to present to you a few amendments that we have submitted in the interest of improving the position of national minorities. We have submitted four amendments, namely amendments to which we want to improve the position of national minorities when it comes to the budget. I am very sorry that the government did not consider it celibate to accept these amendments, but I still hope that Mr. Finance will accept these amendments in the debate, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that these amendments will become part of the proposed 2008 budget. As for the first amendment, we proposed that 10 million dinars be allocated in the 2008 budget for the National Minorities Fund. I said in the principle debate that it is good that our tenacity has paid off and it is good that this proposed budget says that the national councils of the national minorities will have 150 million dinars in 2008. The resistance paid off because we agreed with the finance minister in June that this would be the case, regardless of how much the amendment to increase the resources for the work of national minority councils was not adopted, but now the position of national councils of national minorities is quite fine. The main problem is that national communities are mentioned only in one place, in that position, but there is no word about the National Minorities Fund, regardless of the fact that the National Minority Fund was formed by the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in 2002, with the aim of encouraging the social, economic, cultural and general development of national minorities. I quoted this provision from the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, which is a valid law in the Republic of Serbia, and no money was planned for the 2008 budget for this National Minority Fund. I would like to draw attention to the minister that it is not enough to allocate funds to the work of national councils of national minorities, but is of first-class importance and to form a Fund for National Minorities, i.e. to start the work of that fund, which was established by the Law back in 2002. With our amendment, we planned one symbolic sum of 10 million dinars, just to get that fund started. We have proposed that these funds be provided, practically, by the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic's cabinet, because we find it unacceptable that the budget of the Deputy Prime Minister Djelic is increased by more than two and a half times compared to 2007. It would be good to allocate 10 million dinars from these funds to start the work of this National Minorities Fund, which, once again, is to quote the provision of the applicable law, is formed to encourage the social, economic, cultural and general development of national minorities. This amendment was rejected by the government's argument that the National Minority Fund was not set up by any regulation, so there is no basis for identifying the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'd like to tell the Minister that it's just not true. I have already quoted the provision of the current law of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities twice, so it would be good to start working and this fund six years after the adoption of the law. As for the other amendments we have submitted to improve the position of national minorities, I would like to say the following. We planned an amendment to ensure that in section 23, which was divided by the Ministry of Culture, the amount of exactly 46 million dinars are planned for the realization of competitions in the field of culture of national minorities, as well as to provide an amount of 110 million dinars for the realization of competitions in the field of public information in the languages of national minorities through electronic media. We have added two new purposes here, but we have not taken any money from another position, it is simply that the planned amount is from a billion and 46 million, which will be available by the Government, or the Ministry of Culture, and we wanted to provide our amendment with these funds for the financing of the culture of national minorities and for the financing of the electronic media of the national communities. In this place, I would like to say that this amendment is not only the SVM MPs, but also the MPs of the Sandzak and Roma Serbia coalition. It is that the AP Vojvodina budget provides some funding for the culture of national minorities living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and some funds are also planned from the Vojvodina budget for electronic media projects that broadcast programmes in the languages of national minorities, but this is not the case in the territory of the rest of Serbia. For example, Bosniaks, Roma, Bulgarians, Vlasi and other national communities that do not live in Vojvodina territory are damaged because these national communities do not practically receive funding from the budget for their culture and for their information. For this very reason, we have jointly proposed that these funds be allocated from the budget. Once again, I'd like to point out that we didn't suggest that a single dollar be taken from any other position. We have simply suggested that these unscheduled funds, that is, part of these funds that will be available to the Ministry of Culture, would be intended to finance culture and finance the electronic media of national communities. We also suggested that 67 million dinars are intended to realise competitions in the field of public information in the languages of national minorities through printed media. In this case, the situation is the same, so we didn't propose as in the last one, so to call it, the amendment, that any dinar be taken from any other position, we simply suggested that these unallocated resources that the government will have are intended to finance the printed media of national minorities. If we take into account the fact that one third of the population of the Republic of Serbia, with AP Kosovo and Metohija, make up national minorities, and without Kosovo and the Metohija national minority account for about 18% of the population, then we from SVM, the List for Sandzak and the Union of Roma Serbia think that there are not a lot of 46 million for the culture of national minorities, not a lot of 110 million for informing national minorities through electronic media and 67 million dinars for informing national minorities through printed media. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Serbia felt that this amendment should not be accepted, and the justification is that these funds will be implemented after the budget has been adopted, after the criteria have been adopted, without these criteria being currently defined. Of course they're not defined, but I'd like to call the government to define these criteria in co-operation with national minority councils. There are currently 15 national councils of national minorities. Two days ago, the German national community formed its national council. I don't think it's enough to give 150 million dinars for these tips, but the government of the Republic of Serbia should consult these advices on the distribution of funds for culture and for informing national communities. We have also proposed an amendment that through specific recognitions in the future, the achievement of the artistic creation of national minorities, which for objective reasons cannot make a contribution to national culture and to the Republic of Serbia, but means an exceptional contribution to the culture of national minorities living in this country. We have proposed that these special recognitions be granted to members of national minorities, and here we have suggested that only the text in Article 5 in Section 23 in the economic classification 472 be changed and that these specific recognitions can be granted to members of national minorities unequivocally. There also doesn't need a penny to be given to members of the national minorities, we just proposed a text amendment to the draft budget law, but unfortunately our amendment was also not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I would like to appeal to Minister Cvetkovic (who, unfortunately, is not in the hall right now) to accept these amendments on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and if he does not want to do so, I advise him that in the 2009 draft budget, this solution foresees. He did the same thing this year. So what we proposed last year in the form of an amendment, it's now written in the 2008 budget. I don't know why the opposition's amendments are not accepted, but there are real chances that these amendments will be included in the 2009 draft budget. I hope so, because then the draft budget will be improved, at least in the section relating to national communities. As for the position of Vojvodina, the position of agricultural producers, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has proposed amendments on these topics. We'll talk about these amendments tomorrow, maybe the day after tomorrow. I believe that these amendments will be adopted, because it is simply not good to adopt the Republic of Serbia's budget in this form, meaning a budget that is almost not even talking about national minorities, which violates the Constitution as regards the situation of Vojvodina and a budget in which no adequate amounts are provided for agricultural producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14343	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Lasslo Varga has the word. Here you go, Comrade Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14344	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to the very text of the amendment, I would like to give a brief introduction. I would like to say a few words on how the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ruling coalition, and on the relations between the government and the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, this way of working, as this budget is adopted, simply the existence of the National Assembly loses its meaning. You MPs of the ruling coalition, of course, agree to this. You're watching this, you're not watching this. What kind of parliamentary work is it when three amendments arrived on the most important legislative proposal this year from the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, out of 130 MPs? What is your role in this system of functioning of the ruling coalition? Why are you sitting here in the O.R. spending time in this house? Someone challenge my claim that the National Assembly only serves as a voting machine of the government, which I think is very bad. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia accepted a total of half of the opposition MPs' amendments. Does the Serbian government really think that without nearly 120 opposition MPs there can be no good proposal, no good idea, that neither of the 104 amendments submitted by the opposition makes sense? That just can't be right. It can't be true, if not for another reason, then, of course, by the law of large numbers. Not to talk about why the amendments don't go along. It would be much fairer if the government simply said that the opposition's amendments were not accepted because the amendments were submitted by opposition MPs. That would save both the paper and the time. Some arguments are so pointless that a man simply can't believe it when he reads them. Now a little something about our amendments. There is a Latin saying that reads - Repeticio est mother studiorum, which means - repeating is the mother of knowledge. In the spirit of this saying, I would like to talk about this amendment submitted by my fellow Members. So, and in the principle debate, we said, I would like to reiterate that the budget for the first time since the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities provides for adequate resources for the work of national councils of national minorities. This is the joint success of the joint performance of all national councils of national minorities, and, of course, the success of the MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, who through discussions during this year's adoption of the budget, have managed to convince the ruling coalition to take into account the legitimate demands of the national councils of national minorities. However, funding for the start of the National Minority Fund is still not planned in the budget. Therefore, for the costs of functioning of national councils they are, but for the start of the work of the National Minorities Fund they are not. I want to remind you, therefore, of Article 20. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities was established by the National Minorities Fund. It has been five years since the law was passed, and since the lack of the Fund's security budget, unfortunately it has not begun work. The amendment, therefore, proposed to provide funding of 10 million, practically symbolic 10 million dinars for the start of this fund's work. Of course, we have proposed a source for this purpose, which would be to reduce the enormous costs of the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the amendment was rejected and, in my opinion, with a funny explanation. It explains that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why funding the activities of national minorities are foreseen in the budget of the Human and Minority Rights Service. It's predicted, it's true, for the work of national councils. Of course, the work of national councils is not equal to funding the activities of national minorities. Now the question arises whether the government really believes that more than a million inhabitants of this country's activities are sufficient to finance them? So, two euros per member of the national minorities in the eight billion-euro budget. This is humiliating to us. On the other hand, it also explains that the amendment proposes the allocation of funds to the National Minorities Fund, which has not been set up by any regulation. That's what Mr. Pastor was talking about; I want to repeat, it's just a fiction. Namely, the Fund is set up by Article 20, item 1. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. In accordance with Article 3(3) of the same Act, the Government was obliged only to bring closer regulations to determine the composition and effectiveness of the Fund, and of course to provide funds for the start of the Fund's work. She didn't do it. So that's the full truth. I want to do a little depression, look back at the work of the Human and Minority Rights Service. Unfortunately, this service has practically done nothing for years. The Director of the Service, who is also the Secretary of the Republic Council for National Minorities, has not held a meeting of the Republic Council for National Minorities for two years. The last session of the body was held on 23 December 2005. On the other hand, his deputy deputy director, who is a member of a group working on the creation of a law on jurisdiction and the selection of national minorities, does nothing but obstruct the work of that working group by making the most important law for national minorities in this country go as slowly as possible. In Part Two and Part Three, our amendment refers to the financing of culture and information in the languages of national minorities by the Ministry of Culture. In the principle debate, I have said and I repeat now, significant funds have been planned for culture and information, but the draft budget has not defined how much of these funds will be spent to support the cultural activities of national minorities, as well as for the needs of informing in the languages of national minorities. We just suggested that part of the funds in the culture ministry budget be unequivocally defined for funding programmes and projects of national minorities from these two areas, and given the fact that 15% of the population of Serbia, without the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, are national minorities. When this amendment was made, the fact was also taken into account that the Autonomous Province for Lists in the Languages of National Minorities sets out significant funds, over 200 million dinars and for the cultural activities of national minorities several dozen million dinars. The amendment was therefore aimed at equating to a greater extent the position of national minorities living in the AP territory with the position of national minorities in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, in the last period, we received assurances from the representatives of the Ministry of Culture that significant funding for funding programmes in the languages of national minorities within the framework of electronic media, and private and those whose founders are at this point (and we hope for a long time) of local self-government. You have also rejected these two proposals, which explain that the amendment in the work of pre-determining the funds for the realisation of competitions in these two areas cannot be accepted, because distribution can only be done after the criteria have been established. Either you are in complete error as to our amendment or whoever wrote this argument deliberately replaced the thesis. We did not propose to advance the allocation of funds for the implementation of these competitions, but we proposed that the total funds be determined for the realization of competitions in the fields of culture and information in the languages of national minorities, and that the distribution of the funds was of course carried out, as has been done so far, on the basis of the competition and after setting criteria. On the other hand, to make hypocrisy bigger, in the 2007 budget, in the current budget, you have, in the same way as this amendment proposed, predetermined some of the funds for individual purposes. Of course, it's just as indicative. I would also like to quote the 2007 Budget Law, a sentence that reads: "The amount of 13.508,000 dinars is intended for programmes in the field of international co-operation, folk creation and the creation of national minorities. "So in 2007, when you suggested the same solution, however, you proposed and identified the poor resources, but you suggested the same solution, then it could, and when we proposed that solution this year, then it couldn't. Of course, the question is also raised on the basis of which criteria it was decided to provide for half a billion dinars for the purchase of equipment from the same position for Serbia's Radio-Television. Of course, you can also see the connection between this amount and the rejection of our amendment. Namely, the promises concerning supporting the electronic media of national minorities that broadcast programmes in the languages of national minorities were false promises, and that is because you probably identified those funds, i.e. for the purchase of RTS equipment. Finally, as far as the last part of this amendment is concerned, it has been proposed that special recognitions in the future also be worth the achievement of the artistic creation of national minorities. These achievements for objective reasons cannot make a contribution to national culture in the Republic of Serbia, but they mean an outstanding contribution to the culture of national minorities living in this country. It is very interesting that there is no explanation to refuse this part of the amendment in the material. I think by rejecting all these amendments, the government of the Republic of Serbia has once again shown its attitude towards members of the national minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-12-17-0.u14345	The government submitted amendments to Section 5 of Article 5. MP Srdjan Shane. We'd better leave it for the morning. I just thought I'd come to realize that this amendment has been accepted by the Finance Committee. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. We're finishing today's work. Continuing tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. The first speaker will be MP Slavko Jerkovic.
