ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4474	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 127 MPs. In order to determine the actual number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Meho Omerović, Mujo Mukovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Canak. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European History of Local Self-Government (continuation) The word has a People's MP Radisa Ilic. Let the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the validation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and that I may present to the citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning of the European Charter, the date, Strasbourg, on October 15, 1985. Today, it arrived in Serbia on October 15th 1985. The minister sat in the time machine...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4476	Excuse me, Mr. Ilich, a moment. I'm asking the MPs for a little quiet. Let's show the press we're a serious house.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4477	So, the minister sat down in a time machine and brought us in at a time when this charter was written, at a time when Warsaw Pact, the Berlin Wall, Regan has largely implemented a plan with the Pope on the destruction of our country, and now it turns out that we were only waiting in Serbia for this charter on local self-government, to describe ourselves, to bring order to our municipalities and to wait as some students to adopt a future charter, let's say for corn and potatoes in Europe, a charter on the protection of local communities in Europe, a charter on sea algae in Europe, etc. Because of these proposals that come from beyond the past or, rather, from the last century, the chairman could order the technical service to have a calendar in addition to this hour, to see a time difference for another charter that the ruling coalition is likely to draw from the oil and bring to the MPs. What is Serbia's interest in accepting this charter? What exactly does Serbia get and what does it lose? Or is this all a line-up, just to sign up somewhere, for the record? Do we have the Law on Local Self-Government? We do. Do we have defined the status of municipalities in the new Constitution? We do. It's a miracle how far we've been able to go, here's not even 22 years without this charter. What about some provisions, or members of this charter, that simply do not fit into existing laws, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? In Serbia, where there is so much injustice, crime, robbery, usurpation of the official position, abuse of power, the European Charter is being discussed today. Why does this Europe not remember the Charter of the United Nations, but constantly violate it, seeking to hijack part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? That means there are charters for the house, which the people say, and there are those that are not respected. Europe is concerned about the inviolability of the right of local self-government, rather than, let's say, adopting a charter on the preservation of the territorial integrity of European states, so as to put it aside from Serbia. But Europe won't. We see what the European leaders are like when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Let us now return to some members of this charter, which I believe may be said of them. Reading Article 5 gives the impression that it is actually a starting signal to run from one municipality to another because of various interests. You can read this article yourself, so judge. Article 9, which has otherwise been mentioned, speaks of the financial resources of local authorities. Although I would remind those who love the charter of the double arches of this very Europe, who, for the sake of his political interests, does not choose the means to achieve its objectives. At the time of the darkest sanctions in Europe's recent history, Europe remembered that those municipalities where it ruled. The Together coalition helps financially by sending thousands of tons of mules and oil to them in a famous operation -- oil for democracy. On the other hand, the fact that about this oil for coalition leaders, together in cities, has long been involved in the affairs of abuse. It falls into the eyes of the cynicism of Europe and the desire to challenge division among Serbian citizens. In one town, cold maternity homes, cold hospitals, cold schools, in another where the Kobajagi Europe and democracy arrived, it's warm there. And this Europe, along with its ally, has hermetically closed Serbia's borders. Pay attention to Article 10, which speaks of the rights of local authorities to association. It's all good until the moment these associations start dealing with ways to separate themselves from the queen of the state and when the state reacts, there's an on-call one, I'd say, knight Who from Europe, who's following a charter that proves the state is choking on local self-government. In addition to the many charters and declarations that exist in Europe, I would like to know if there is any charter that could have prevented the launch of bombers from European airports loaded with uranium bombs, not to spill them onto the ground of Serbia, because it defended part of its territory, its Kosovo and Metohija, which is much more important to Serbia than the Fokland Islands for Great Britain, but the Great Britain because of that war, no one bombed. From Europe, we got the barbaric bridge, Alexinac, Nis, affected maternity homes, hospitals, schools, tragedy in the Gredile ravine. I look at all their charters through their works in Serbia. The fact that they teach us how to regulate local government and how the state treats the municipality is stories for those waiting to be registered as lovers of all charters, directives and protocols, only that they have a European epithet. If someone were to write a charter of umbrella paint tomorrow in Europe, that's exactly what we'd be doing. Now, on a practical case, I'd like to show how the executive authority refers to the local government. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you if you know the name Dusan Jeftic from the village of Lukovica near Svilian? Probably not, you may not even listen to me, but I'm interested in what you'd do for what I'm going to tell you what your local committees in Svilinco did. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Dusan Jeftic signed your motion to recall the president of the Svilajnac municipality. There's a signature in the form, and there's a birth number. The trouble is that Dusan Jeftic, a copy of the death certificate, died on 26 April 2006. So you falsified the signature of the dead man for impeachment. Further, did you know the names Stojanović Zhivan from Svilinc, and he died, Petkovic Natasha from Svilinc, and she died, Jovanovic Zoran from Svilinc, and he died, and many other persons who found themselves on the lists of persons who signed the impeachment for the president of the Svilinc municipality. Over 100 statements by people that their forged signatures, their own, their relatives, members of the deceased family, are now being filed against the counterfeiter, primarily from the DS. What I'd say and what's very important is that DS representatives raided the Svilinc Municipal Court and forced the president of the court to resign. The new court president's duties changed the verdict, so they could collect signatures without a warrant in court. That's how you treat local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4478	Milisav Petronijevic, a National MP, should be prepared for Mr Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the European Charter of Local Self-Government should be ratified, if anything, for one reason, which is precisely because Europeans can force this government to regulate this local self-government system in Serbia. It has already been shown in the previous two months that the government is not very ready to respect the Constitution, but is ready to respect every document where it stands - European. The European Charter should also be ratified for reasons better than the existing Law on Local Self-Government. The European Charter of Local Self-Government should be ratified because it is identical with the local self-government system law of the 1990s, which was one of the best system laws. This charter should be ratified for a simple reason to force this authority to pay greater attention to local self-government, because in Serbia we have a number of problems in the functioning of local self-government. It is seen that the committees are marginalised citizens, an initiative, in Serbia is the government of the municipality's executive body and is not responding to anyone. I'll point to two questions as a warning to this government. The first question is the denial of what the minister said yesterday about a pay phone in an explanation, which is that our legislation is in line with the European Charter. Mr. Minister, it's not. After all, see Article 3(2). Command. Local self-government regulates, that I do not read further, this right will be done by councils or by the assembly, composed of members who are freely elected by secret vote on the basis of direct, equal and general voting rights, who may have executive bodies that are responsible for them, them, councils or congregations. The local self-government bill isn't like that. We have an executive body, I will take an example of the mayor of Belgrade, I am not talking about a person, I am talking about a function, which is all the power in Belgrade, which is the owner of Belgrade, which owns 800m euros, which Belgrade has, as it is, Belgrade cannot get into or out of the traffic jams. The characteristics of the previous period were precisely this, major conflicts between the executive body and the assembly. Serbia had in more than half of the municipalities of the species' conflict, where the presidents of municipalities and congregations clashed. Therefore, this is not in line with the European Charter, which says that the executive bodies should comply with the Assembly or the Council. Another example I would like to warn the Government, I hope that when the Law on Local Self-Government is drawn up, it will be in line with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, but not now, another example is characteristic of warning this authority that if it does not respect its own constitution, which is in fact the highest act that everyone must respect, at least let it respect the European Charter because it is European. Here, let's say, what the European Charter says - the powers given to the local government will, as a rule, be complete and exclusive. They shall not be violated or restricted to other central or regional authorities, except in accordance with the law. When it talks about administrative oversight of the activities of local authorities, it says - any administrative oversight of local authorities can be achieved only in accordance with procedures and in cases provided for in the constitution or statute; and then, any administrative oversight of the activities of local authorities will, as a rule, aim only to ensure compliance with the law and constitutional principles. This is how the government does it, as the government applies the law, implements the Constitution, and how the government establishes some new definitions in mathematics, how mathematics applies in its own way. The constitution says in Article 192 - Government can, under certain laws, disband the congregation of the municipality. The government has applied the law, Article 112 says exactly when it can disband the congregation of municipalities. He then says -- at the same time as disbanding the assembly of the municipality, the government appoints a temporary body, which performs the tasks of the assembly, taking care of the political and national composition of the disbanded assembly of the municipality, and does not leave the possibility of the law to do otherwise. Here's a case of how the government does it, how the government doesn't respect the constitution, and I guess it will respect the European Charter because it's called European. Take, for example. The municipality of Velika Gradište, that the government does not respect the Constitution and is playing the electoral will of citizens. In the 2004 local elections, the SPS received 9 deputies, SRS 6, DS 3, G17 plus zero, New Serbia zero. The government introduces temporary measures in the Municipality of Velika Gradišče and applies the following mathematics: five members; two of them from the DS, and a total of three council members has, DSS one, New Serbia one and G17 plus one. There aren't any who have much more councilmen than these. Obviously, the composition is one that corresponds to the coalition government's composition. Mr. Minister, the European Charter obliges you to apply constitutional principles. Mr. Minister, the Constitution obliges you to apply the criteria set out in Article 192, final position. You don't do that. Besides, there's not much wisdom, it's easy to check, math is just one, two and two is always four, it can't be different, so go ahead and check it out. So, if you've already become recognizable in these last two months after not respecting the Constitution, we've talked about it for a long time in this assembly, starting with the ones you've been obliged to propose to the Assembly to consider them under constitutional law, which all of the electoral activities, and by this example you show that you don't respect the Constitution. If the European Charter will force you to comply with the legislation and respect the Constitution, it should be ratified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4480	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4481	Dear People's MPs, I have the need for my distinguished colleague Petronijevic to respond in some way, although I would not take that as an answer, but simply in one segment agreeing with him. In fact, the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has predicted that the temporary authorities, after the disbanding of the SO, maintain a national and party composition that is due to the electoral will of citizens. However, we are still applying the Law on Local Self-Government which was applied in the previous month, two, three, etc., and when Mr. Misha made most of it. In consultations in the Government, following the adoption of the Constitution, and in consultations with the Secretariat for Law, we have come to the conclusion that these provisions of the Constitution are not the ones that should have direct application. I suppose you don't agree with me and it's perfectly legitimate, but I just feel the need to tell you that surely in the new law on local self-government we will directly elaborate the provisions of the Constitution that you quoted and that I think are far more correct and justified than it is now. Of course, the position that has been in force for the previous four years, the provisional body is set up as a government body, etc. So, different legal bases, different interpretations and, in the extreme case, different views on whether this provision of the Constitution is applied directly or not. In any case, I find your objection extremely meaningful and will certainly be introduced into the new law on local self-government, in the hope that this, conditionalally speaking, will now be solved by dualism that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4482	Thank you, Mr. Minister. By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? Replica, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4483	I can't agree with you. The Law on Local Elections, the Law on Local Self-Government, etc., should be laid down. We don't have a disagreement here. But I ask you, does the constitutional provision, the one I quoted earlier, prevent you from doing so now? He's not stopping you, Mr. Minister. So you don't have an explanation that -- well, we've been doing it for three or four years, 23 years, it doesn't matter, we like to go back far. I'm simply asking you -- does this provision of the Constitution prevent you from doing so? Whether your goal is to implement the Constitution or your goal is to delay a little while longer, until you see something else that you can do, or b(l)etonate, and only then. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4484	Thank you, Comrade Milisav. According to the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Rajko.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4485	Thank you, Comrade Mrkonjic. Happy day to you, and to us from the SPS. It's a beautiful day for us today. Thank you. Mr. Minister, if you find out that there's mud in some territory or that it kills electricity, you don't go there. You have a constitution and nothing prevents you from applying the Constitution. What you are now trying to do is the following, until new local elections are discussed, you are composing temporary organs in such a way as to match the coalition that exercises power and thus make a logistics preparation for new elections from the position of government and then, based on that position, to materialise that position in the next government. That's the point. We can talk about this as much as you want, but it doesn't make any sense. First, it is immoral when a political party in the local parliament elections is below three percent, it is so only censorship, and it does not take any councilmen, and you give them your decision by one or two members in the provisional council, it is simply immoral. It's not according to any practice I know about politics. So, those who competed and stayed below the line should not even agree to be members of the temporary council, because it is not really a question of whether or not anyone wants to, but simply you put your finger around people who went to the polls and took 10-15% of the votes. That's the first thing. The second thing is, it's not normal for the Ministry whose head you are to be a service to the ruling coalition. It must be a service to local self-government in Serbia. It must be a service to those citizens who said that this political will in some municipalities is like this or something. So please, don't underestimate our intelligence, give us a better explanation or don't give us any explanation, because otherwise it really doesn't make sense. There are a lot of problems, we warned you, I still want to tell you, in the municipality of Gornji Milanovac is a terrible situation, you still have a municipality that has suspended funding, you have the secretary of SO who made the counterfeit, she announced the non-existent act in the non-existent official messenger and thus declared the budget. It's a criminal act. You have 50,000 residents of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac, who today cannot bring the children back from Buljarica from their flight and send another because they cannot finance any needs. So the state has to have a mechanism to say, this is what I want, this is what I don't want. He cannot suffer 50,000 citizens in one municipality because six political parties and the president of the municipality cannot find a common language. You, Mr. Minister, are a common language, you put your hand on the table and you say - these 50,000 citizens must meet their basic needs. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense that we, neither you nor the councilmen in Gornji Milanovac, nor the president of the municipality, and nothing like that. I know you can do it, do what your powers are, and allow one local self-government to function. I want to tell you one more time, the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac was a sighting municipality for 30 years in the SFRY and don't underestimate it. You may not like someone there, you may not like yours, someone else's, it doesn't matter, but there live people who need to exercise their basic rights and they pay taxes, taxes, VAT and everything else. You did receive, someone received, thank you, but nothing was solved. It's a free entry into the Ministry, when someone commits a felony there, forges an unadopted SO budget and publishes it in a fake "official messenger". What are the prosecutors doing? What do they do in this country? I'm not talking about the violation in the local community of a self-inference to pave the way for 100 meters, but I'm talking about the budget of a municipality where there are 50,000 residents living. Do whatever you can to unblock this municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4486	Thank you, Comrade Rajko. Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4487	Of course, we've talked a lot about this topic, not only Gornji Milanovac, it's about many other municipalities in Serbia, over the past three years there have been dozens of municipalities in Serbia, where various labour blockades that have generally been reflected in citizens' lives. Many municipalities in Serbia have exhausted the impeachment, the election of the president of the municipality, and we all know it well here. So I expect your support when we talk, constructive support, I don't mean political, but support in the talks, when we adopt this new law on local self-government. So there are many problems. It is obvious that the provisions of the existing Law on Local Self-Government have not been implemented well with us, or are not suitable for the situation in Serbia. I recently read an analysis related to electoral systems in the countries of the Council of Europe. It's interesting now to take this electoral system that we have. The advantages and disadvantages of this electoral system have been made. Believe me, everything that is flawed by this electoral system is as if they were looking at Serbia. It's amazing, but there really isn't a single flaw in the electoral system that hasn't shown up in Serbia. I expect that we will come together to a better law on local self-government, to pass a law on local self-government that will disable these things that we now have in Gornji Milanovac, and in Pozarevec, and Ljubovija, I don't know where, we had in Kula, Zrenjanin and not to add any further. On the other hand, I wish we had legal instruments right now, after these two months, to do what you suggest, Mr. Baralic, and to solve some situations. Mr Petronijevic read nicely where they begin, where the authorities of the Ministry of State and local self-government, i.e. the government's jurisdiction, end. We were moving within the limits of it and to say, about it, we were actually working exclusively under the Law of Local Self-Government. He's our primary, parent, we're applying him, and that's how we're gonna do it until we get a new law on local self-government. I hope that the new law on local self-government will deprive us of the need to discuss at least these problems. The problem will always be, but if we try to add up these previous experiences, we can come up with an optimal law on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4488	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to listen to the minister when he is trying to explain and convince both you and the citizens of Serbia that the interest of both his and his ministries, or these governments, is to take care of the citizens and not to be interested in any other matter, nor are they politically determined, nor are they voting for anyone, nor are they going to vote for, but they are strictly upholding the law. Unfortunately, they don't stick to the Constitution, and in the Constitution, they already read it to you, it says what the ministry should do if a temporary administration is introduced. I would remind you, Mr. Minister, that your president of the party, or the president of the state, Boris Tadic, was the first to leave or one of the first to leave and split the citizens of Serbia. Divided into citizens of Serbia who should be good because it assumes that Mr. Micunovic's head will probably agree, they are good citizens of Serbia because they will vote for the Democratic Party or for the Democratic Party candidate, and those who do not, they are bad citizens. You're here to convince us that you treat all citizens the same way. Well, that's not true. In municipalities where you know, by the settlements where they voted for another political party or other options, you come to them by the way, you don't go further because you tell them openly - you voted for radicals, there's nothing for you. How do you behave only when you introduce temporary measures? It's as purely party as you do in the municipalities. Look at the public enterprises. You had, Mr. Minister, to open a newspaper today, see only what public enterprises in Serbia are for. To make party officials, i.e. people get caught and to get Serbia as much money as possible. It's your way of thinking and your way of working, just to get to the prey, when you get to the prey to take care of it because you're sure you won't stay long, to take as long as you can until you're out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4490	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that I am at least appalled by what I heard from Mr. Minister, which is that the new Constitution, if it is contrary to the old constitution, is applied to the old constitution, Mr. Minister. The law applies instead of the Constitution, you said, that decision was made by the government. And who voted this constitution in the referendum? Citizens. And who's older than the government? Citizens. Now you've given us some sort of charter here on local self-government. When a man looks at what you wrote, as you wrote, you concluded, let's say it was some supposed shift. The Serbian Radical Party is programmed to strengthen local self-government and to make it a path to decentralisation of Serbia, so that the Republic of each jurisdiction will trust municipalities rather than symbolically as it is now, and to give in to public revenues from the Republic of Serbia's budget, to either be original or trusted revenues to local self-government. How'd you do that so far? So whenever any income by law was transferred to the jurisdiction of local self-government, whether it was original income or trusted, immediately thereafter was the session of the Serbian Parliament, where the income and the tax rate would be reduced, and boasted to the citizens that you think of them and that it was a tax reduction in their favor, allegedly to the harm of the government, and the government was not giving up anything, but the only punishment had local self-government. One more thing, Mr. Minister. Local self-government is shared in local self-government where you are in power and local self-government where you are the opposition. A single government can't afford that. Local self-government before the government and before the law must be exactly the same. Now, on the case of the Municipality of Pogorec, I will say that the old government, and the rich and the new, care for local self-government and what are the double arches, and what can be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? At a session of the Municipality of Požarec Assembly, held on 1 December 2006, a group of committees submitted an initiative to dismiss the president of the municipality's assembly. Three council members from the ruling coalition resigned as a council member in the Pogorec municipality. The speaker of the assembly began a session of the Assembly, notified the Assembly of the council of the termination of the council's mandate and determined the end of the mandate of the disputed committees. According to the Council's termination, some of these committees went out for a pay phone and claimed they had never resigned. But, Mr. Minister, there's one problem, that they told the court that these were their resignations and that they were really filed. What's the point, a written word, a spoken word or a statement to the court, when someone can completely protect from this pay phone saying whatever they want because they enjoy some kind of immunity? The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, by letter of 19 December 2006, indicated that the three council members had not stopped their mandate because they needed a positive view of the assembly when establishing the mandate. Now there are MPs here who are ten and a half and a half years of MPs, so let's have one of them tell us how to measure the positive attitude of the congregation. It was signed by then by state administration minister and local self-government Zoran Loncar. Because of the date he put on December 19th, he was nicknamed Santa Claus in Pozarevec. He wanted to give power to his friends, to his friends, to some even to the tycoons in the Municipality of Pogorec, to play with the citizens of the municipality, nothing more. The letter of December 19th and the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia resulted, Mr. Minister, in the following consequence: calls for October 5th at press conferences for members of the parties making up the thief's bloc, attempted violence in the Pojarovac municipality building and attempted to repeat October 5th. Just not that you couldn't do it again on October 5th in the municipality of Porevac and your friends there, but you could have gone even worse as you went. At a session scheduled for 18 December, which was scheduled to bring the budget of the Municipality of Požarec, due to a failed entry into the municipality of Požarec, attacked workers and attempted entry into the cabinet of the president of the assembly, a bomb was dropped on the municipality of Požarec on the night between December 17th and 18th, it was aimed at hitting the hall in which the budget was to be brought. But he didn't seem to be able to guess, so he hit the parlour. That's what it looks like when the Government of the Republic of Serbia has double standards. If double standards exist, you can tell from the following example, Mr. Minister. I have repeatedly asked for budgetary inspection to come to municipalities where you, in power, intervened, pointed to abuses in spending budgets, where so many material violations of the law and abuses were applied, that, without any deepening in the documentation, someone should go to jail. No budgetary inspector has ever come to these municipalities. But that's why you sent a budget inspector to the Fireman municipality. What does a budgetary inspector in the Municipality of Povorec do? Here's the record, Mr. Budget Inspector Misa Misic. That's what it's called, so Mr. Budget Inspector starts a budget inspection by controlling the adoption of the 2006 budget. He says there's an income side, an expense party, so when the budget was made, it's in line with the budget system law. But watch what the budgetary inspector is getting into now. The 18th session, a famous session of December 1st, has never been completed, the budgetary inspector enters the way the council's mandate ends. I've never seen that before. Here's the regulation that the government regulates the work of a budget inspection. I don't want to read the whole book. I will only read what it says on the legitimacy of the budgetary inspector, and it is said - the holder of this legislation has been authorised to, under the jurisdiction laid down by law and other regulations, exercise control of the documents on material and financial operations, dedicated and legal use of funds by the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 67. Budgetary system law. Now I don't know what the council members have to do with the end of the term of office with a budget inspection. But, look, this man is a top expert. He didn't just enter the cease-fire of the council. He's moving on. He makes a record from the 19th session of the Municipality of Povorec, where a man enters the next problem. The 19th session, held on December 6th, according to the minutes of the session, was attended by Parliament Speaker Ivan Grubetic and 36 of the 60 deputies. According to a written explanation of Dragoljub Bogdanovic, head of the 24th Assembly Department. 01. In 2007, in the number of 36 present committees, three committees were also invited to confirm the mandate of the council members at the same session. He's no longer in office. So, the budgetary inspector said that the three of us stopped the mandate, and now we're going again, now we're going for verification. The whole record, on two sides, of the budget inspection, reads about the 19th session, when it was just a verification of the council's mandate. To be an even bigger expert, man enters the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Municipality of Požarec and interprets the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Municipality of Požarec. He says -- they couldn't do it, it's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Well, look, Mr. Minister. In Article 5, it says - it is called to point 1 - calling of the first assembly. He's a little illiterate, though, because it's not a point, it's an attitude. But it quotes the rules of the Rules of Procedure. In the same Article 5(2), it again quotes the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In Article 5(3), he again quotes the rules of the Rules of Procedure and says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now, in the measures proposed, one of the measures is for the municipal administration authority to decide on the introduction of temporary financing because, according to the budgetary inspector, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Municipality of Pogorec is not respected. It's about that part of the story. We'll talk about it later. One more thing, in Article 11 of the Charter, to which you are so much invited, you say that local self-government has the right to seek the protection of its rights before the Constitutional Court. Now, you pass laws like this when someone has the right to seek the protection of their rights before the Constitutional Court, protection from the Constitutional Court, when you form a Constitutional Court, not in this law that you consciously have done and which to this day lasts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4492	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Pivac.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4493	The Honorable Presidency (yes, I am from the Fireman), ladies and gentlemen MPs, I would only remind Mr Veroljub Arsic that the government was formed on May 15th. That's for information, since he probably doesn't know the Democratic Party wasn't in the government before May 15th. The government was supported by representatives of the SPS and at the time by state administration and local self-government minister Zoran Loncar gave his opinion. So we didn't invite anyone, we as the Democratic Party out of power to come and control anything. Otherwise, a man can't hold your head or your tail. Why? Because when we look at what you're saying in one town, what you're saying in another town, what the representatives of one of your municipal committee say, what else, man doesn't know if you actually have a single policy or what you're saying is just right for you. I'll give you a few examples. I don't know if Mr. Petar Petrovic is here. Since the Serbian Radical Party in the Jagodina coalition is with its party, and on July 18, 2006, sorry, that is the second date, March 28, 2006, when the local election campaign in Smederev, Dragan Colic, who is otherwise an SRS MP in the Serbian Parliament, says the following -- an attack on the DSS on support of Palma in a campaign for the president of the municipality. He says Palma's a drug dealer, who got so rich, and he had nothing to bite him for, and Palma was more of a stocking on his head than I had on my feet. So that's what Smederev said, and you're in a coalition in Jagodina. Then why are you in the Jagodina coalition? It's all right, Mr. Colic, from word to word. As for cases of violations of the conflict of interest law, we have called at the local Assembly of the Firefighters for this particular violation, namely that the committees cannot be directors and cannot be presidents and members of the Supervisory Boards. You know why? Because it's legal. The second thing, he said, July 18, 2006, Nis, in "The Evening News" was published - city council adopted only the agenda yesterday morning. He says, Vlasimir Jovanovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group, during 15 minutes of work, until this regular break, has only taken the opportunity to criticise individual members of the council who have the post of council. In view of the fact that under the law, a committee member cannot be a member of a board of directors or supervisory board at the same time, Jovanovic protested that members of parliament were also larger. You say one thing in Nis, you say the other in the Fireman, that's how it suits you. Now, as for the minister's opinion, you know what, Mr. Todorovic, you said here on 22 May 2007, you respect the minister's opinion, and you say that in Novi Sad everything is fine, because Minister Zoran Loncar confirmed it with his own opinion. Tell me why it's not okay in the Fireman, it's okay only in the New Sad. So it's just how it suits you. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post of vice president: No, but as you please. I quote you. You know, here you were talking about some minutes, a minute and 20 seconds of resignation, etc. There is in the minutes of the Pozarevac Municipality Assembly, when one member of the Democratic Party supported, among other things, the SRS. The president of the Grubetic Assembly, in the record, calls him after three or four days and says, "Milan, you know what, don't, please, continue to be a councilman." And he's still a councilman. That's what the record says. We know of course what the price is, he's employed, he's a woman, it's nice for everyone to work, the son of the first marriage, the daughter-in-law, etc. That's how you do it. Since the minister said the law should be applied retroactively when we adopted it and that the problem with 400 workers, who are otherwise employed, and you have employed 400 people during the last 30 months in Pogorevec. That's what you're defending for the assembly speaker, and Dusan Vujicic, who you're in the coalition with, the president of the municipality, says it's good to hire, that it's good to spend the budget and that's spent 300 million dinars. Conditions need to be created. I didn't want to argue with a colleague from Petrovec, he said the industrial zone used to work. You did work in Pogorevec, but unfortunately until 2000. It is certain that Slobodan Milosevic would not have lost in 2000 in Pozharevc from Vojislav Kostunica that the industrial zone worked in 2000, but that thousands of people were out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4494	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4495	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, right now I have to admit something, I didn't believe I was going to get into this situation. These yellow ones are going to be something, they're starting to learn from radicals. They go to the bar and watch what radicals say and what they do, because they realize that with their policy and way of functioning they have no chance, no future, and it's normal to learn from better and smarter. This shows this example of fellow MPs who came out. Normally, in some situations and cases, he found that some MPs, or SRS officials, had made a statement. But this is about one thing, is anything that's been said false. Were the radicals saying one thing and working the other? Did he find... What are you nervous about? Did he find that the radicals voted from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki? Today you have in the papers, he says - the Bodrum affair is over. How'd it end? No one is responsible, Allen Selimovic was released, it is known that you were stealing, but no one was responsible. That's the problem for you. You're transferring something to someone. Just take the DOS to power, how many women, brothers, sisters did you hire only in the government? You're transferring something to someone. You're telling me that I've commented on the decision of Minister Loncar about Novi Sad. I didn't say she was good or bad. I was just quoting what the minister wrote about the play he was given. That's what I'll always do, and when the minister's right and when he's wrong. Here you get the facts of how those who are assigned to the municipalities are acting in order to seek something that, first of all, they have no right under the law, and secondly, not to really determine what is done, but to find some mistake. What were you doing in 2001, 2002 and 2003 by the ministries? You dug up everything alive to find something for the SRS. When you didn't find anything, you started making false criminal charges, because you needed to find a title in the paper, a criminal report filed. Who responded to any criminal charges. Tell one who answered. You've been in power for seven years. Is there one single radical, one against whom criminal charges were filed, that he was convicted of some illegal act? Name one. You can't specify anything. And don't forget your immunity, come out and tell me which immunity. Name any immunity, any parliamentary immunity. And who hid behind the parliamentary immunity? You cheat all the time. Come out for a pay phone, why here, when you have something to say, you have the opportunity here to say everything you think, and the facts to say, not phrases.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4496	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Baralić, according to the Rules of Procedure and then Mr. Arsic, Čolić and Miletic, replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4497	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. There was no reason for a respected member of the Democratic Party to mention some kind of support from the SPS to the former government. I just want to remind you, dear colleague, at the moment when the decision was made to go to the new elections, that government so skillfully hesitated to the Democratic Party that it was difficult to watch. So she was so ready to do whatever you wanted to do to get your current position, and they're in the current position, that it was just amazing what was going on and you know it. At that point, no responsibility for what you're talking about had no SPS, but Mr. Loncar, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acted by increasing the coalition capacity of the parties that formed the government and who will come with you today to power. So that's absolutely true, you have no reason to make this argument, because it just doesn't stand. As for these others, don't mess with different positions and different people. And when he left the government, Slobodan Milosevic received two million votes alone. I call on your President Tadic to get two million votes now, with all your support. That's not possible. Therefore, you have no reason at all, do not mention industrial zones and people who have lost their jobs, since you are in power in Serbia, millions of people are out of work and there will be five hundred thousand left this year and next year. Only Serbia has increased the number of employees in different administrations, services, 30,000 in the administration, as you know, etc. You have no reason to be nervous, we don't bother you here, on the contrary, we do our job here, you rule here. Our job is to analyze what you're doing and in a way that's only possible for us politically appropriate, say what it is that you're doing here. Otherwise, don't raise these internal coalition problems at the bar to the level of parliament. It's just not necessary. The second question is when one minister does his own will, so he blocks one municipality or he does something that's completely against the law, and all of this here is going to be regulated by you at the bar. There's going to be a new election law, this one when you adopted, we said it couldn't work. Then you believed, there are 176 of us, and we'll make an election law to clean up everyone else, we'll go to the election block, it'll be just our president of the municipalities, and then Pasic's curse comes to you. You didn't pass laws when you were in power for that position when you'd be in opposition once. Serbia has been blocked by one crazy electoral law on local self-government, which allowed the president of the municipality to be an executive power, practically egal with the council's council boards, and, in addition to checking in certain municipalities, the ratings of certain mayors, it remains unknown who exercises power, and citizens are aware of what the law has to do with consequences. We'll give you support to change that law. We're not ashamed to vote if you suggest it, but this one's no good to you, because you didn't do what was most important at that time, you didn't analyze what the consequences would be. Politics are decisions and consequences, there's nothing out there.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4498	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4499	Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 226, an explanation of the Bodrum affair. So, the Bodrum affair, as they write today's paper, is over, and I'm saying it's not over, because it's not even started. What has been ruled that Mr. Allen Selimovic has been released of the indictment, refers to the fact that he was accused of misappropriating the card of MP Natasa Milojevic, who was then the MP of Covic's Alternative. Okay, Orlic's Social Democracy, sorry, you're right, Mrs. Kolundjia. You changing a lot of parties can't get to you. So it was about Natasha Milojevic's card and Alen Selimovic's first degree sentence was conditional, I don't know what it was. Generally, Boris Tadic promised in the election campaign, in fact, because he was pressured by the public to plead on the Bodrum affair, then he said, it is true that there was this affair, it is true that Neda Arneric voted from Bodrum and that he, in his party, would no longer deal with it, but would leave the court to solve the problem of the affair and that DS would behave according to the court's decision. In fact, I want to formulate myself as a parliamentary question to Minister Petrovic, because he can and should get that information. So, no criminal charges have ever been filed against those involved in the Bodrum affair. The Bodrum affair was attended by Dragan Sutanovac, Bojan Pajtic and Vojislav, who I can't remember his last name, the colleague who was the director of the "Serbian", such as Rajko, was the last name, Jankovic. So these three men were sitting where Neda Arnerić's credit card was inserted and those three men were responsible. Of course, lies later placed on Serbian citizens by Bojan Pajtic, who claimed that Neda Arneric from Bodrum to Istanbul had come by taxi, and didn't know how many hundreds of kilometers away, and then that Radosavljevic, then an MP from Kragujevac, waved cards, or those envelopes of some airline tickets, claiming to be Neda Arneric's maps, and a passport showed, but said - he won't show what's inside, because it's a personal matter. For the sake of the public of Serbia, the Bodrum affair is not resolved. Boris Tadic lied to Serbian citizens. He did not release his party from those who participated in the Bodrum affair, as promised, but was one of his participants, Bojan Pajtic, a senior official, or Prime Minister in Vojvodina, Dragan Sutanovac, another participant in the Bodrum affair, he is the defence minister. Therefore, what the newspapers are writing is not the right information, and I want to inform the Belgrade public prosecutor in this way to make sure that it is not too late to launch the resolution and these affairs, so let's see who is really responsible, who inserted Neda Arneric's card, because it is undeniable that she did not, and she admitted it. So what the newspaper says today is obviously a somewhat clumsy explanation, and the real truth is that Boris Tadic lied to Serbian citizens when it comes to the Bodrum affair, still unresolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4500	Mr. Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4501	Ladies and gentlemen, I would love it when it comes out for this pay phone to say all things, not half the truth. It is true that when the DS began these events were not in the republican government, but it is true that you had a coalition with the DSS that was then in the government, whose then was Minister of State and Local Self-Government, who made moves for both the DSS and the DS. You mentioned a conflict of interest in the municipality of Pogorec. This is regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, Mr. Pivac, and you should have told this speaker whether anyone from the SRS, a committee member at the Pogorec Municipality, is he a member of any board of directors, supervisory board or director of companies and institutions? It's not. The SRS itself solves a conflict of interest in its party. I also read to you the Official Messenger of the Golubac Assembly, where your president of the municipality is at that same session of the Municipality of Požarevec Assembly, where only DS officials, members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of public enterprises. That's how many of you have double standards. Employees at the municipal administration, Mr. Pivac, when you came to power after October 5th, February 2001, with the support of the SPS, they had 38 council members, and you 30, the whole DOS, found 90 employees. There are now over 200 in the municipal administration since the moment you lost power. So, about a hundred people and more you hired. They're all from your parties. Since the SRS has been in power, no member of your staff has lost a job from the municipal administration of Pogorec, unless he has committed serious injuries to labour discipline. When it comes to what you are looking for, the permanent introduction of a forced administration into the municipality of Pogorec, when any official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia comes to the territory of Braničevsky County, all of you fly to it as one and shout - give power, give power, give power to us power. I wonder how much trouble local self-government is, why? Because while you were in power, some of your officials, if not all of them, forgot people were having lunch at home, forgot their women were making their lunch, just going to restaurants, and some suddenly the standard jumped. Where did that come from? When you talk about morality, I'm really amazed. You between the DSS and the DS, who does what in the Firevac, steal each other's mandates and make coalitions. You're stealing mandates from each other within one coalition and making coalitions, and you're saying it's moral. That's what DS and DSS are like. We're absolutely right when we say you're exactly the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4502	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Light.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't take any more of this. It is true, I agree with you, that no member of the SRS in the Municipality of Pogorec violates the Law of Conflict of Interest. As for this part of the MPs and members of some council, I must tell you, I follow you, as you, Mrs Radeta, said, so I follow everything and what Mr Tomislav Nikolic says, I followed what Vojislav Seselj said, and I followed his performance on December 6, 1990. I don't know how many members of the SRS followed at that time, which are members today, but Mr Tomislav Nikolic said three months ago and more than three months ago that no member of the SRS violates the Law of Conflict of Interest. Only two or three rows behind him, Mr. Sasa Valjarevic did not resign at the time to join the municipal council, and you said that six members of the SRS had resigned, and that no SRS member simply violated the Law of Conflict of Interest, but I did not want to be a prosecutor, and so did the rest. Ivan Grubetic, president of the assembly, told the media on June 14th, so there was little violation of the law. This is a statement by a member of the SRS for the media on June 14th. As for the rest, Slobodan Milosevic had two million votes, Slobodan Milosevic had three million and 260 thousand votes in 1990, 46% of the total voting body, Vojislav Seselj had 100,000. We present our ideas, our programs, at one point that's 100,000, at another point that's a million and 115 thousand. We had 460 grand, so we had 920 grand, and I hope it'll be a lot more than a million, so it's a political struggle. I repeat again, I follow, of course. And Priory, I'm not against, and I accept both good ideas and members of the SRS, and members of the SPS, and I have no problem with that at all. So I'm not voting against you right now because someone suggested something from another political party, but I agree with some of the things that the political party says is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4504	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4505	President-in-Office, honourable MPs and MPs, I report for breach of Rules of Procedure by Articles 103 and 104. No more insults to the DS account. I come from the municipality of Kučevo where it is in power is the SRS. Now I'm going to tell you a few things about what's going on in the Kochevo municipality. First, at the first constitutive session, of 43 committees in the municipality of Kučevo, how many municipalities of Kučevo, with 17 committees, then the ruling coalition replaced all directors and changed members of the boards of directors. I worked at the Kochevo municipal administration and lost my job at the time the radicals came to power. No criminal charges were filed against me, but I got a trial in court. Let me just say that in the municipality of Kučevo building SO was mortgaged and that the president of the municipality, Zoran Milekic, took credit from the Bank of Intez and pawned the building of the Assembly of the Municipality. Furthermore, in the meetings SO Kučevo is voted by citizens, not by the committees. I've got a disk from those sessions and I'll share it with all the MPs in the O.R. The haughtiness of the president of the municipality is reflected in the purposeless spending of budgets, the employment of neighbours, relatives and godparents. He put his cousin in charge of the municipal administration. The roads are paved to the i.e. The SRS, or their houses. You have in the village of Resnica, the road is paved to the house of the SRS committee. You can come to Kučevo to be my guests and see what is done in this municipality. In addition, one Single Serbia council member was kidnapped by finding his falsified resignation at the municipality administration's office one day. You know what happened then? Then the radicals in Kučev invented something new -- a councilman for a certain time. A budget rebalance was adopted with that committee member for a certain period of time. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Learned from you. ( ) As far as the Municipal Committee of DS Kučevo is concerned, you cannot point a finger at any member of the DS. As far as the representatives of the SRS are concerned, they can be talked about a lot about their work in the municipality itself. I thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4506	Miss Jasmina Milosevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4507	Dear fellow MPs, to speak to the gentleman who spoke earlier, you first called two people who are not here, Mr Peter Petrovic. If you're talking about a coalition in Jagodina... Yes, you called, you said - Mr. Petrovic isn't here, but I'll say it on his behalf. In the Jagodin municipality of the coalition, not only is the Radical Party with Unique Serbia, among other things. If it were a coalition that didn't work properly, at this point one single and first park in Serbia would not be opened, not to tell what else Jagodina has left. I've been living in New Belgrade for three years, looking at some building. Secondly, if there was a cantar that measured the weight of words spoken in campaigns, there might not be a government today either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4508	Replica, first Mr. Colic, then Mr. Miletic, then Mr. Arsic, if it is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised by the peace of mind of some panic in a thieving yellow company of the DS. We don't know what caused you, Mr. Arsic wasn't so hard on you. He has made some facts, he has been convincing, he has made arguments, and all the citizens of Serbia who are following this session of the Republika Srpska Assembly see how superior SRS MPs are in relation to all of you. Sir, whose name I don't know, quotes me as saying something about Dragan Markovic to Palm. I've never said that Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma is a drug dealer, not because I'm afraid, because we Serbian radicals fear no one but the Lord God, we are the voice of our people, we faithfully serve our people, that I know this information about Mr. Palma, you believe he would bring them out. Sir, who I don't even know, is so famous in this parliamentary and political life, it reminds me of the aspect of a well frog. You know what that means? Lived frogs in limited water, bounded by bricks, wells, only knows about that surface of water, and then, by chance, they find themselves in front of the ocean and then they say, "Look, how come this much water?" So you're from a thieving yellow company. You've suddenly found yourself in front of a huge government, in front of a great government, so you're stealing. So then he says, crime, corruption, poverty -- the DS association. Now, that's what you're famous for, but don't worry, because there will be elections very soon, which is why panic catches you. You've made a lot of noises in crime and corruption, so you're now quoting what the MPs of the SRS said a few years ago. This government reminds the SRS of a wormy apple. The worm apple doesn't wait for the storm, it's the first breeze. Gentlemen of the DS, there's too many powerful SRS MPs compared to you. And I don't know what newspaper he's reading, the cabbage leaf, what he's reading, what newspapers, what books. You're panicking, gentlemen of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4510	Dr. Miletic Mihajlovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4511	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, of what Mr. Pivac said, I can only say again that by 2000 in the industrial zone in many cities and in the morning and after the end of the work of thousands of people came and went from work. Today, unfortunately, in some cities you can say, a rifle can fight and you can't see someone, figuratively speaking. As for Pogorets, it was then a powerful industry, of course, which was mutilated under sanctions internationally, which you have contributed in some way, but worked by the MiP factory, the meat industry most prospective in the country in the area, Fruits product, Stjezanka, Morava, Center for Agriculture, the best in the former Yugoslavia, Minel Kostolac, Ceba textile industry, final works, dairy, Zanatservis etc. Now let me ask you, where is your headquarters for eastern and central Serbia? Is it supposed to be in the firehouse, where the electricity is produced, or in Kragujevac? I'm sorry I have to build. I have nothing against Kragujevci. During Slobodan Milosevic and during the former government, some order was known and where it should be. In Petrovac, Mlava, we also have a mutilated economy and after 2000 we have empty factory circles without workers. "Borac", which was once an example in the area of agricultural production, which also had a bakery, and a colder, and a candid fruit factory, which won the best and greatest awards at the Novosad Fair, ran out of workers, with nothing, until after 2000. What kind of privatisation was made after 2000? That's the right answer to what you're talking about. As far as Slobodan Milosevic is concerned, I want to tell you that you and we from the Branič district and beyond, and all of Serbia, we will not have such a man who knew and knew how to defend the Serbian interests, the interests of our country and all that is man in Serbia. Thanks to Slobodan Milosevic Požerevac, he received a lot in infrastructure and in many areas. He is today, as dead, defending Serbia with what is Resolution 1244, he still contributes dead to the economy of the Fireman because rivers and many people are coming to visit his grave.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4512	Thank you, Comrade Mihaylovich. Replica, Mr. Valjarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for Mr. Pivc's replica. Let me just let him know, since he's not well informed, they seem to have received a little DSS syndrome, uninformed. When I was given confidence from my party to become an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, which is a great honor to me, I resigned to all functions that were in conflict of interest. You know for a fact that when I became director in 2004, when we entered the local government in the municipality of Pogorec, the only one of the directors resigned as a councilman. Therefore, you can check in the municipality of Pogorec that I also resigned as a member of the Municipal Council. However, since the Assembly was scheduled on June 14th, we only then verified the mandate of a new member of the Municipal Council, and I had already resigned, which was also listed in the office. Otherwise, let's go back a little bit to the Fireman Municipality about employment. In the Serbian Radical Party programme, one of the main things is to recruit Serbian citizens again, as millions of citizens are out of work throughout Serbia. A fireman, as my colleague before me has already said from the Socialist Party, was once a powerful industrial city. However, after October 5th, one privatisation came, so I will remind you, Mr. Pivac, that the Center for Agriculture bought the best man Zoran Djindjic, that after that the company was closed and today is not working. And the privatisations carried out under the old law, when Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic was, is one of these and the company "Bambi" from Pogorec, is now the most successful projector firm in the Balkans and beyond. The construction company Stig, which was also privatised under the old law at the same time, when Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic was minister, and day and day works and employs 500 workers. They're the only workers, Mr. Pivac, going to work in the fireman's industrial zone for your notice. Otherwise, as far as employment is concerned, Serbian radicals in the municipality of Pogorec do not have any employees. No one lost their job to hire me. Otherwise, in public enterprises, as confirmed by members of your party and all other parties from the democratic bloc, they voted that the Public municipal enterprise was the best company in the municipality of Pogorec for 2006, where I am proud that more than 40 people were employed, but not parties, but people were employed for needs because we lived through the business's performance. As you know, and now we're preparing new projects and we're expanding, and I'm proud that maybe 30 to 40 more people will be hired. That is the task I received from the SRS as its member, to implement the Serbian Radical Party's policy. So much for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4514	Thank you, Mr. Valyarevic. Suleiman Spaho, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4515	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the 26th. I would refer to an event that took place in Bačka Petrovac, and ask the authorities why no one answered, and this is about a ruthless event, where Muslim extremists, bandits, attacked the ruler of Christomon. And the name of all the decent Muslims, the honest ones, I apologize for what happened when one of the authorities didn't do it. I don't see any brothers here by faith, who were supposed to come out immediately and condemn this unkind event. If it had been the opposite, I think this session would have lasted all day, allegedly from harassing some other national minorities. So, Mr. Vice President, please explain to me why no one has reported this unkind event?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4516	Thank you, Mr. Spaho. I'll try again while I'm in office. Mr. Milan Avramović, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Arsic, by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I am reporting under Article 225 that a fellow member of the Democratic Party of Kučev, I do not know the name and name, I apologize, I give some more information about the active functioning of the Democratic Party in locals, more specifically in local areas where they are in power. I am an MP from the Sava Venac municipality, where the Democratic Party has been in power since 2000. We'll start chronologically. So, there was DOS, so before 2000, the same set went to DOS, so the DOS moved from the Democratic Party to the Democratic Party, so when the local elections were held in 2004, the Democratic Party took power in the Sava Venac municipality almost on its own, so because of some pre-election agreements it entered into a coalition with the Democratic Party of Serbia, which still works the way it works today. So there are six local communities in the Sava Venac municipality. In all six local communities, the premises are given to the project bureaus. I'll give you some details later that the president of the municipality is an architect. So don't give us the data and the facts of who hired whom. Come to the Municipality of Sava Venac, since you invited us to come to your house, come to the Municipality of Sava Venac, it is your house, where you have been in power for almost seven years. See what the Lučić family does, see what the family of the president of the municipality does, see what the company of the president of the municipality is doing, see how many architectural solutions have been made only in the Municipality of Savski Venac while in it is the head of the municipality, which is the profession of architects. Look at how many officers there were before 2000, and how many employees there are today. Although systematicisation or rationalisation of jobs was carried out in all local self-governments, including in this one, people who worked there for 20 and 30 years were fired, and labour contracts were received by people from the DS. You have an example that DS's Technical Secretary, the Sava Wreath Municipal Committee, is employed in the local community. You have an example that a member of the DS Municipal Committee, the Sava Wreath, is employed in the local community. You want me to list names and names? You have an example of the tenant of the DS, who is sponsor of the Municipal Committee, becoming advisor to the president of the municipality, so that he can hire his wife. Don't give us any information like we don't know what you're doing. First you have to look in your backyard, in your own house, and go out into someone else's yard or on the street, not even invite us to get to know each other better. The second thing, when the SRS committees at the Sava Venec municipality began to control the work of that administration, since it was not possible before and it was not allowed, we got the answer in a simple and simple way. The physical application of democracy on the SRS boards has begun. I'll remind you that personally, as head of the SRS parliamentary group in the Sava Venac municipality, I was waited and brutally beaten in front of the municipality in the afternoon, when I went to a meeting with the president of the community union. For what reason? Is that the democracy you're conducting? Is that the principle and way of doing what you're doing and putting us on the line that we're like and like, we hired this guy or that guy? Look at yourself first and then look at the others. Look at the commitments you've made in the election campaigns, when you're already collecting quotes from newspapers, see what you've done only in the local environments in downtown Belgrade, where you're in power. About the employees, about the height of the receipt. The president of the Sava Venac municipality today has six advisors who receive a salary at the height of the head of a department. The trio is closed, that the chiefs of the department are people of trust and candidates of the DS; about school boards, about boards of directors, and all the other things I won't even talk about, it's pointless. It's natural for one party to help their membership, but in this way, to fire people who have been working for 30 years because of systematicisation or because of a different opinion, and to hire a kid who has nothing to do with the profession or the job internship, to receive a salary at the head of the department. And all the financial flows through one municipality that they have the same people on one central municipality is a living shame. I'm warning you one more time, get into your house, after you've invited us there, see what the situation is, and then go out to your neighbor's yard.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4518	Mr. Damjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Arsic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4519	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've heard a lot of things here that are both principled and non, but I have to say some things and this assembly needs to know some information. For many years I worked in Rovinj, in Lim Channel, where I was a businessman, I had my own hotel and the largest souvenir shops in Europe. In 91, there was a brother-in-law war, and I returned to my Earth, where I was born. I had a lot of problems there. I was even on the list to get shot. I went back to Zemun where I was born and started working as a businessman. I was appointed by the SRS in 1997 as Roma, the world's first Roma elected to the government of the Republic of Serbia as minister. I have worked in all areas in principle, which is the interest of the state, normally of our people and the Roma community, because they expected a lot from the minister. There's been a shift in 2000, which I think is normal, and no one is anymore, and neither are we going to live forever, and so the government is not majority. The DS came to power, so-called. DOS, which I welcome and respect for anyone who comes by the will of the people to power, is to be respected, by authority in the local and state administration. Something happened from DS, I experienced it in Croatia. That's where they broke down, kidnapped me, stayed alive and came back here. The DS came out of pure peace, the DOS party in So Zemun, where it was headed by Vlad Janicjevic, the president, who is my personal friend, and I have a hotel that I built in 1991, and because of everything that happened, I couldn't finish any further. I just came from bulldozers, I was at an international conference, I'm talking about the state, when I came back, my house, the yard building, destroyed. They came to bulldozers, and it was so brutally destroyed that it was terrible. I remembered Croatia right away. But that's not all he cares about. Is it necessary for someone to take revenge on me for being a Roma, for being a member of the SRS and for being a minister in the SRS? That to all Serbs and to this Serbia, I believe that our Serbia is a democratic state and that it should be every country's honor from a national minority, from local to state administrations, officials, like we were. The SRS, we have to say, which is evident, has the highest number of national minorities present, and that is democracy. I respect the other side, whether there is or not, I'm not getting into it. I want to tell you that I could not perform cultural events, otherwise I am the president of the Roma Serb Union, where I was elected to 65 cities of this country, a legitimate man in my community. We have one-year events in Zemun. It's the World Day of Roma and the King's Roma music. What did I come across? He can't, there's no room, busy. I helped perform a cultural event for the fighters, then it was fine. But when I asked to maintain those manifestations, it wasn't right. I can tell you that no one wanted to see me in the community halls. As democratic power came, I respect democratic authority and I think not all Serbs as individuals, they told me -- that, Jovo, is politics. No matter what policy it is, there can be no retaliatory action against the national minority, no retaliatory action can be made against the party I belong to. That's terrible. I believe this is a democratic Serbia, a democratic state, where we are the most populated Roma of the countries in the environment. And you know why? Because the Serbian state is democratic and has accepted all national minorities in its country. That's where we integrate, we have our own houses, our families. But that's not what you care about. Roma television, it's a great honor, and I had guests on Roma TV all political parties, both DOS and DOS. Come Jelena Guskova, she's a political strategist for Eastern Europe. She said this - you Damjanovic in Serbia and Serbia run three steps ahead of Europe when it comes to democracy. I said thank you very much, but you want to tell us how. There is no Roma television in Europe, and there are three TVs in Serbia, which is real democracy, which Europe does not have. Please, what's going on, DOS abolishes, I think DOS, the Democratic Party, and they're in power and they're shutting down all the Roma television. That's terrible. I was now at an international meeting, where they were representatives of the state, and I speak for our country, I spoke for the Assembly, I welcomed there on behalf of the Assembly, on behalf of Serbia, but when they ask me for television what to say. Democracy must not be stopped in Serbia, democracy must be implemented and spread. All the methods I have said and appeared, it is choking democracy in Serbia. There is no one's right to stifle democracy, and we are in this Parliament, in this house, precisely implementing democracy in all directions and towards all the peoples and peoples who live in this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4520	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. Mr. Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4521	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't mind the MPs coming out for this pay phone and giving their views, but I don't want some of them to raise their price. Honestly, I don't believe you lost your job, my colleague, because of your political belonging to the DS. I guess it's something else, something called working discipline. You mentioned the So Dog building and you said she was mortgaged. Yes, you're right, you just didn't mention that, while DOS was in power in Kučev, from 2001 to 2003, that building was reconstructed under the Public Procurement Act by nine million and the real amount was over twenty. Who was the contractor? The contractor was Voja Paunovic, the last president of SO Kučevo from JUL, now a member of G17. From that pair, sir, he made a mill on his way into Kučevo. Of these pairs, he fenced the Peck River and caused floods in 2004 and 2005. Yes, they have records of the Republic Water Control. You say - roads are paved through Kučev, so the SRS's boards are paved. It is true and it is not true. Yes, it's paved to everyone, including the SRS, as well as your committees, because more roads have been paved over the last two and a half years than in the last 10 years, which you or some of the others have been in power before you. One more thing, sir, one fact, which is that only in 2003 did you spend on the name of the national team as much as it costs the bridge at the current prices at the Unresnica. At the time, the director of the Department for the Construction of "Kučevo", a certain Mica Dim, is his nickname, director of the Directorate, now a tax administration worker in Kučev, his wife's company owes millions of dollars in the name of an unpaid tax and a criminal procedure is being conducted for abuse of official office. That's what you were when you were in power. There's been more reports written than the authorities of local self-government, criminal charges, no one's handling the prosecution, I don't know why, when we're in power, we from the SRS will find out why, you'll be convinced of that. If you were good at power, your opponent in the second round wouldn't have won with a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4522	Mr Milanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure and Mr Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: you just said Zivanovic was after him.) I was wrong, I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Here's Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4523	Dear Chairman, I apologize first to the president of our parliamentary group for entering such a replica, but I must, for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for those who voted for the DS, who won the parliamentary elections this year in the municipality of Kučevo. I've been president of the DS Municipal Committee since 2004. Everything Mr. Arsic said isn't true. If someone had been prosecuted, they were political, those people would be in prison. The whole campaign for those local elections was -- hold the thieves. Since the graphite writing, from the flyers, that's what the campaign looked like, it was awful dirty by the radicals in Kučev and we felt it on our skin. I got fired because I'm president of the DS Municipal Committee, not because of discipline. I'll let you look at my solution, and you'll see. I wasn't stealing. I come from an honest family, so you can't call us, and that's why I went out for a pay phone today, because you keep calling DS members and MPs all the time. The second thing, about the municipality of Kučevo, you have now challenged me to say some more things, it is very interesting that the president of the SRS Municipal Committee, when set up, is the first thing he did to hire his wife in the municipality. She works at the entrance to the municipality administration of Kučevo. You know what he's doing? She's just showing-- this is door number 18, number 17, number 16, and that's her job. The deputy chairman of the SRS Municipal Committee hired his wife in the library. Just so you know, there are only 100 and six library workers in the municipality of Kučevo, all of them from the SRS. There's no one from the DS on the boards. There's no one in the opposition in the congregation's bodies. They're just radicals everywhere and everywhere. Another thing, as far as these many roads are concerned, you boast the roads that the Road Directorate has done, and I'll tell you, the road has been paved to the Director of the Construction Directorate of the Municipality of Kučevo, which is from the SRS. As for the Democrats, when you cleaned the snow last winter, in the village of Cerovica, where the Democrats hold the council, you did not clear the snow. Let's not talk about thefts. We'll beat you in the local elections next, and then you'll see who stole in the municipality of Kučevo.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4524	Thank you, Mr. Milovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, Mr. Zivanovic, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came out not because I know exactly every detail of how much someone from the DS stole money from the House, whether it was Mica Dim or someone else. I don't know who Mica Dim is, she's got a graphic nickname, to tell me - Mica Dim would immediately think she's from DS, I don't know why. I went out for something else. For the second day in a row, we have been listening from the DS MPs to tell us here -- we don't like Democrats, and then they say the most difficult and the most corrupt possible sentences from this particular pay phone. I don't mind if you say whatever you want, the hardest words to use, but to contain that corruption a little bit, like we're very nice, we won't, and then we're going to say the scariest words, the most terrible lies, or it doesn't matter what, but, well, we have an excuse because we're Democrats, we can do anything. When I said earlier, you didn't get me wrong, about Mr. Dim, it's the same as Mr. Keks, but I hear there was a problem with Mr. Keks, since Mr. Keks didn't get the right job he arranged with DS representatives in Leskovac, so now Mr. Keks is after Leskovac. So they even managed to trick Mr. Keeks, and so it seems that Mr. Dim has passed. Who knows what's gonna happen when it comes to DS? I didn't understand what you were up against about the boards of directors, and I don't know what. Is that what you're talking about? She's an employee of a woman, and you say that to someone's wife, who works, I don't know, works and shows where they're going to get into the door, and she has a salary of 20,000, 40,000 dinars. There's something I need to tell you. I know some of yours. Not some of yours, but almost all of your family members, friends here in Belgrade who don't do anything, because they're embarrassed to show anyone any door, and they're stealing 40 million, man, not getting a salary of 40,000 and working hard for that salary. How can you not be ashamed? The only thing they do is know someone from the DS. And then, as much as it's going to be, so much commission goes to the tub of DS. Everyone in this town knows exactly three lawyers to go to, who tell them what's the tariff for which the city's official, and there's not one, you're not going to approach without 10,000 euros. There used to be, when the SPO was in charge, it was known that you could get to that in the City Construction Directorate or whatever the exact name was, that's 10,000 marks, for this second, it could have been three to five thousand. You don't have 10,000 euros to come to, anything to be done and anything to be done. The problem is, there's a woman working somewhere. You'd like to fire all radicals. I remind you, you came to power, you fired a pregnant woman, today the late former president of the Serbian Radical Party City Committee, Dragan Ljubojevic, worked in the Serbian government. You fired a woman in the eighth month of pregnancy, in the eighth month of pregnancy she worked in the Serbian government, because you knew that her husband was in the Serbian Radical Party. Excuse me, if anyone ever asks me, I would never fire anyone from the Democratic Party who is eight months pregnant, not in the first month of pregnancy, just because his husband or wife is in any party, even in yours. I have to tell you, it's not a good manners, as someone told you, look in your yard and everyone together to look at where and how problems to solve, I'm sure things aren't black and white, I'm sure that each of us is making mistakes, but what I'm quite confident about is that absolutely the biggest and most unbearable corruption and crime in the Belgrade administration. Let me remind you, go to Autocommand today. One of the representatives of the Greek bank told me, which I happen to know, because it's from the European Union, because you respect them when they take away Kosovo and Metohija, he told me, in Thessaloniki or Athens, you'd have a million people on the street to do this to them. Four times you've raised sidewalks and wonders on AutoCommand, you've worked, the works have totaled about 10.5 - 11m euros, that no one knows alive what you've been doing. Four times in two and a half years, because you're not able to do any capital project, nothing big for the citizens, because you don't think about the people, about the citizens. There's nothing from a bridge across ade gypsies. From the bridge over the Danube that goes between Zemun and Borche, there's nothing. There's nothing left of anything, only commissions full of pockets. That's what you have to talk about. It's got to be said, so people, that's millions of euros. It's not whether his wife works or his wife doesn't work, let him work, let everyone's wife or everyone's husband work somewhere, let all people be employed. Let the people not be thieves, so there are no thefts and millions of euros. Thank you to those who will eradicate it, Mr. Mrkonjic, thank the citizens of Serbia for not being able to endure such corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4526	Thank you. Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4527	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as the citizens of Serbia see themselves, are the only active members of the Serbian Radical Party in this House today. We see from this left-hand side how it works and how the parliamentary group of this DOS-Mali coalition works. I'll go back to the agenda, where we started to talk and define, as the minister said, who's not there right now, seems to be a girl for everyone, we all know he's a good girl, but I can see he's not here at today's session. You'd probably answer my question. Ali. If we come back from 2000 we see that you want to, that is to say, agree everything at local level so that it is in line with the European Union. I don't think you're going to be able to cover it all, because if we look at this list and the proposal for candidates for members of the government and the new open government, and if we look at each and every one of them and look at the biography and the seven-year work of many of you, I think you're going to think deeply. It'll all be under one veil of secrets. I'll turn around to show you the right example, that's Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic. He was the president of the municipality for four years in Šapec. After that, he was no longer allowed to run for office, he probably needed all his leads, because if I told any leads the chairman would immediately warn me, he should have covered them. Many of the abuses were then followed, so the abuses in Capco, even after him, are now current and active. So it's just that if we look at the privatization of all the shaba companies, we'll see how many of these huge abuses have been and how many of those companies and those workers are driving around in the courts today, so they'll end up being told, here, so we'll see, everything depends on the hearing, whether it's past time, or that the case gets old, or any other methods and methodologies to prevent it in some way. And to say, the political tycoons and the tycoons who rule the Sabbath community today, I have to tell you, they're in key places, because like this country, they're being held by the mob, so I have to tell you, the municipal government in Capco is holding the mob. Here, look, she's probably there in every city, it's the construction mob. These tycoons are buying, in areas within the city, where the current premises are, so they can build themselves or apartments or facilities where they can sell to certain buyers tomorrow. This is happening today in Šapec, where many companies are illegal, i.e. these construction facilities are illegal, and apartments are sold. I wonder how and how it is possible, and I believe it is the same in other cities across Serbia, especially where DOS was in power. If we go back again and we see, here's the former privatisation minister, the man who's in many transactions, the yellow shops, and if he belongs to this yellow Corps, he's been involved in a lot of embarrassing affairs. Also, what I would also point out, here is the current Agriculture Minister, Slobodan Milosavljevic, the man who was president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who was also connected with many affairs, but because he was such, you gave him a gift to be the minister of agriculture, one of the most attractive and most difficult branches in Serbia today. Here, behind me, there will probably be an MP from the Democratic Party who is from Capca, who is also bound by many affairs, about buying an apartment, and by coming to these sessions and all that's negative, but she'll probably go out for this pay phone so she can say a lot about herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4528	Thank you. Mrs. Lovrina, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4529	Dear fellow Members of the People, I am Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic, MP of the Democratic Party, and I come from Capca. The Democratic Authority is in Sapac from 2000 to 2007. She's done a lot of things for years. When we came to power in 2000, the first budget for 2001 was 250 million dinars. The budget of the Sabac municipality for 2007 is 2,900,000 dinars. It's not much, you'll agree with me, I think it can be bigger, but it's certainly proof that it's working in our community. So it certainly doesn't mean, as Mr. Zivanovic said, that these are bad privatisations, that these are businesses that don't work. On the contrary, in the town of Shabbac it is done. That proves this budget, too. I ask you, the chairman, to calm down Mrs. Veronica Radet, who throws away all the time and behaves very rudely. So the democratic government in the Sabac municipality is doing very well. We showed it in the 2000 elections, in the 2004 elections, and so it will be, I am absolutely sure, and in these local elections, where the Democratic Party will win, as it has won the previous local elections. As for my previous speaker, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, I must point out that the SRS in Šapac, or the SRS parliamentary group, is hardly there. After the 2004 local elections, they started with 11 council members. Today there are only two of them, and who is and what is the Serbian Radical Party, its representatives prove at every turn. I will talk about my predecessor, Srboljub Zivanovic, the man who paid the debt for municipal services only after he was sad, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, whose electricity consumption is zero. So Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic was charged with stealing electricity. That's right, because of the power. Serbian radicals, who care about Serbian citizens, steal electricity. Serbian radicals who care about Serbian citizens do not pay bills. Now, gentlemen, these are Serbian radicals. That's what Serbian citizens know. That is why Serbian radicals will never come to power in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4530	Mr. Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rakovac, according to the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4531	Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised by my colleague from Kučev, when he says, when we come to power, you'll see who's a thief. Well, man, do you know what you're saying? You're in power, man. You have the police, you have the prosecution, you have the courts, so you arrest the thieves. Don't look at which parties they're from. It's just, it looks like you'll have to arrest yours first. Here's what it looks like: in the Democratic Party, whatever man is a bigger thief, he's making more progress. Here, we see - Mica Dim, they say he owes 15 million to 18 million dinars of taxes. He was director of the Directorate, he was a tax worker, now a man is promoted. He was promoted to Director of the Republic Tax Administration in Kučev. That's how you arrest thieves. Do you have any more right to arrest anyone, that thief who steals a chicken, an egg, or anything else? Well, you don't. First, lustrate yourself, as you like to use that word. Next, when it comes to your famous victory in the parliamentary elections, say it all the way. Fifty votes and one and the other political parties over the average of the Republic of Serbia. But, sir, you forgot to say that the former president of the Kucevo Municipality's Executive Council, Branko Jankovic, is the deputy director of the National Office. Well, they are not the people of Kučev, there is no stable you have not led to, and Gilas, and Tadic, to visit. There aren't any calves you haven't anointed. Although, some of them don't even know what they were doing, but they know they were somewhere, at least they're hoping. You've been campaigning people's money by giving computers to schools, etc. As much as you've invested in that campaign, it's a shame to win 50 votes, a shame. One more thing, it's not your victory over the Serbian Radical Party. It's more of a victory over your coalition partners, because we kept the same number of votes. You've collected from G17, from the DSS, from this, from that one and made votes. That's your victory. And about your results, when I started that crime story and the thieves, someone's stealing big, that's that Mica Dim, and you have those eggs that steal your change, that's your former president of the community. Now, he stole the kids from the school crep, put it in a community place, made a contract as if he had invested it himself and made a 25-year lease on his own from the municipality. He couldn't be the director because he's a small-time spit fish, a little thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4532	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. There is a word according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rakovac, and Mr. Zivanovic, then Mr. Milovanovic, and Mr. Milivojevic, all of them according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4533	Mr. Vice President, I'm advocating Article 103(1). The Rules of Procedure, which he says - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I would remind you that we are in the Serbian Parliament, we are neither in the municipality nor in the municipality of Sabac, or in Kučevo, or in Pogorec, or in Jagodin, or in any other assembly of the municipality. You know, there used to be a theater on the left in this country, which had three minutes of drama in four acts, which were called "cleibesable," and these replicas remind me of it. Because the replica lasts for three minutes and in three minutes everyone wants to act here, you understand, very funny people, and to bring out dirty laundry about their opponents, which I think degrades this congregation and this home. I think you should prevent further discussions like this, give a break, keep your heads a little cold and get back to the agenda. There are no municipalities in Serbia on the agenda today, the European Charter of Local Self-Government is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4534	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Zivanovic, Mr. Milovanovic, and Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4535	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am surprised that the director of the public utility company, Mrs. Daniela Lovrin, whose husband and deputy municipal public prosecutor, is too much to ask, because there are 12 council members in Šapec, and of the 12 there are seven council members left, and I must tell you, in the previous parliamentary elections, the strongest political party, which won the most votes, is just the Serbian Radical Party - 32.6%, and the Democrats had 26.7%. Then you can see who will win the next local election in the Sabbath municipality, because it burned everyone to their feet and toenails. They're full of all the yellow promises and yellow glue to which the citizens are supposed to stick these seven years. As for everything the lady tried to discredit my personality and, most importantly, the cheek of the Serbian Radical Party, couldn't and couldn't because the judgments that are now present came to my favor. I never sued anyone, but I had to sue them to prove my innocence and my honesty. I certainly wouldn't be in this political party where I find myself today not to be adorned by honesty, not to be adorned by what every time we go out behind a pay phone, we bring it to the citizens of Serbia, or to the citizens of our municipality. I also have to say she's gone, and she hasn't answered the question of how she's using an official car, how she's using all those benefits she's using today as a public firm director. She did not give them up, but she still uses them and comes by car to the congregation meetings. Probably, I have to tell you, she and her own sister, who is also the director of a public firm for construction land in Šapec, that they were the two main feathers of Dusan Petrovic, because they were the ones who forged the election results in 2000, and in 2003, because the sisters were born in the election commission. So now you see how it's done in Capco today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4536	Thank you, Mr. Zivanovic. Mr. Milovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4537	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, and I'm not answering again. I will report for the laws, but all I have to do is answer some things to Veroljub Arsic, not just him, all the MPs present, the citizens of the municipality of Kučevo who voted for the Democratic Party. Mr. Mica Stojadinovic, called Dim, is not a member of the Democratic Party, he is a member of the Vlaska Democratic Party of Serbia. As for the former president of the municipality of Kučevo, it was such a hick on that man during the election campaign, but unfortunately all criminal charges were rejected and none of it is. The second thing, which is related to these charges and to ToKex Dim and the rest, the nickname of the president of the municipality of Kučevo is De Niro, Al Capone, and the company is called De Niro. So that's what Al Capone said about the behavior of the president of the Kochevo municipality. The president of the municipality of Kučevo has his own private construction company and workers at the construction company in the morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4538	I ask the messengers to be worthy. Excuse me, Mr. Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4539	In the morning they work at the municipal administration, and in the afternoon at his firm. All the projects for bridges, roads and other projects for De Niro, of course. And now this job is done by his brother, because he can no longer by the Law of Conflict of Interest, which is why we call him Al Capone in Kučev, out of mercy. A few more information related to the municipality of Kučevo, before you come to the municipality of Kučevo, because you have to see that miracle, there is nowhere in the world, there is no in Belgrade, there is no in Vojvodina, of course, there is nowhere, it is specific to my hometown. All that has been done, so the municipality of Kučevo is currently in great debt, and it is justified that the Democratic Party is afraid that after winning the next elections we will be in serious trouble as we return all these debts. And this borrowing of the municipality and everything else that's been done. In Kučev, red squares are made, some Chinese, whatever they are, nothing else is done, and citizens drink unquality water. And as for the Peka River, the problem is quite another, the problem is not maintaining the riverbed, not in the sense that Mr. Borislav Paunovic did something there that was not required under the law. After all, I have a record and can show every MP present in the O.R. about everything that has happened in the municipality of Kučevo since the arrival of the SRS to power. But don't worry, the citizens of the municipality of Kučevo, the next election will be won by the Democratic Party and will get you out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4540	Thank you, Mr. Milovanovic. The word is Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Rakovic, then Mr. Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Not Mr. Rakovac, he's giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, if someone had told me that I would see such enthusiasm among the MPs of the SRS on the mention of Al Capone, I would not have believed it. Indeed, such excitement is likely to bring back memories of old times and nostalgic times. I don't know why you call people here who aren't in the O.R., and Mr. Mica Struja is here in the O.R., and the whole of Serbia just had a chance to see Mr. Struju, I don't know why they call him "Truja," as far as I know, Nikola Tesla invented electricity, and I don't know why they call him "electricity," he's probably having some electricity problems. But when we talk about other things and other times, we heard, so thank God, Mr. Nikolic, that with us, the measure of intelligence is not measured by the unit of Tom, we have no one like you and we're proud of it. So, I just want to say a few things.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4542	Please, just no offense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4543	I just want to say a few things from this pay phone. We have a very important charter on the agenda today, and I would really like to return the debate to the agenda. I am sorry that certain MPs from the SRS do not understand this discussion and I do not understand why they react so badly, and I do not understand why they do not want to participate in this debate in a civilized and democratic way, to make their arguments and to say why this charter is not good for Serbia or why it is good, and why they use this debate for debate at the level of the municipal assembly. When we took over the institution of Parliament's president, Mr Oliver Dulic promised to try to build this institution to serve again on Serbian citizens' pride and restore the confidence of Serbian citizens in this institution. Such replicas and discussions do not build that trust anyway. We just heard crying about a woman who's pregnant, and I'm very sorry about every woman who's pregnant, and she's out of a job. But I am much more sorry for those pregnant women who were forced to eat the "Resistance" flyer in Sapac in 2000, and there was no Resistance or Democratic Party in power at that time. There are data, Mr. Todorovic, I will personally bring you a photo of this woman and the record from the police station. Then you were in power in this country, then you were performing the most responsible places in this country, then you had ministerial seats, and then you didn't resign when pregnant women, next to the slappers, were forced to eat the resistance fly. This is about your democracy, your concern for pregnant women, your contribution to the development of Natalie in Serbia. I know you're in pain the truth, it knows that it offends, it knows to guess, the truth is much more insulting, and I'm sorry that the truth is so insulting to you, that such an effect, Mr. Nikolic, is making you the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4544	Let the messenger know what he thinks.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4545	I really want to return the discussion to a normal track, to remind only what the town of Shabac looked like in 2000 and to say, there will not be a criterion here for one who has stronger muscles, who curses better, who spits better, but for one who knows the language of arguments and for the fact that he opposes the language of hoarding and primitiveism. On behalf of the Democratic Party today, we show that we know. I ask the Democratic Party's MPs not to participate in such terrestrial debates and to show only by the power of the arguments why the Democratic Party considers this charter to be necessary to Serbia and why Serbia must go to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4546	Thank you. Mr. Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Todorovic. Although I've already given my word to Mr. Arsic. You'll make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised you didn't warn the previous speaker, Mr. Mr. Gristle.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4548	Excuse me, excuse me, please, in the heat of the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4549	I don't have a problem with that. I'm counting on him to deserve a warning that he's even decent and that anyone decent expects something from him. Otherwise, we only hear from MPs from the Democratic Party about decency, but they are absolutely the most rude in the entire assembly. I have not seen any MPs from any other political party show that he is as rude as the Democratic Party MPs showed today, today and yesterday. Let's talk about something here, that Nikola Tesla invented electricity, as my predecessor and others said. I really can't talk about it. This shows the intellectual capacity of the Democratic Party and how much you from the Democratic Party have no idea what you're talking about. Is this the Europe you're telling us about, is this a Europe where you don't even know what Nikola Tesla invented, or what someone else invented, or what Edison invented, or what Michael Pupin invented or anyone else in this country or any other country. Guys, do you really not know these elemental things? Then you teach us a lesson here about it, let's break it up, because you have no idea you're like that, and it's waiting for us to go to Europe. Is that Europe? Excuse me, if this is the Europe you stand for, in which each of your directors, each of your city ministers will weigh about 10, 15 and 50 million euros, and you speak to the people, we go to Europe, because we have money to buy half of Europe, and these peoples carry the flag behind us and live more and more miserablely, and we will live, by the way, and what little you have left to rob through various cementists and everything else. Take care, I don't know how you can prevent, no matter how you rule, from Kolesar speaking. I hear he decided to talk, tell him who ordered everything about the cement company and who he bought the apartments for. Sixty-five apartments, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I have to tell you that I got information that he's going to talk and he's going to tell him who told him from the top of the DS that he's doing it in such a way as to say these Europeans "top of the top", it's that one, and some other Europeans would say "capo di tutti capi". That one was responsible, but you'll soon learn it from members of your party, otherwise the chief of staff once the president of your government and everything else. I don't have any problem with that. In the meantime, I will prepare the book "thousands of why" and "words of who it is", and I will bring it to DS MPs, to find out something about Nikola Tesla, to find out about other Serbian giants as well. It will be good and much better for both Serbia and our citizens, and I hope that you will no longer embarrass us and muddy Serbia's reputation, not even in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4550	Mr. Todorovic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Arsic, then Mr. Duvnjak. He's giving up Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4551	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've had a chance to see and hear a man who's passed a certain school. A certain school was organized by Americans, an entire network, named it, a fascist sign in the form of a tight fist and all the methods of breaking one state. The organization was called "Resistance" and the previous speaker was one of the most visible members. These are people who worked directly against the interests of their own state, learned how to lie, to deceive Serbian citizens, to bring down power. When they came to power, they set out to carry her out on their own. We've been pointing to this since 2001. In April, "DOS is the worst". As they ruled, you have the opportunity to see now in confessions of certain ministers, cabinet heads, director of the Public Bureau or whatever it was called - Baby Popovic, to see how the Surcins, Zemunci, of Chumet, and in turn, walked around the government, ordering ministers what to do, who to arrest, whom to arrest, whom to let out of prison, who to visit in prison, in all order. You had the opportunity to see how the Prime Minister co-operated with both the Zemun and the Surcinians, which is why the Rebellion Unit was resolved as it was resolved and that today there is no single dilemma and doubts whether the largest scum from Serbia came to power in 2000, the biggest scum. Those who have destroyed Serbia, and that is what Serbian citizens recognise. You've been in power for seven years. I call you again, whom you are from the SRS, whom you have caught in crime, which is, either in power or in your own business. And you, among other things, have been found to poison your own citizens with the redesigns you sell them in the form of burgers and some other foods. You've avoided legal responsibility just because you're a member of the DS. And you tell anyone or anything. You can say whatever you want, but the citizens of Serbia can't lie anymore. They're completely clear. And there's one thing I really need to point you at. Look at the election results since 2003, and I guess everything needs to be made clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4552	Mr. Arsic, then Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4553	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for us whose intelligence is measured by atoms, Robert De Niro is an actor. I don't know what it has to do with the mob. A man does one job. The claim for Mic Dima that he is not a member of the DS, but the Vlach Democratic Party, that it is not the same, is quite funny. And Ziva Lazic, in the Great City, is the same from Vlaska Democratic Party, so he was a candidate for MPs in these same elections. What's the problem? The problem is that you don't know how to fool the electorate anymore, so you're making up some sort of Vlach of the democratic party, the Roma democratic party, etc. That's your problem. When you mentioned the debts of the Municipality of Kučevo, ever since the SRS was in power in that municipality we had to pay a considerable amount for the workers you fired, and they got the municipality in court. The last verdict is against a certain Toza mafia, but we haven't given him that nickname, nor has he ever been with us, and you tried to trick this Toza mafia, so he sued the municipality of Kučevo, and now he has to pay the municipality of Kučevo for your mistakes, 23 million dinars. When it comes to Požarec, another example, the chairman of the Management Board of the "The Word of the People", Dragana Deuric, fired the editor-in-chief, it is the job of the director. The town of Povorec had to pay three million damages to the fired worker. Not to list so many and so many examples of what was going on and how you were in charge of the municipalities. It is true that the municipality of Kučevo is in charge of 50 million dinars. It is true that the budget is close to 300 million dinars, that these funds are defined for investments, because if you look at the budget of the municipality of Kučevo you will see that 70% of the budget is in investments. And that story about Zoran Milekic De Niro being a mobster doesn't stand, because with that nickname he went to the polls and the citizens estimated who should run the municipality. It's not true that he was charging for bridge projects. His firm did it for free as a donor. And as for the works and contractors, you have under your control the Republic Public Procurement Agency, so those who were in the process should object to that agency and question it if they can. The thing is, it's almost impossible, because all the works that were done in the municipality of Kučevo are far below the republican average at the price. Maybe it bothers you that there's a lot we can do with a little money.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4554	Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, I hope that we will return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4555	So, Mr. Todorovic, because of your discussion, I answered your question. I'm very proud to have some school, as much as my parents could at the time of the crisis to afford me, and I tried to finish. I graduated from the basic school "Jovan Popović" in Kruševec, then the Kruševci High School, which was completed by the late Čkalja, and Taško Načić and many other prominent Kruševljani. And look at the wonders, then I entered the Faculty of Agriculture, the direction of cattle farming, so thank Lord God, and there I learned something, and also graduated, so I can deal with you equally, because I have some schools and some professions, which, thanks to my parents, has made it possible for me. And unfortunately, I couldn't go to the specials in America, I couldn't even master, I couldn't doctor, because somehow you came to power, and I couldn't even go to Segedin, because you took my passport back in '98, afraid I might go somewhere, and there you were worried, when I went there, what I was going to do there. I can only do the following, Mr. Todorovic: during the DS government, no piece of the country of Serbia has been sold out, no NATO flag has been stabbed anywhere, no child has been expelled from its hearth, no column of refugees has gone anywhere. So when a column of refugees started somewhere in June 99th from Kosovo, no one stopped them at Novi Pazar and told them where you were going, cattle, to put them in camp in Raska. I can read you what these people say when they left in '99, when you were in power, what they experienced. But it's not a topic, I'll save it for that debate about Kosovo and Metohija. I would like, indeed, if I were to get that book "1000 why 1000 therefore", here, I ask you to write to me what Serbian borders were when you came to power, where all the Serbian flag, where the Serbian bells of Orthodox temples were heard, where all Sundays served liturgy, I would like to see where the Serbs gathered, where the cars were played, over. where there was harvest and to see today whose sheep feed there after your authority. If you're asking me if I'm guilty, it's my fault, Mr. Todorovic, that I'm someone, not anybody. And I am guilty, Mr. Todorovic, of being a Orthodox Christian during your rule, of being an Orthodox Christian, and of going to the Orthodox church and getting baptized with three fingers, and believing in this coat of arms with a crown, and not in the coat of arms with a five-pointer, which you so warmly supported during your reign. And I'm guilty, Mr. Todorovic, which I am, for you, I shouldn't have. And it's my fault that in front of you, along with the people of the Resistance, I stood upright and looked into the sky, not the grass, and that I believed in this starry sky and moral law within myself. I'm guilty of getting up against guilt, and here I am, guilty and sinful of standing in front of you right now and saying that I exist, and that, in your opinion, I don't exist. And I am guilty of living in a country of Serbia and I believe, I have this Christian faith, an unwavering faith, that every force and injustice come to an end, and thanks to the "Resistance", I believe that justice and truth always win. You know, I believe 914 and 918, when the Serbs started, in 915, to transfer across Albania, my grandfather there got a French rifle, and a French canteen, and a French medal, but he was a Serbian patriot and not a French mercenary, because he got it to fight those who don't love this country Serbia, like you. If you're asking me if I should admit because of you that I don't exist, here, I'll admit - we, "Resist," no longer exist, we're part of the DS. If you really don't want me to exist, I agree to be air, water, light, three elements that you need and need. But what you see in front of you, it's not me, it's my sterling image that you created. It's you on the inside and I on the outside. The moment I am a mirror, and in the mirror I see myself so reviled, wrinkled, hateful, then I will leave politics, Mr. Todorovic, but before that I will see your back, because I think that the time of such politicians, like you, in Serbia, has passed, that such associates SDB have long passed. I understand why you're afraid of lustration. I've had a chance to see your character and work in the SDB file, yes, Mr. Todorovic, as you've been formed, why you've been formed, I've read, you can read, I'll give you a book, it's written about you and your ideological creators. Mr. Todorovic, it looks like there's a lot of heat out there, I'm sorry, the air conditioning here is working well, don't go outside, it's very hot.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4556	Mr. Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't come out to answer anything, I came out to say something about what was really going on in Kosovo and Metohija, something about Serbian banners, and about who was going on. Since we hear about it all the time, NATO's banner, as far as I've seen, stabbed Dragan Sutanovac in Serbia, with all Boris Tadic. Is the official DS policy NATO entry or not? Yes, it is. Why are you ashamed of this policy? The SRS policy is absolutely against NATO. NATO has destroyed us, committed aggression against Serbia, killed our children, destroyed our bridges, NATO would tomorrow kidnap us entirely Kosovo and Metohija, as it partially succeeded in the 99th year, after 78 days of aggression, when part of military and political leadership accepted their proposal plan. I am happy and pleased that the SRS did not participate in this and I do not think it participated, but was against the plan, the only political party that was against the Kumanovo Agreement and against Ahtisaari's plan was the SRS at the level of Serbia as a whole. By the way, the DS sent a statement of support to both the Kumanovo Agreement and Ahtisaari's plan on the same day as Vuk Draskovic. It's about the truth and the facts. I can't talk about ancestors and I don't know what. It would be illusory to say now that my father doesn't remember his ancestors, since the Ustashas killed them all, and Boris Tadic apologizes to them, so now I am accusing Boris Tadic of it. No, I accuse Boris Tadic and the DS not of my father or any individual father, I accuse him and accuse the DS of apologizing to those who committed genocide against the Serb people in general, because more important than my father, more important than me, is the fate of the Serbian people and the fate of the Serbian state. He apologizes to those who destroyed the Serbian state and destroyed the Serbian people, and to the Republika Srpska Krajina, killed tens of thousands of people, and after that, neither the blame nor the debt fell out, nor the lawsuit against us, and there is no countersuit of the Serbian state. And, like, there was no Serbian Krajina. What do you mean, it's not? It is, and it will exist, if God will. I know, no, dear sir, it was extinguished by those who pretended to not exist and those who said they never knew it existed. In a conversation with former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, I learned that he cared, at least that's how he spoke at the time of the company with Radovan Karadzic, and I can see that you are now chasing Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, do not admire the character and part of Zoran Djindjic, at least not in part, so at the time of that great state, he said, okay Republika Srpska, but the Serbian Krajina, when it was there, I never knew it. Then he spoke -- to whom it was morale, let him go to church, since he did not know about morals in politics. Now let me tell you, each of us is a believer, more or less. I don't think that's what any of us should be racing in. I'm a believer, I don't think I'd know who the hell could object to me, but I don't know if I should brag about that in particular. But I don't think, either, that those whose policy consists of, whose morale it is, let's go to church, and those whose policy consists -- workers, you who get fired, who can't work in a mine in Bor, you start planting peanuts and start making tripod chairs, because from that you'll be able to earn and live better, and that policy can't be sacred and can't be celebrated in Serbia. As far as we're concerned, about Mr. Milivojevic, he said here's if you care that I don't exist, etc. No, you were alive for hundreds of years, Mr. Milivojevic, because you are the image and opportunity of the Democratic Party, because you are the image and opportunity of that party that the citizens in the elections will punish. We'll beat you nicely, and we'll keep you all as a little bit of water on your palm. Rest assured, your lives will be better, too, but some will have to be a little more suitable for all that they have done against Serbia and the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4558	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4559	I'm glad, Mr. Milivojevic, that you've stood up on two legs and that you're from this assembly pay phone for who knows which time you've said such idiotic things that I don't have a better word for it. Let me tell you, it's not nice to steal other people's songs. What do you think Mr. Dobrica Erić is watching the Assembly session now and sees you stealing lyrics from his song, watching Mrs. Ivana Gygon, wondering and baptizing. I was just expecting that at that moment, because you had a song in front of you and you were performing so theatrically, you say it's not me on the outside, it's you on the inside, and you keep talking, to the astonishment of all these people here. So, songs when you go to Boris Tadic, there you are his reference officer, adjutant, what are you, and since you've said what you're up to in education, that all of those schools are finished, and you've started with replicas and you've come forward with a word of attack on a decent man, a Serbian radical, master of Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, I'm going to ask Mr. Zivanović, who is a master of technology science, who lives in a village, or a populated village of Jelenca near Šapca, who is a respected host, a Serb host, who has really many cattle that you could look at, to invite you to practice, to work once in your life in your profession. When Mr. Zivanovic gets up every morning at four o'clock, at five o'clock in the barn, set up the cattle, then head to the National Assembly, not to poison people in Belgrade and Krusevec with those rotten burgers of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4560	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, if my statement can be considered, I declare that the previous gentleman is absolutely not guilty. In no way can he be guilty. They release them like this in court. Believe me, not a single piece of him in court would be convicted, released immediately, but he would have to go under a certain treatment. It's not his fault. It's the ones who are like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4562	Mr. Todorovic, don't insult fellow MPs, please. You're a cultural man, don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4563	How insulting I am, so I'm just saying he's not guilty. It is those who hired these people against Serbia, because this is the only way they could do what they did to Serbia. But I thank you for the fact that you watched the secret file. That's what's true and it shows your character. People who have come to power, who are scarred, islanded, eager revenge, eager and convinced that they will find their own files first, because they know all who of them were not in the Service of State Security but poor informers, those who are unable to make normal progress in the service, to achieve some ambitions and desires, which they have betrayed, or told all the things that the service is interested in. You have one of those Socrates, the Arithotel, you already know who's... (growls) But there is one thing, what you said shows what we all say about Serbian radicals all the time. If you'd found one word in those files, we wouldn't be alive. We'd be lustrated not by law, but by bandits. But you didn't find any Serbian radicals there, and I thank you for informing Serbia today what you immediately did when you came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4564	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Jadranko Vukovic, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just one sentence, since Mr Milivojevic here mentioned his schools and his sciences, the cattle college or was a Faculty of Agriculture, and the direction of cattle farming, in my Herzegovina is said to be such, Mr Milivojevic, he went to Belgrade to study the school for the ox, and his whole life is ruined by roaring.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4566	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4567	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 101st and a member of 106th. I really think if there's no argument on the subject, then no one has the right to insult people. You speak here and address the doctors of science, professors of universities, engineers, economists, lawyers (Verica Radeta, from the post: peasants, workers. , people who have their own honorable professions, people who have their own families, people who don't deserve a single ugly personal word. Please, there is no one, you can look at the minutes, there is not one MP who has addressed the MP group as "send," what you are doing. So, please, Mr. Chairman, in the Rules of Procedure, it is very clear and precise that it is not allowed to address MPs and MPs in an offensive manner. I'm asking you to lead this debate, if it's not a topic, but I'm asking you to lead it with full respect for the dignity of the people sitting here. We, like you, were elected by the citizens of Serbia. Insults to our account are also offensive to those citizens of Serbia who chose us here. No one has the right to do that. We can disagree politically, we can argue with arguments, we can even talk and claim that someone is responsible for something. I'm the first one who thinks that if anyone wronged the law, there should be no party pardoners on either side. As far as the Democratic Party MPs are concerned, make sure all the people sitting here have the same relationship. And if you have evidence, there are institutions and there are before those institutions all those who have sinned against the law should respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4568	Thank you, Mrs. Kolundjia. Mr. Todorovic. I'm sorry, Srdjan, I thought you gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4569	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Kolundjia, I really need to ask you where you've been, have you been to the O.R. or have you arrived now? There was a debate on certain local self-governments, i.e. municipalities, where MPs and your party and the Serbian Radical Party represented some of the examples, in their opinion illegal ones, which should be sanctioned. Everything ran in a relatively decent and acceptable atmosphere until your MP, Mr Milivojevic, came out for a pay phone and first set a mind measure for the head of the SRS parliamentary group and all MPs. It didn't occur to you then, but your obligation, if you weren't, that as head of the parliamentary group in some way, I wouldn't advise you, but if you have the conviction that there are MPs who can't be controlled when they come out for a pay phone, you can at least tell them not to go out until you're in the O.R. If you'd been in the O.R., I suppose, since you're so keenly defending the right of each MP not to be offended by the pay phone, that they would then go out for a pay phone and ask the chairman to give a warning to the MP who did it. I'm guessing you don't have double arches, so you don't measure one of the archaic representatives of the DS, and the other you have the archaic to measure the MPs of the SRS. Because we, I don't know, may not be an insult to you, but we have suffered the most serious insult of Mr. Milivojevic, from being foolish, to having abused the law in the former government, beating pregnant women, I don't know what it is, to destroying the state by no longer being Serbs where they've been for centuries. I suppose he meant the Republika Srpska Krajina, where over 500,000 Serbs were ethnically cleared. The largest ethnic cleansing since World War II was done by Croatian military forces, Croatian Ustasha forces, with the help of Americans. I guess what he's trying to say is that the Serbs are not in parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Federation. He means they're not in Kosovo and Metohija. And accused the SRS of it. What happens if they accidentally take Kosovo and Metohija away from us? Will Slobodan Milosevic be guilty again? Will it be the SRS again? Who can't stand it today in Pristina? Is Slobodan Milosevic or the SRS in power? No, there's their friends, there's the NATO Pact, there's the Americans. I've had a chance to hear their representative, one of the members of the team who's openly threatening, but who's threatening? He threatens Serbs still in Kosovo and Metohija, unless Kosovo and Metohija are declared independent, to face uncertain fate. These are the things that are most difficult for members and representatives of the SRS. If you'd asked to be followed by the Rules of Procedure then, I'd have appreciated that, but I'd appreciate it if you'd come out now when it's the same measure and the arguments, then I don't think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4570	The word is Mr. Milivojevic, so Mr. Zvonko Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4571	I really want this parliament to be the image of all the citizens of this country. I'm giving up any replicas. Thank you for the wonderful insults you've made in my name, they only continue to strengthen me to endure in the work I'm doing. Thank you to all the DS MPs and please do not participate in this anymore unless our fellow radicals continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4572	Thank you, Mr. Srdjan. Here you go, Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you will allow me to say just one sentence about the functioning of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. You are aware that the latest local elections in Kosovo and Metohija were held in 1998 in the organisation of the Republic of Serbia. UNMIK, after arriving in Kosovo and Metohija, does not recognise the people's will after the occupation, and the municipal government does not recognise it. Viewing it as parallel, UNMIK organises its elections and installs obedient power. It is known that radicals have boycotted these elections. The latest UNMIK elections were held in November 2002, so new regular elections were scheduled to take place in November 2006. However, UNMIK is in no hurry, they say, waiting to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's final status, democratically, Europeanly, is it not. More important for them is that the Serbs have listeners, bearers of local authorities, and they are in a hurry. From the first head of the Coordination Centre, Neboja Covic, you have been left with the rule that you choose people who are at the same time president of UNMIK municipalities for coordinators in Serbian enclaves. Now these co-ordinators are little gods in their municipalities, they have big money, which are extremely non-intentional, because they don't have any control. He's a co-ordinator of the Strpci municipality, where I come from, he's from the DS. Its basic feature, as well as all his colleagues in other Serb enclaves, is to abuse the official position. You know that UNMIK's interests, on the one hand, and the Serbian state, on the other hand, in Kosovo and Metohija are diametrically opposite, so that the co-ordinator for municipalities and UNMIK's president of the municipality cannot go together. You will allow me to remind you of the words of Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, who, on one of the few visits to Kosovo and Metohija, said UNMIK's municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, consist of Shipari and that anyone who works for UNMIK's administration actually works for the Shiptars. If there really is a continuity of state policy in Kosovo and Metohija, then with full right, I directly accuse you of funding the Cypriot institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. As far as these UNMIK administrations are concerned, one report that I accidentally had in my bag, which, if you'll excuse me, I'll read in one minute. He says - SO Strpce, president of SO Strpce, Mr Stanko Jakovljevic, municipal coordinator. Subject - report on the visit to the Coordination Centre. Day 19. Ten. In 2005, at 13.05 p.m., we attended a meeting with Mrs. Vera Ilankovic. In addition to us, a delegation from the Serbian municipality administration attended the meeting. The meeting discussed our status, or the status of UNMIK administration workers. Since we have expressed our views and explained that the directors of the UNMIK administration are us, read the Cypriot administrations, selected the assembly, representatives of the parties represented, recognised by the Serbian government, Mrs Vera Ilankovic, said she did not recognise the UNMIK administration and that we have nothing to expect, and that many things have changed. What things, they're wondering. Only Mrs. Veri is known. The words then came from the ladies from the opposite camp, the Serbian administration, which is the opposite camp for them, accusing us of the two presidents of the municipality, vice presidents, executive board chiefs and other services, and especially the catastra service, which is the only obligation to sell the payments to the Shiptars, and to buy for these money apartments and houses in Serbia, that we work for the Cypriots, and that they defend the honor of Serbia. This statement was confirmed by Mrs. Vera, saying she was sorry we worked for the Shipares and that we weren't guilty, but the situation we're in. A lot of insults and foul words have been made to our account, as well as to the account of the president-coordinator who is a great evil for their administration, to hide and tear documents arriving from Belgrade, asking to be removed from office as soon as possible, as if six UNMIK workers, i.e. the Ship's administrations, who are with them on the payroll, were removed from it. All this is said with tears and acting. Report submitted by the Director of Business and Finance, Mr Petar Jovanovic, director of the Department of Education, Culture, Sports and Youth Marjan Ljubic, in UNMIK's municipality. I repeat once again, if there really is a continuity of state policy in Kosovo and Metohija, then I am accusing you of directly financing the Shiparian institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4574	Thank you, Tinker Bell. Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Since my colleague Natasha congratulated me on the SPS holiday, I didn't want to usurp this microphone, I thank her. Today is a real day when the SPS was founded in 1990. I thank her for that. Here you go, Veronica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4575	Let's do a brief retrospective of the last two hours of this House's work. Minister Milan Markovic, for reasons unknown to us, left this room and then DS MPs began to discuss the Rules of Procedure. Why? So we from the SRS don't ask where the minister is. The debate ran as it ran, to some point when they received notice that the minister was coming back, so that you would be nice gentlemen, unlike us Serbian radicals, then Mr Milivojevic came out here and said he would no longer participate. Of course, he made a lot of insults at the expense of the SRS first. Then he's nice, he won't participate in this anymore, and at the door he passed with Minister Milan Markovic, because he knew when he was coming back. In the meantime, I received one message and this message, from me by an unknown citizen, I will read - ask a copy, why, when he was working as a veterinarian and the specimen was Srdjan Milivojevic, when he was working as a veterinarian in the area of Soko Banja, instead of injecting him with water and therefore taking money. The question of citizens, you can look at the messages. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4576	Thank you, Veronica. We continue the discussion, Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Have Miss Natasa Jovanovic prepare. Mr Vasiljevic, you are a birthday boy today, please sit in your seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4577	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if you expect me to start talking about local self-government in Valjev, you're wrong, I'll talk about the law. The European Charter of Local Self-Government was signed in Strasbourg in October 1985 and took effect in September 1988. The basic thesis of this charter is the great importance of local self-government, which can very much affect the development of democratic values in every society, and in our society as well, and it seems to me that we need to talk about it today. When we talk about practice, we can talk about that at the local level, in the most direct way, citizens can contribute to the development of democracy and in some ways feel it the most. The aim of the Charter is to preserve and improve the system of local self-government through a number of principles, of which it seems important to mention democratisation and decentralisation, because the goal of each country is to transfer as much competence as possible to local self-government, to give it as much responsibility as possible. That is the measure of true democratic values. Most of the countries that are members of the Council of Europe have accepted and signed the European Charter of Local Self-Government, as did the state of Serbia-Montenegro, when it became a member of the Council of Europe in April 2003, and it has then pledged to ratify the Charter within two years of its entry into the Council of Europe, and to bring its legislation into line with the provisions required by this Charter. As the legal successor of the state of Serbia-Montenegro, Serbia has taken over the obligation. Most of the time, it has brought its legislation into line, which is confirmed by a large number of laws that we have passed in this assembly in the past term, but to the very ratification and confirmation of the treaty we have not come to, and this law is today in front of us for these very reasons. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is found in Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which finds that the Republic of Serbia regulates the international position and relations with other countries and international organisations, as well as Article 99(4). The constitution of Serbia, under which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should confirm international agreements. The European Charter of Local Self-Government speaks of the constitutional and legal status of local self-government, the concept of local self-government, the financial resources and the right of local self-government to association, the legal protection of local self-government authorities. So, on very important things, when it comes to decentralisation and democratisation of government in Serbia, which is a very important topic for the development of our democratic society. Because it seems to me to be one of the major steps in our country's development towards a modern state, the DSS-New Serbia parliamentary group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica will vote for this law, a team before most of the provisions of this Charter have already been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4578	I thank my colleague Vojić-Markovic. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you know very well that this is not a law in the right sense, but a way to confirm, through such a form, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was brought long ago in 1985, when we absolutely had no information available about what the authorities of local self-government were doing. I speak from my, then younger, experience, you are still a few years younger than I am, but many people sitting in this hall, who were opponents of the one-party system, and the fact that, in the right sense, the tradition of yesterday's distinguished colleague, Mr. Martinovic, the local self-government in Serbia, which existed in the late 19th and 20th centuries, until the First World War, was extinguished the moment that it moved on to a delegate decision-making system. Since this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then the Assembly of the Republic within the SFRY, formerly the FNRJ, was filled in benches with some delegated representatives of the Communist Party, without being able to be touched directly by the people in the elections, so the authorities and units of local self-government existed to satisfy the form, to carry out tasks within the framework of jurisdiction that was then given by the law, but we who later went into pluralism and the renewal of the multi-party, in the early 1990s we were just beginning to find out, in the legal sense of the words, what the body, or unit of local self-government, should do. In the first general elections held on the same day, it seems to me on December 7th 1992, when the country's elected president, one parliament, the other local self-government authorities, began to test the electoral principle to be applied in Serbia. In 2007, we came to the situation that you as the newly appointed minister chosen by the assembly majority should, as soon as possible, go to the public and the MPs with the constitution of a harmonised law on local self-government, on local elections, in order to be ready to enter the electoral process, for which we Serbian radicals are very thoroughly preparing, we expect the elections very quickly and we are convinced that in most of the municipalities in Serbia we will win these elections. The experience we have had in the past four years has been disastrous and this whole debate that has been taking place since this morning, all morning, crossing the spear between MPs, primarily the SRS and MPs of the DS, is precisely because of the guilt on you, your DOS authorities, who did not want to listen to our Serbian radicals when the law was passed after the five-octobaric coup, first on local self-government and then on local elections, when we told you a series of criticisms, arguments and amendments that you were still playing with something that citizens' lives in one local environment. The fact that for one resident, wherever he lives, asphalt, water, sewerage, basic elemental conditions for life, perhaps you are still, long ago placed in a ministerial chair, you cannot see through the prism of all those people who have no way, who have no electricity, who have no basic conditions to live. But for people like us, Serbian radicals, who are on the ground all the time, who are talking to citizens, who are watching what is done in the city and in the suburbs, and in smaller and more developed villages, it is very important that Serbia finally gets the Law on Local Self-Government, now in line with the new Constitution, which will be absolutely protected by citizens in the exercise of their rights, which is one of the points of this Charter, therefore, written for countries that had a democratic system at the time and which had a multi-party and in those years. However, you, Mr. Minister, have not shown or signaled to the representatives of the highest legislative body, nor the public, nor have you spoken to the television, nor have you held a press conference, nor are you here in any other context, and when all these discussions, they said, "Serbia by measure of the Constitution", the arranged unit of local self-government, as the minister I see and so on, and I will stand for it at the cabinet session, whose Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica is. That we don't experiment anymore, and we don't bring more citizens into a situation to wonder if they're going to have normal drinking water, whether they're going to have asphalt, and not there like some of those Velins who've been stealing from the road mob, that the thief's going to have a little bit of asphalting the neighbors, the councilman, the sister-in-law, run, but that people know it's a law that's going to apply equally to everyone. The other very important thing, Mr. Minister, is that you've faced a lot of screwups, that's the least said, your predecessor, Mr. Lonchar. I was forced to speak directly to him on several occasions and speak to him from the post of MP in the protection of the local self-government units of the Arangelian. Only with the ability and will of Serbian radicals and the president of the municipality of Arandjelovac, Dr Radoslav Svabic, today is not a situation as in Gornji Milanovac, which was spoken of by Mr Baralic, or in some other municipalities in Serbia. The county's been unblocked. That is today, I would say, in central Serbia, one of the largest sites. In the villages of the municipality of Arangelovac is done, absolutely in almost every village, in the large length of the new asphalt. There are projects for two new kindergartens, which Kragujevac does not have, where the 10-fold budget is incapacitated, but now already leaving, Mayor Stevanovic has gambled for three and a half years, with such a budget, and has not provided a minimum of what he has promised in the local election campaign. Not to mention projects around Bukovica spa, about the reconstruction of the central street, about the construction of two new swimming pools, the new bus stop. And the story of Novi Sad, Kickindi, Pozega, Zemun and all other places where Serbian radicals are in power would take a long time, and now I don't have enough time. But since the government in Kragujevac is so incompetent, since Veroljub Stevanović is incompetent last night, it seems to me, on one local television, that he will see it with you, you are known as colleagues in the National Assembly. I don't know just when you met because you used to come here, and he wasn't when he was an MP and the president of that phantom parliamentary group. He will easily see it with you and what election law will be, and what will happen to five Kragujevac municipalities, because the statute of the town of Kragujevac, which first brought DOS power, headed by your mayor then, has educated five municipalities in the city, which is allowed and recommended by this charter adopted in 85. And what did the people of Kragujevac know? They found out in 92 that the law was to be passed, under which the town of Kragujevac would have at least two municipalities. The most normal thing was, 15 years ago, I was pushing for it, that the natural line and the border, so the Lepenica River, would be the one to make those two municipalities, as is the case in Novi Sad. We now have one found state there. We have a statute as the highest legal act, as well as in every municipality, which in many of its segments is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have a situation where you as a minister do not signify either Stevanovic or everyone else where there are more than two municipalities, that they must start preparing for local elections that will take place in a few months. Don't let it happen, Mr. Markovic, we talked about this several times in the local parliament, the City Assembly, to wait for the elections to be established, where it was Verice, the Assembly of the Surcin Municipality, which you quickly produced to draw away part of the Serb Radical Party's electoral body, which, of course, did not go with your hand, but later on, with the coup and kidnapping of the board, to build on the meadows of the Assembly of the municipality of Pirara, or Stanov, or Stragari, and Airport. Here, let's say, Old Town may have conditions because it's in the city seat. So, the basic assumptions have not yet been made, and you as a minister neither solve all the problems, nor the ideas people have been talking about since this morning, members of the Serbian Radical Party, who are both committees and committee presidents, nor offer us a solution, Mr Markovic. You, under the obligation of our country to join the Council of Europe, had to come out with this command. But, in addition to that disastrous translation, I don't have enough time to go into that segment, how some words and some English expressions you've mistranslated, so here we were talking about yesterday, and now in one part it's said, instead of having it translated that every MP understands, that every elected representative or councilman is protected from any influence of the tycoon, or that he shouldn't be bribed, you're talking about him having a normal office to work with. They have normal offices for work and functional supplements all in the Stevanovic government in Kragujevac. I don't know if you've heard or heard of another such municipality in Serbia. The mayor has a salary, deputy mayor, members of the City Council, and, by the way, listen well to me, Mr Markovic, one MP sitting in a parliamentary bench, called Nebojsa Zdravkovic, is a member of the G17 group, not currently in the hall, is a member of the City Council in Kragujevac. He could no longer be a member of the City Council for a single day, which is because Stevanovic took him to take him to Dinkic for lunch and to have a connection with the government. What a black connection to the government, the city is increasingly failing, it's incapacitated, of course, was to solve problems from the municipal infrastructure, there's no Greenfield project, there's no investment. During his reign, so many people have been fired from work, and you are not responding at all, Mr. Markovic, but you are just sitting there, not talking to us, not giving us any indication. You know very well that the Constitution is clear, especially in the provisions of Articles 180 and 191, when it comes to the election of the President of the Municipality, i.e. the executive bodies of government, councilors and conflicts of interest, which I am talking about in the case of my colleague Zdravkovic, who, by the letter of the Constitution, cannot be the official of the executive authority one day. These are all very big problems and, like all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, I expect that you will be going to the final constitutional deadline, by the end of 2007, because the Constitutional Law says, within 60 days of the adoption of the law, local and presidential elections will be held, not only not good, but it will cost you, in addition to everything you have done wrong, which we have heard about this morning, especially because of the highest degree of corruption recorded in local self-government. The research that was done, it has even done a centre in which active participation is attended by current Minister Samardzic and wife Vojislav Kostunicaa Zorica Radovic, showing that the largest corruption is right in local self-government, from the local community to the municipal authority of the administration, which was recognised by citizens, even at 68%. Of course, we will be absolutely ready, both with personnel and with what we are offering right now, because we have taken seriously the taking of competence from the field of health, and the development of the local community, to beat you in these elections, no matter how much electoral law you are and how you associate against us, Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4580	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word is Miss Jelena Markovic - she's not here. Then the word is Mr. Radovan Milovankic. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4581	I've come to the office to give an explanation, because the previous speaker mentioned Kickinda. In fact, Kikinda is a town with about 43,000 inhabitants, which means it's a small town, a smaller town. It's a city of tolerance and a city of democracy. In kickinda, they've been working in power for the last two and a half years since the last election. Kickinda is one real proof of how one municipal government needs to function. We're in the Kickindi coalition, most of all in the coalition with the citizens. Because we respect all citizens' opinions, we cooperate with them. Every Monday we make a citizen's reception, where citizens present their complaints, objections, or the work of local authorities or the work of municipal enterprises mostly. Because the local authorities, in fact, have no objections at their expense. Natasha mentioned a lot of work being done in municipalities where radicals were in power. That's absolutely true. Kikinda has done 15 km of sewers in these two years and 30 km of asphalt. We'll end up in Kikinda and the surrounding city sewers all over town this year and next. All the villages have asphalt. All the villages around kickinda have been shut down. With this kind of power in kickinda, we expect in the next election to win more than 50% and 50%, respectively, plus 1% of the vote. In Kikinda, in addition to being the biggest business of the municipality, which is the municipal infrastructure, we started building a water factory, because Kikinda has very bad water; then, for the industrial zone, we prepared all the papers, the country, and even from the National Investment Plan, the funds were approved. The only thing that's going on is that all the work we're doing is the Ministry. That's where they're waiting. These jobs were supposed to be done, infrastructure in that industrial zone, more spring. However, as our government has formed, because it is the government who chooses performers, we are only waiting. It's not to concentrate, it's to see if I've missed something of great work. As far as democracy is concerned, as opposed to the yellow democracy that exists in this House, I believe that we are the only municipality where, by coming to power, we have introduced that committee clubs have only two members, which are not clubs but a committee couple. That's what we've been doing for the following reasons. (President: You've used your time. I'd just like to finish up for the board clubs. The board clubs here, I say, have even two members, in order to enable these small parties, such as the DSS, the Union of Duchy Hungarians, G 17, that they all have their own parliamentary clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4582	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Radovan Milovankic. Let the People's Messenger Goran Rakovac be prepared. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4583	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the bill of law before us is based on the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In addition to what Mr. Minister said in the opening statement, we would also be interested in better clarification to say - why have some countries not signed it? It's nice when you praise the text. One of these states, among other things, is Belgium, Ireland, part of France. You can look that up and read it on the Internet. It took some countries over 10 years, let's say 13 years for the UK to agree. It took Russia 13 years to agree. So, we don't have that experience here in front of us, and the MPs should get it, that text. Of course, I will mention and talk about the first and third parts of the bill. For what? The first part of the law, which defines the scope of local self-government, except that, according to that people's expression, "what is not prohibited, everything is allowed", practically in the second position of this member, says that local authorities within the legal limits have full freedom to decide on initiatives on any issue. I want to tell you that the predecessors, MPs from the Serbian Radical Party, have said that the authority of the president of the municipality is great. The parliamentary group, at least in the Kruševac municipality, often pointed out, permanently, to the overauthority of the president of the municipality. This is about protecting the borders of the local government. I'll try to say something serious. I hope it won't be funny, since an MP from the Democratic Party said he advocated Nis's autonomous area or south of Nis. Here is Mr. Djokic from Kruševec, so I believe you will vote for the Hawk to stay in Krusevec, not to go to the low region. Of course, all of this is ridiculous because the Constitution very clearly defines, in Article 2 of Article 1, that the sovereignty of citizens is achieved through the referendum. So it shouldn't say "they can do it." That's what the Constitution specified. It's not all about the West. He's also smart in this constitution that was adopted here. I also want to tell you that administrative oversight of the activities of local authorities introduces a new institution. Mr Krasic mentioned that earlier. It's about volunteering. What am I saying this for? If you've been reading this seriously, apart from the front page and the explanations, you'll see that the authorities can also do administrative surveillance. You know, it's very risky when you leave someone at will, even if it's the ministry or at least the minister, to determine who in the local parliament can introduce some measures. As for the third part, with Miss Natasa Jovanovic’s remarks, she said in translation, a member of the 16 - territorial clause, so the problem itself is little in translation. I want to tell you that it is a good opportunity to take advantage and to confirm, although this already exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 8(1), that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique, comprehensive and indivisible. We don't even need this member to say -- who and what parts of Serbia we need to enter into this text of the bill. All in all, I hope Mr. Minister is not looking through the zero principle of this law. Since the appraisal holds that scarf and you should, Mr. Minister, so the same relationship that you have with all the local parliaments. So, we should adapt our legislation to domestic laws, citizens of Serbia, and not to add ourselves to the European Union in this way, something that came to them 20 years ago. Through a wide door to volunteerism, we fear you will not selectively join individual local parliaments in Serbia. I say this because you send a very bad message to the citizens ahead of the upcoming local elections, where the Serbian Radical Party expects to enter a huge number of power. So, we there, Mr. Minister, will rule the laws, and not the will of an individual or a group, even if that group was formal, such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4584	I thank my colleague. Word has a colleague, Goran Rakovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4585	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, we have before us a law which, at first sight, should not cause dissonant tones here in the Assembly. However, the mid-day discussions reassured me of this belief, which only shows how important the topic on the agenda is today and how much trouble we have in local self-government in Serbia. Before I say anything about the Charter itself, I'd like to point out one thing that a few speakers before me have also suggested, but I think that should give a special meaning. It is the fact that Serbia has a very rich history and a very large tradition in the existence of local self-government. Among other things, the modern-day Serbian state, which was made by semi-written Karadjord's rebels, has just emerged from local self-government, where the release of certain parts of our country has led to the formation of Serbia as a state. We began with the princess, through the nahih and came to the principality of Serbia, the Kingdom of Serbia, and later we drowned that country into something else that led us only now, after 170 years, to live again in the state of Serbia. With such a tradition, with so much experience in the restaurant, Serbia has now come into a situation to adopt one charter that was passed, as we have heard on many occasions, in 85 years, and has entered into force in 88 years. But it is never too late and it is good that today is on the agenda of this law, and it is good that Serbia has created and has this tradition, and it is good that the political struggle in our country for almost the entire 19th and 20th centuries was led, among other things, between local and central authorities, sometimes at the expense of local authorities, and sometimes for the benefit of local authorities. And it's a good thing everyone realized today that the issue of decentralisation and democratisation of the country is the easiest thing to solve right through local self-government, and that these are the basic principles of a country's democratic order. The general principle is that one country is considered more or less democratic in that it has more ingenuity transferred to local authorities. If the situation is already so with Serbia and with its tradition, with the experiences it has, it is worth mentioning that all those principles and all those views set out in this Charter are more or less represented in our legislation, starting with the Constitution that we adopted last year, and also through a series of laws that apply in this country. So, we are not now bringing anything from Europe new, something that is unknown to us, something that we need to coordinate with us not knowing how much our legislation, but much we have, most of the things are incorporated into our system that currently exists, and the fact that we are coming in this year under the constitutional law is one reform of this legislation, namely the adoption of a series of regulations that directly concern local self-government gives us the right to both this European Charter, or the principles that it contains, to take into account in the adoption of these laws. I would only remind us that during this year, we have been followed by laws on territorial organisation, the law on the capital, the law on local self-government, or at least amendments to the existing local elections, the law on the property of local self-government, and that last year we passed the Law on the financing of local self-government. We already have most of the regulations that regulate this matter. I agree with many of my predecessors that some of these laws have not proved good, some have even proved to be very bad, but it is so much better that we have another act before us that has been widely accepted by almost all European countries and that will help us in any way, and the Ministry when we propose the rules that need to be passed in the course of this year, and also to the MPs when we vote these regulations to find the right solutions that will rightly set up this area of social life. As far as the Charter itself is concerned, I would only mention what it contains in its first part, these are some general principles, which are not only democratic fluids, as many have pointed out here, I would say that there are civilizational fluids, which no one has the right specifically to heritage or the EU. And once again I say that most of these flows are adopted by us even before we ratify this charter. All in all, I believe that this law, although perhaps a little late, is welcome, is good that it has come to the agenda and is good that we are considering it today. The adoption of this charter, namely its ratification, is good for both the state of Serbia and even more for local self-government, and perhaps for the citizens themselves, given that they are the closest to local self-government and that the issue of decentralisation is the easiest to implement precisely through municipalities, local communities and other forms of local self-government that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4586	Thank you, colleague of the Rakovac. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Milan Markovic, and the MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia in their discussions explained why this law confirming the European Charter of Local Self-Government should not be considered by an emergency procedure, and why this law should not be considered at an emergency session. So, there was no haste, if the European Charter of Local Self-Government was brought in 1985, in the last century, to this day, has not been ratified in this House, and as the Minister and, as the ruling majority MPs have said, it is almost everything contained in this European Charter that already exists in our laws and in our Constitution. So this was the job of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of course the Serbian Parliament, which is actually a distraction of the public and throwing dust in the eyes of citizens, because the President of Parliament, who is currently on some, probably on his personal tour, is listening on the news to invite the presidents of parliaments of some countries, to organise some kind of association, etc. As far as I know, there is no such mandate from the National Assembly, nor has the Rules of Procedure contained what he is talking about in his meetings with the presidents of parliaments, that is, the Croatian Parliament, the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and where everything was not known. So, Mr Oliver Dulic promised that the National Assembly would work day and night, so when he saw that the job had nothing to do with it, then in agreement with the representatives of the Government we are dealing with something that has no purpose today. It is true that we are one of the few countries that has not formally ratified this, but if we already have it embedded in our regulations, then there is really no reason to ratify this something special right now, especially not that we are doing it this way, at a time when the Rules of Procedure Assembly is not in a regular session, and according to the Constitution of course. The minister here in his explanation, yesterday he read what was written in the explanation, he didn't tell us anything new, especially Article 3. A bill of this law, which only makes sense and that only really needs to be discussed here. In the course of his opening presentation, the minister has told the MPs several times, you will see what it says here, which I have remembered for you, Minister, and I comment that you never say that again, at least as far as the MPs of the SRS are concerned. We come here prepared, we see, we read, we study before we get to the session, and your objection may have been about your colleagues from your party and your parties, then say so. You also said, Mr. Minister, that what I'm saying is that in our Constitution and in our laws, most of the time, what these European charters contain is embedded, but now I'm asking you something that you didn't say about this speaker, and what you said in public several times, in the media. I asked you one more time and you didn't answer me, or you didn't answer the citizens of Serbia, which is why you plan to violate the Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? You said, Mr. Markovic, that you would consider making a proposal in the government, that would then be a draft law on local self-government at the end of October, which means there is no way that local elections will end within the deadline foreseen by the Constitutional Law, which is by the end of this year. It is a job that you should do, Mr Markovic, to prepare those laws to which you are bound by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, not to distract the citizens of Serbia and this House, which we have been discussing for two days. Why did I say that the essence, which actually the MPs here can discuss, is Article 3. It's a bill of law. Usually we get something that you've copied from the white world, then it can mostly just function by system take or leave. It never leaves us with the possibility that we can change or contribute to this work. In the case of the European Charter, i.e. the draft law we are discussing today, we have a Article 3 which leaves the possibility and you have provided that, when handing over the ratification instrument for the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the Republic of Serbia will make a statement of the following content: the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 12. The European Charter of Local Self-Government will be deemed mandatory to accept the following provisions, and then you said Article 2, Article 3, paragraphs 1 and 2, Article four, point 1, 2, 4, 6. etc. Now, Minister, I'm going to ask you a few specific questions about how you've chosen these members and these attitudes, why you're not others, so let me see what your argument will be. First of all, I have one general remark. It is unacceptable in this bill, Article 2, before the Serbian version, to have an English version. We should first have a translation into Serbian and be an integral part of our law, and this Article 2 in English was never to be found as a bill, because this is a Serbian assembly, Mr Markovic, and we do not pass laws whose individual members are written in English. The English language, or translation into English, was to be explained, it had to be found, because thanks to this original in English, you heard a fantastic lecture, I hope you learned something yesterday from Mr. Martinović, who explained to you how it was translated and how it was meant to be translated according to the Serbian language and in the spirit of our legal system. I ask you, Mr Milan Markovic, why you have installed Article 4. Charter, paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 6. Why attitude 5 has been skipped, and attitude 5 speaks in the scope of local self-government, says – where powers are granted by central or regional authorities, local authorities will, to the extent possible, be given full freedom of choice in adapting their activities to local conditions. These are, Mr. Minister, so-called. Trusted business. Do you plan to decentralisation, in which you swear, by not having any more trust in local affairs, but by doing everything on a republican level? So we think that this attitude 5 was also to be incorporated into this Article 3 of the Law. I'm also asking you why Article 8? You said Article 8 paragraphs 1 and 2 and why not point 3? Article 3 says -- administrative oversight of local authorities will be done to ensure that the government's control intervention is in proportion to the importance of the interest that needs to be protected. This should be a budget inspection and I don't see why it's not built into this law. In Article 9, you predicted that you especially install attitudes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, we suggested that attitude 8. be deleted. The attitude 8 is what Mr. Martinovic read yesterday, referring to the funding of local authorities, says – in order to borrow for capital investment, local authorities will have access to the national capital market within legal opportunities. This legal possibility, Mr Milan Markovic, does not exist, there is no bar in our Constitution and what you have predicted is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have also submitted an amendment that is actually considered extremely important, and it refers to Article 3, where we can change the way we intervene. I really expect that, as a responsible man, this amendment, on the day we discuss details, you will accept, where we have asked that in this Article 3, which is the only one who can be the topic of discussion in this Parliament, to add one position, which would regulate the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 16(1). The European Charter of Local Self-Government defines the territory the Charter refers to, in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, you may be able to answer, I don't know whether, to imply that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, as regards the SRS, of course it is understood, of course we will do everything to keep it that way forever, but it is necessary in the situation in which the state in which Kosovo and Metohija lies, from the aspect of your Western friends with whom you welcome and who you send, and those who remain here, is necessary to give a special emphasis on Kosovo and Metohija as well as on the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4588	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our registered speech MPs will give up the speech, because Mr. Minister has expressed his desire to finish today by 1400 hours, because there are some duties in the afternoon, and he would not want to continue the discussion without his presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4590	The word has a minister, Mr. Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4591	I thank the MPs of the SRS who are the only ones left on this list of speakers for understanding. I really think it's necessary for the minister to attend whenever his act is on the agenda and in this way I think we can finish this item on the agenda. We have, at the very least, a debate on the amendments, and then I'm going to take the opportunity to answer Mrs. Radete's question, because we're going to de facto consider it all through your amendments, so I'm going to take just two or three minutes to give the final word on this principle debate. So, I think that today's debate, which has been conducted on the European Charter of Local Self-Government, has actually shown what we all know well in the hall, which is that it is necessary to approach the amendments to the existing Law on Local Self-Government and that certain shortcomings, which exist in our system, are the consequences of legal solutions. I think it's been spoken here a number of times and whether our existing Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections is in accordance with Article 3(2). The European Charter of Local Self-Government refers to the direct election of the president of the municipality and the mayor. I don't think there's any need to spend too many words on the subject, since the Constitution has resolved the election of the president of the municipalities, and it seems to me that there is a clear political will to resolve the issue of the mayor's election in a similar way. What I'm trying to say is that, however, I believe that the European Charter has given only one minimum standard and there is no obstacle to you working it out, even if it is a direct choice. In fact, the Council of Europe has hired a group of experts to give an opinion on whether the President's direct choice is in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and they have concluded in the end that it is, precisely by handling this position that I have now put forward here, which is that one minimum is given and in accordance with that maximum -- who can do less, can do more, and that can be worked out. However, clean information works, preparing for this debate, namely to defend this bill to the MPs, I took one review of the representation of different systems for selecting mayors in the SE Member States and the current situation is that in 12 countries there are direct elections of the president of municipalities, in five states there is some mixed system and in 16 countries is a indirect choice from the assembly. I think that, when it comes to Serbia, we are quite agreed that the existing Law on Local Self-Government did not give the best effect in applying it when it comes to Serbia. As for the esteemed counterpart from Kruševec, I took the latest data since 12 July 2007, it is true that France only ratified the charter this year, Belgium ratified the charter last year, so that the ratification process takes a long time. I think what, in my deep belief, is the most important thing for us when we work in September, we pass laws, and I'm going to say about deadlines, and I owe it, and the most important thing is to ensure the stability of local self-government, and I think that's where we all agree. There remains an open question that at this point is a dilemma for me, which is the supervision of the central government over local self-government. I sincerely hope that we will succeed through the Law on Local Self-Government itself to predict a sufficiently stable system so that we do not have to think about enlargement and the possibilities for the central government, as counterpart Baralic said, say, now let's work something out. It's just that someone here was talking, I can't remember who said the essence of local self-government, and that the higher power should not possibly appreciate the integrity of acts of lower authority. Only the assessment of constitutionality and legality comes, and it should not be in the jurisdiction of the executive authority, but of the courts and of the Constitutional Court. I think there's a very difficult job waiting for us. I think our experience, as our colleagues have said, is quite rich and that we can come to a solution based on that experience. My guess, based on the informal talks I have had with the representatives of all parties in this House, I think 90 percent of the solution that we will propose will reflect some common understanding in this House. Of course, there's something we're going to be different about, but that's perfectly normal. As far as the election deadline is concerned, it is obviously a small misunderstanding, I assure you that we, as a ministry, will respect all obligations under the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Serbia, we will do the laws in good time. By half of October, all laws can be found in front of the National Assembly. The National Assembly can adopt this relatively quickly, and the Constitutional Law says it is time for the vote to be called, or elections will be called within 60 days of the day of the adoption of adequate laws. I think, in the end, it's only two more months and the work will show if what I'm saying right now is telling the truth. We are fully prepared at the Ministry to do this job as the Constitutional Law had predicted. As for the election of members of the Charter, I think our country, since I must say, that the previous government, this government, is government before this government, that we have defined ourselves to these positions in the first 20 members of the Charter, simply because it does not require any future intervention in the legislative sense. De facto, we are, I should say as a state, in terms of our local self-government system even a step ahead or a step ahead, I can say, because we have a more coherent system of local self-government than some other SE Member States, and even some EU Member States. I am truly responsible for this, and I have made sure of that in recent talks with representatives of some other SE countries. So simply, we have chosen 24 attitudes, if I remember correctly, these are attitudes that are practically already incorporated into our legislation and I think that's the best way to do it. So we have complete freedom further as we manage all these. It is important that we always stay at that level behind these key 20 EU positions. In any case, as this debate may seem, it has been useful, because it has shown all the depth of the problem of positive legislation in the area of local self-government and we can say the consequences of the former law. Unfortunately, but I already said, in that Resolution 179 of 2004. the year, the SE Resolution, it is simply not to believe, anything listed as a flaw in the direct election of the president of the municipalities, has been shown on the case of Serbia. Unfortunately, no one could have predicted it would turn out just like that, but it also speaks well of our political scene, and of our local political scenes. We may not have been ready for such a step, but now it is our chance in October to make changes according to this negative experience we have from previous years. I thank you once again for the understanding of the discussion and I hope that during the debate on amendments we will also discuss these topics that you mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4592	I thank Minister Markovic. I'm concluding a unique search of the bill's proposal. After we have carried out a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the bill's proposal in principle, in detail and in general. Resume session at 3:04 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4593	Dear People's MPs, we continue our afternoon work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan and Financial Agreement between KFW FRANKFURT ON THE TERRIBLE AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA "REHABILITATION OF THE LOCAL CRYING SYSTEM IN SERBIA - Phase III" You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 149a point 3, and corresponding to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. So, proportionally. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 149a(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the bill. Does the proposing official, Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill to confirm the loan agreement and finance between KFW from Germany and the Republic of Serbia on a project to rehabilitate the local heating system in Serbia - phase III. The project and in general the agreement are based on the protocols signed in 2003 and 2004 and are constantly working on the problem of rehabilitating the local heating system in Serbia, with the first and second phases fully financed from grants. In the case of this third phase, it is expected to invest 20m euros. Of those 20m euros, 12m euros is on a credit basis, and eightm euros is grants. As far as the conditions under which this loan will be obtained are concerned, it is in fact that after obtaining a loan, the Republic of Serbia will focus it on selected local heating companies in the Republic of Serbia and will be given this in terms of loans, which they will repay at an interest rate of 2% annually, over a period of twelve and a half years, in which two and a half years grace period and ten years is the period of repayment. The Republic of Serbia itself will repay the loan of eight million in 18 equal, consecutive, semi-annual tranches. I believe that this is a very favourable agreement, 40% of the funds are obtained on a non-refundable basis, and I propose to the MPs to pass a law on validation, with another note that the funds in the budget are foreseen for these purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4595	Thank you, Minister. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4596	Dear Serbian citizens, dear fellow Members of Parliament, on this agreement and this loan and donation, I will obviously have much more to tell you from the minister. I'll answer you three basic questions: who gives this loan, for what purposes is this loan given, and what do we as a country get from it? What do you think is behind the magic word KFW? No one has given us a closer explanation of what's behind this keybinding. KFW is the German Development Bank. The bank, which is 100% owned by the German state, of which 80% is owned by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and 20% is owned by German provinces. In the election campaign, as members of the SRS, we talked about the need for a development bank as a state. It was either silenced or even condemned. Why are you keeping the people of Serbia quiet to be financed by a state German institution? That's no shame. It is a shame that you condemn those of us who claim to have a development bank that will finance our economy, not as Germany, which is strong and that exists for 50 years, to go to foreign markets. Why don't you shut up? You don't look up to a big, strong country like Germany, thinking someone would blame you. Or maybe there's a reason to keep your mouth shut. That it is not contained in the fact that at the address, where there is this developmental German state bank, at the same time, one association, or holding company, as it is called in German terminology and in ours, means on that number from 5 to 9, not to mention the name in Frankfurt on Main Street, because I can't speak German, but it is at the address of the German state bank and holding which in these 12 million calls in fact the German state is financing the export of the product of its industry. That's not my guess. The German banking institution owned by the German state of KFW has five organisational parts outside of holding, outside production companies. They are accompanied by German exporters and that part is KFW IPEX. The second part is called KFW Ferder. It finances infrastructure, municipal systems in other countries, educational institutions, climate improvement and energy efficiency. The third part of KFW bank is called Mittelstandsbank, which is funded by small and medium-sized enterprises and, also an interesting detail, came from fusion with the German settlement bank. There's a part that deals with funding countries in transition and development, and that's the part that's showing up here, among other things, as someone who's realising this loan. Under KFW, the German state development bank, there is also KFW DEG, part of which deals with financing the economic structure. That's not all. When you enter the KFW Group site, you will see that the loans that are placed through the Volks Bank, Raiffeisen Bank or some private bank. Germany's developmental state bank has received a clear area where there is no bank or there are several more which, as you planned, will change their structure that the state does not have a percentage of the participation, so that the bank can, through here, establish its branches and organisational units to develop the German economy. That's not all, either. What you're up against here, you're backing up by taking credit from KFW Bank, which is next. The bank also has a 45% stake in the German State Post Office since 2003, and by that date the percentage was too high. Who are you telling here the story of modern economic processes demanding the exit of the state from all strategic areas? The KFW Group has a 13.63% stake in the Procredited Bank, which exists here in Serbia. So it's not enough that the use of all loans goes through related, connected banks, that you as a state generously accept these terms of credit, but in the countries of the type of Serbia or Azerbaijan also goes with direct participation in banking organisations. With us, it's the Procedural Bank. It's in Azerbaijan, for example. Microfinance Bank. Citizens should know that what applies to Germany, as a valuable and developed country, should not apply to Serbia, because the government thinks that we should not have a development bank and that we should be turned into ideal debtors. Just as aggressive, persistent and bold banks are trying to make citizens, who want to live beyond their ability, to create ideal debtors, it is also trying to do the same with the state of Serbia, turning it into an ideal debtor, i.e. the ideal market for the placement of financial resources. If it wasn't a dispute, you wouldn't even be silent. You kept your mouth shut, yes, Mr. Minister, you gently smiled, and you kept quiet that you also assigned the Agency for the Rehabilitation and Bank Banks Banks to the same kind of aid this year, which is called aid for the recapitalization of the Deposit Insurance Fund. Mr. Parivodić, not an irrelevant date, just before the elections, before the election results were announced, Mr. Parivodić and Jambiæ of the agency, which is otherwise involved in the bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation of banks, or to translate into Serbian, clearing the ground for foreign banks in this country, signed a contract on January 17th, one agreement similar to this one, in which you received from that group a significant means to improve the work of this institution, worth 9m euros. Dear colleagues, we discussed the budget here. None of you, along with me, saw then that the budget of the Republic of Serbia contained an 8.74m-euro item, which was transferred to the account of the Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation, or what is now called, of the Deposit Insurance Agency. It's not funny, but it's suspicious why he's hiding. In this, the principle of funding is KFW. At 9m euros, given by KFW Bank to the Deposit Insurance Agency, the state of Serbia had to pay 700m dinars, and it literally wrote, from the Republika Srpska budget. Mr. Minister, in this budget, by listing that big book, I think you've only been through the item "Departo444, which is called the cost of lending, paid that sum the way you've been asked by foreign financials. Why didn't you boast of this investment, but you called it the cost of borrowing and it amounts to 750 million dinars. What is controversial is that at the moment the agreement was concluded, Mrs. Elke, the director and KFW of the institution, said in her speech the following two sentences: "The state economy also benefits from investing money in banks, unlike storage in straws, because that money can be worked, it is supported by local banks, and the state is not solely dependent on the raising of credit to foreign banks." Let me rephrase the key line -- "and the state is not exclusively dependent on raising credit with foreign banks". Those who give us funds say we shouldn't be dependent on foreign loans, but that's not enough for you. It is important for you to go public with Serbia and tell the truth that it is a favourable loan. I claim that in this room, there is no person who is serious in this country who could stand behind his claim that he can say how much this loan costs. In the document you've shared, which tells us about the terms of the loan, the interest is unknown. The borrower of the state of Serbia commits to a loan whose price he does not know, as Article 4 of the law states that the interest we will pay on this loan will be known at the moment of the last withdrawal. How can you say it's a favourable loan? How can you say a loan costs 2% if it's gonna be paid so much by those local self-governments and organizations that use credit, but to the state? You can't fool us by giving similar credit costs in a few places, which are far beyond what you're talking about. Dear citizens, this loan, for which you, I, all of us, are the only guarantee, is not mortgaged. For this loan is a guaranteed tax which we all pay through the budgets of local self-government and through the Republic budget. That is why we are an interesting market for investment to those who assess, and have estimated at the last significant financial meetings, that Macedonia, Croatia and Serbia are the most important market and most prospective for money investment. Besides countries called Brazil, India, Russia and China, we belong to that group of the most attractive countries, and we have a government that accepts to assign us, to create a commitment that we cannot influence, but that we will have to endure extremely difficult conditions. Mr. Minister, why don't you tell the citizens that you're unable to use these loans? Why don't you tell the citizens that in 2006, you had to pay interest, fines on undrawn assets, worth 1,056,000 euros? On the loans of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, whose first man, Mr. Lemie, you received yesterday, you owe this people and you already paid EUR 954.781 through the 2006 budget for undrawn funds. On the approved, not the used loan, we pay the fine, dear citizens. That's about 81 million dinars. The entire annual budget for refugees and displaced persons is 810 million, and 81 million is literally thrown into the water by the government's incompetence, which wants to borrow, and is unable to use those loans. This is what was shown in the 2006 final account report. How much is in those final accounts you didn't deliver? That is why we are asking to see these final accounts; 1,056,656 euros only on undrawn funds from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 101 000 euros to this institution, Germany's development bank, which is 100% owned by the German state. You take this loan to finance local heating systems, separate heat metering and adapt substations. This is phase three. What about first and second? Is that the Public Debt Administration, which you founded in 2005, supposed to report here what donations are, that every dinar has been used, and I claim that there is a certificate of goods to be delivered. KFW Ipeks, as a member of this group, banking, German, state, actually places goods on this market. It's not a problem, the seller sells if he finds a buyer. Are we the ones who need to swallow everything you say is a good job? Can the city of Belgrade be praised for the results of the same project that involved investments in the water infrastructure? I'm not going to claim what the unions were telling you at the time, that it was known exactly which company every plumber should be bought from. I'm not going to say they weren't as barbaric as they say, but to me a secret, a silence, a birth of doubt. The first of the costs, dear citizens, says in this loan - taxes and other public costs, as well as costs of imports, will not be financed from these funds. Credits are not imported, money is not imported, goods are imported, goods of foreign producers, which you have widely opened by liberalising the door, so that everything and everything can be imported, but that's not enough. You're saying that the credit we're paying is favourable, you don't know, dear citizens, how much interest, because it's written in Article 4, but 1.2% of the margin per year for the total amount, 0.5% of the costs on the total loan, so you see how much it is at 12 million euros. If we're eventually late on payment, if we couldn't use the credit as a state, I doubt it'll even be serviced in time, in which case KfW Bank has the right to raise the interest rate by 2% a year. You claim that 2% of that loan is like interest. It's not true, she doesn't know how big she is. So, apart from the fact that interest can be increased by 2%, the borrower, that's the state of Serbia, will also have to pay 2% of the interest also above that agreed, and as compensation for what we didn't pay back in time. For undrawn funds, 0.25% of the total amount of credit, which in the last year, dear citizens, cost you a million euros. In addition, we, as a government, are a borrower, or a state of Serbia, who, on behalf of all of us, assumes that KfW bank, when it gives us credit, can decide that if it finds that we are not using the loan, at any time the strictest conditions and the greatest damage is prescribed. But if we decide to repay the loan before the time comes, it won't be possible. Until KfW Bank finds a market and a similar state of Serbia, which will receive on such difficult terms credit, there is no premature return and it says in this paper that you delivered to us. The document says goods will be obtained through international competition. Why didn't you tell us what was delivered in the first two stages? Why, as an MP, do I have to manage to come up with a report on the city's government press conferences, where and how many apartments have some of these heat meterers been installed? Why don't you boast if this is such a good deal? On purpose, at the last minute, I leave the most interesting detail. Mr. Minister, your predecessor, signing this agreement in April last year, said the total job was 32m euros, of which eight donations from the German government, which I do not dispute, 12m credit funds written in this contract, and 10m local participation, while twom euros from the German government were intended for technical assistance and consulting services. Dear Mr. Minister, with your signature in this 2007 budget, the purpose is not of 10m euros, as you said, of local participation, but of 12m euros, but of which you do not say for what purpose, so my story with the first loan published in international contracts, that commissions are the ways of life of this government, and through consulting services, you have mainly proven. Which proves that you do not respect the word of the People's Representative, that you do not respect this people's warning that we cannot base our economic life on greed and commissions, but not on lies. To what extent this is a colourful lie, to which extent this discredits the government and the government that assures us that for our sakes it takes this kind of credit, by borrowing generations, I will have the opportunity to make later reports of another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4597	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of DS and SRS. The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4598	Dear gentlemen, the greatest handicap and the minus of our parliament is that the right side, whatever appears, is energetically against, and the left side is always for. We will certainly progress towards European integration if this gets a little mixed up for and against the left and right, and when we follow the problem, when we discuss for or against, in discussions we will plead by problem, by problem. This is the case if both colleague Tabakovic and everyone else should say - gentlemen, all the credit lines, the preferential lines that stand, which we have a chance to get, hurry up, bring out, that this country, the desired consumption, and this country's eager investment, would help start some investment cycle. Gentlemen, understand that we, precisely because of the huge delay and the whole of our socio-economic situation, have lost our chance to participate in a large number of credit lines. Bulgaria and Romania only used several preferential credit lines for a few billion euros in agriculture. In that sense, in good faith, I absolutely write and I am against excessive borrowing, but when preferential credit lines appear, with extremely good conditions, we should generally force the Government, that these preferential lines are assigned to the Government to find them, and that all the chances that exist in European state banks, European development funds, European and world institutions, we should use these preferential lines with good credit conditions and, in particular, to local self-government and municipalities, indicate what kind of credit lines they exist to take advantage of. In Serbia, where local self-government has managed to find these specific credit funds, to increase investment funds by its own activity, and the environments have changed. This is how other countries change thanks to one part, not only to their economic wealth but also to preferential credit lines. It's obvious that this is a preferential credit line, because there's 2% interest, where it's written in Article 2, and that's 12 million. At 20 million, since it's eight donations, it comes out 1.25 interest, so with all those criminal provisions that the colleague was talking about, it's a highly unlikely loan, because you know very well that current investment loans are 3-4%, these are the best possible loans. There's no better loan. There won't be, nor will there be better loans than 3-4%. One weighted interest rate of 1.25% on this 20m-euro line, so it's God's gift, you understand, gentlemen. It doesn't matter if Mirko Cvetkovic or someone from the Democratic Party, or someone from the Radical Party, we need to talk about the numbers, gentlemen. That would really be the most important thing. If we talk about borrowing as a problem, to speak selectively, that what is completely when it comes to preferential lines to support, to ask for them to increase, and on the other hand, we and this left side also submit to the criticism of excessive debt and budget imbalances, the imbalance of budget, caused by excessive public spending. I completely agree that on the left hand side, we must say, our external balance, that is, the external trade deficit, is partly created and because we defend inflation with a low rate and so on. We should also say, as you, this right-hand side, should require that the credit lines that can be used, which are below 3 - 4% on an annual basis, are absolutely activated quickly and enter our budget spending, especially with a grace period, because we are expected to be able to return those loans with the growth of the gross social product of 8%. Why do we need loans? Why are Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia the biggest borrowers? Why are the banks coming? Why is capital coming? We all know why. Because we are eager to spend, which is why Serbian citizens and these countries still use Ante Markovic's refrigerators. That's why. I've often written, refrigerators from the times of Ante Markovic, TV and the rest we still use, which is why we're eager to borrow. (From O.R.: It's not true. 100 percent is true, Tomo, but you have to go to the province to see if it's true or not. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I do not live in New York. ) Okay, but you're more in Belgrade. We have a development fund. It's our development bank. We have a Development Fund that exclusively works, Mr. Cvetkovic is a member of the Management Board of the Fund, he can speak, the Development Fund is exclusively a development bank. He's no longer the old institution that transferred the money. He's working on a purely banking loan, the difference between an active and a passive interest rate. The entire Fund administration is supported only by 5% of these differences, as one truly effective institution. I happen to know this problem, because I'm a credit user, in front of the company where I worked. There are investment loans from 1% to 3%. It also generally allocates the fund in its economic capacity and from the budget of the preferential credit line for various purposes. You already know, and I would like to appeal right now that the Fund's funds are being activated as soon as possible, that regular work begins, because you know that two credit lines, special, where one billion is set aside, is one for micro-employment, and the second start-up credits for beginners are not yet operationally available, and a large number of requests processed waits and a large number of people expect, from 5,000 to 30,000 euros of these lines, to start, to start this business, to start on these lines. It would really be good for us, if possible, to gradually talk about problems in the way that problems deserve, and first of all to dictate numbers, both on the left and on the right. So, if this line requires saying it's borrowing and this line is gonna ruin the country, then people are gonna... (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: What is the interest? ) The interest is 2% in Article 2, but it is 1.25 to 20 million. Why don't we go back? If we're not going back, what are we taking? I'm picking up a pay phone. If you say, hypothetically, what happens if we don't come back, then we don't have to take anything. We take to return, not to be late. Tomo, if you're in time after the grace period in power, I'm sure this line won't burden you, and you'll solve local problems, Mr. Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4599	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. The only thing I don't know is if this account of mixing and dividing can be applied to the Assembly, it's in math. Replica, MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4600	Mr. Vujadinović, it is a principle debate, but you cannot mix the investment loan and refrigerators of Ante Markovic, and personal consumption, it has nothing to do with each other. It's a loan from the German Developmental State Bank, which is not 20, binds the entire transaction into 20 million, of which eight million donations. No donations, no interest, only expenses, sir. There's expenses to the total. You know how much that weighting is? I risk giving Serbia an indicative price to the public of this loan, and I responsibly argue that it is not below 6% on an annual basis. All credit users, who used in-law loans, know that the lowest price is 6,85 to 7,13 on this type of credit, on a similar deadline and grace period. Let's not tell citizens that something is easier and better than it really is because there's no need. You want to talk openly, with facts. We always do it that way. There's no need to blur things out and say that some other interest and expenses are from who they are. Total borrowing is a problem. With this loan that we're talking about today, the problem is that he's not so positive, it's not as good as you're talking about, it's not enough to say preferential. Do you know, I'm a banker by profession, I have a long-term experience banking, every loan whose interest for the period of use approaches the value of the total loan is acceptable or not, but if it crosses the interest per year using the value of the loan, it's an unfavourable loan. This one's borderline to be favourable, but the problem is whether or not it's used for what. I'm telling you how many feet of pipe is replaced, water lines, for that earlier loan to the plumbing infrastructure or the one for the heating. With this loan, we finance the export of German producers. We're funding a German state bank, which here has found suitable ground for a credit rating. That's a fact. Let me remind you, when the current chairman, Mr Albianic, submitted an amendment asking for Mr Dinkic's paw and hat to be placed by the Infrastructure Agency, this was precisely the reason, because all these loans are being placed through that agency. And if that were lucrative, it also tells you that Mr Dinkic with severe pain gave up control of what he signed in 2006. I call on you as an economist to really talk about these things in just a language of fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4601	National MP Rajko Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4602	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226. In a certain way, I'm sorry for turning this debate around. The occasion is the text in tonight's Evening News. That text says, here it is on page 18 -- counting under the skull. In fact, the news would probably be happy, given that the announced settlement of Roma in Gazela, here under the bridge, is not Mr. Zivojin Mitrovica, whom Belgrade journalists, and my acquaintances, call the "Zika Slayer", said the following: "The address to which the Roma will move in the city, do not want to discover yet". If that is true, then the question arises - whether the city authorities respect the principle of public, democratic principle and human rights or whether it is the paradigm of their work and behaviour that is characteristic of totalitarian regimes. I have previously both written and verbally informed Mr. President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, of the city mafia, which created a team of Roma, of which individuals should be found in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4603	Please, Mr. Djuric, take care of such expressions that are not necessary, but facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4604	Mr. Chairman, don't interrupt me. I'm a very decent man and I know what rules of conduct are. For the right thing, however, we must find an adequate word. Mr. Micunovic, my friend, said himself that Mrs. Rada Hrustanovic is the biggest thief of the Democratic Party and I have repeatedly quoted it publicly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4605	Mr. Djuric, I don't know why he's taking this kind of use of the term. Please behave with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4606	Please, Mr Albianic, ask the Minister of State and Local Self-Government for an answer - how is it possible to build a settlement for the Roma secretly? Excuse me, what country do we live in? In democratic or totalitarian Serbia? The second thing, I also ask for an answer to the question -- with representatives of the Belgrade Jewish community, I was visiting city officials. (President: Time.) I was accepted by Mr. Nenad Bogdanović. It's about the former KC (concentration camp) being in the hands of privates. Gentlemen, we are the only country in the world, watch out, the only country in the world, where they trade with former concentration camps. To this day, there were not only Jews, Roma, but 30,000 Serbs in that camp. Please, we want to have an answer. Finally, Mr. Albianic, as a man, I couldn't sleep at night. Today, "Justice" was published on the front page, "Cadu awaits Djindjic's fate". Please, I demand as a man, a citizen of this country and a MP from Mr. Jocic to answer this question - is it true that our fellow MP, Vladan Batic, is it true or not? Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4607	We'll forward your question to the competent institutions. The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, and then the MP Milan Lukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was really surprised how short the opening statement of Minister Cvetkovic was, and all those who carefully studied the material we received knew and why. I expected that he would try in any way to put at least a little bit of a turnaround on what is being offered today to the Serbian parliament. But you'll see for yourself, I'll show you in the next few minutes how bitter what's wrapped up in this neighborhood is really going to be. We also heard some flat-rate representatives of the ruling coalition -- that this loan is extremely favourable. I'd like to ask, firstly, Mr. Secretary, if he can listen. Mr Cvetkovic, you are here not to speak to the heads of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group, but to listen carefully to the MPs and to answer the questions you are asked. I don't know why you think that's funny. You're new here. There's more, though, time to learn proper manners, but I hope you'll correct these mistakes you've made so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4609	Minister Cvetkovic always listened carefully to the MPs and was present here.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4610	Mr. Albianic, I'd like you to stick to your role and not interrupt me in the future. So we've heard here an incredible claim that this is an incredible loan. He says the interest will be, you don't know exactly what it is, but it'll be below 3%. That's just not true. Of course, another very important fact. We've heard stories here about a grace period. So it is clear that the previous speakers do not distinguish between the commitments the borrower has, which is the Republic of Serbia, and the obligations it will have under this loan of local self-government, which will benefit the funds. But here we go from the beginning. With this loan agreement, the Republic of Serbia, which is a borrower, is obliged to submit funds at an interest rate of 2% annually, for a period of 12 and a half years, with a grace period of two and a half years, under appropriate special agreements to local heating companies in the Republic of Serbia. But this does not mean that the Republic of Serbia, as a borrower, receives funds from the German KFV Development Bank in these conditions. On the contrary. The conditions under which the Republic of Serbia will receive these funds, firstly, are not known in advance, and secondly, from these facts that we have so far, it is clear that the price of the loan will be huge. What is very important is that the state of Serbia is already paying the wars and is already paying the fines and the penalty for the funds it has not withdrawn. Article 4 refers to the costs of undrawn assets, operating fees, interest payments and payments. It says in point 4.1: "The borrower will pay the costs for undrawn funds of 0.25% per year on outstanding amounts of loans". So at this point, given that this agreement was signed about 15 months ago, we pay 0.25% annually to the total amount of the approved loan of 12 and a half million euros, which is 30,000 euros a year. The next item is 4.2, where he says, "The borrower will pay a 0.5% operating fee also for the total amount of loans, i.e. 12m euros, which makes up 60,000 euros annually." The next item says: "The borrower will pay interest on the loan at a rate set by KFV two days before the date of payment of the corresponding part of the loan, based on the effective cost of financing KFV on the euro-market of capital at the time of payment, plus the rate of 1.2% annually. "So, the margin from 1.2% to 12m euros is 144,000 euros per year. It's very important, therefore, to realize that it's said here openly -- two days before the payment of KFV will determine what is going to be the interest rate we're going to pay. It's absolute untrue and absolute untruth that those who say how much interest there will be. Because actually, at this point, nobody knows. The second thing, the Republic of Serbia will have no impact on the amount of the interest. When we look at the provisions later, they are very firm, very precise. You'll see that if we don't pay off what we're asked to do at the moment, we'll meet up with it -- that we'll have to answer to international arbitration and then, with the costs of that arbitration, we'll pay for all these charges. But these costs that are already certain, 0.25% on undrawn assets, 0.5% on behalf of the operating fee, also annually, and 1.2%, and that's what's certain, even if we don't withdraw a single euro from this loan. That is a total of 30,000 euros plus 60, plus 144 and 234 thousand euros will be the cost of this loan annually, even if we don't withdraw any of these permits. Given that it is paid at 12.5 years, 12 and a half times these 234 thousand euros, it receives an amount of 2m 925 000 euros in fixed costs on a 12m-euro loan. So, gentlemen on the left, as we heard earlier, a quarter of the loan rate is going to waste on the fixed costs that we're going to pay, regardless of interest. This, of course, isn't all. It is further said that the borrower pays operating fees before the first withdrawal of funds. So, for the past 15 months, if we haven't withdrawn a single euro, we're paying all these costs. Furthermore, the borrower will repay the loan in a maximum of 18 equal half-years of wars, the first of which reaches six months of the project's day of preparedness. Now look how well the German development bank KfW has provided, so white bear and whales, and rain forests will probably never be this well protected. He says, if the loan payments are not available to KfW when they arrive, KfW will have the right to raise the interest rate by 2% a year. So on this unknown interest, it might be five, it might be six, maybe seven, that nobody knows in advance, if it's too late to pay the war, it says in Article 4 of point 6, that KfW alone, without any possibility of influence by the borrower, will have the right to raise the interest rate for the remaining 2% per year. This therefore represents an increase in the basic interest itself. Then he says, interest on late payments will be paid without delay at the first request of KfW, Article 4 point 7. KfW can ask a borrower to pay compensation for late payments in addition to the payment war. So we've previously had an increase in this interest, and now we've got pens that, regardless of that increase, we're going to pay if we're late with a payday at least one day and at least one war. He says, this increase will be in the total amount of 2% above the basic rate, which is effective on the day of arrival. The basic rate is Deutsche Bundesbank's interest rate, so 2% above the commercial interest rate of the German Bundesbank, we'll have to pay as a penalty if we're one day late in paying off this loan. The way in which the borrower's funds will be calculated shall be paid to KfW as a lender. Point 4.9 says, undrawn or prematurely paid amounts of the loan will be subtracted from the payment war that is the last in line with the payment schedule, unless a different write-down model is agreed and agreed. Then he says KfW can apply all the sums received in the following way. First, for the costs of the fee referred to here and for the achievements shall be the amounts of the article. 4.6 and 4.7. So when that debt is paid, they will first pay off this fine interest, they will raise 2% above the agreed interest rate; then they will pay off these pences that we pay for the interest and then they will charge the regular interest; only the third one for the rejection of funds is regular interest, and then at the end of the day what remains applies to the regular war. Do you think there is a possible situation in Serbia that all of this will take place on an up-to-date basis, that no local self-government will be late for a day with the fulfillment of its obligations, which will, among other things, be paid to KfW at Frankfurt in Maine in the amount of foreign currency. As for suspension, withdrawal and early repayment, it is said that the borrower can early pay off the loan in the amount of one or more war payments, along with the payment of compensation for early payment, which will be determined by KfW and will be accounted for on the basis of the situation in the capital market that prevails at that time. The loss of interest and the possibility of reinvestment will be taken into account. So it's clear that even if we pay off this debt in advance, we're going to have to pay the entire interest. As you like to say, in the most transparent way, point 5.4 speaks, which says: if any of the situations listed in the previous members happen and are not eliminated in the period set by KfW, and this will be up to 30 days, KfW can, so pay attention - in the case referred to in point 3 of Article 5 - ask for the immediate repayment of all amounts of loans, therefore, the total amount, and all the other accompanying costs, as well as the current payment of the total interest. After a year or two of using this loan, if we're late to pay the war, KfW determines fines, determines an increase in interest by 2%, so determines a 2% penalty and says, you have 30 days to pay all this. If we do not pay off this charge within 30 days, they are authorised under this agreement to ask us for a full loan and to ask us for all interest for the whole period. So, can any of you on the left after this come out and cite any member of this bill that represents this advantage of a huge, wonderful benefit and says that the government just needs to commit itself to asking for these loans and the more these loans, the better for Serbia. Why, for such a miserable asset, and 20 million dinars at the state level are a miserable asset, why don't you use part of the five billion euros in the foreign exchange reserves you're boasting about. Why don't you use a billion and some of the National Investment Plan? In fact, you pay extremely expensive foreign capital and I would like the government of the Republic of Serbia to sign such a contract for the foreign exchange reserves of this country. You sign with any state in the world and place the state reserves of the Republic of Serbia and with these conditions and with these guarantees, the SRS parliamentary group will vote first. The consequences of this agreement are far-reaching and no one can know in advance what the price of this loan will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4611	You don't have a word. Mr. Sarovic used the left-hand term, which is not precise enough and does not refer to an individual MP. Please, he had to name and name you, you quoted him as Mr. Sarovic. National MP Dragan Vujadinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4612	Dear gentlemen, I'll be very brief. Article 101(1) of the replica. I just think we should talk in good faith and quote the numbers. It's an appeal and a call. Therefore, Article 4.2 to 0.5 is not a year, but a one-time fee. It's always a processing fee requires - 0.5% for the entire amount. It's at 10 years 0,05 Mr. Sarovic, not 0.5 a year. Secondly, the interest is defined. Euribor plus 1.2 - it's the least that can exist at this point in investment loans. That's very good, and that's what's been said afterwards. Why take if we're gonna be late, if we're not gonna use it? Why do we take credit to improve the failures of local heating systems if we don't pull the tranches or not return them regularly? All that after it comes out, that two million hypothetically, we don't take to give those two million, we take to use, do and get back on time, and pay Eurobor plus 1.2% and plus 0.05 a year on one-off fees. That's the truth, he can't get out of it. Let's talk about whether it's expensive or cheap, not say three million has expenses. Why are we doing this? There's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4613	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really believe that we all got the same text of the bill, and here are all my colleagues who look at Article 4.2 says - the borrower will pay the compensation for the business of 0.5. So not 0.05 but 0.5% on the total amount of loans. The total amount of loans is 12m euros, 0.5% is 60,000 euros. Point 4.1 says: undrawn funds 0.25% a year. We have so far not withdrawn a single euro, and it is paid on undrawn funds 0.25%, it is on a 12mm loan of 30,000 euros annually. Point 4.3 shows the margin. We'll pay the $1.2% a year on a 12 million loan, that's 144,000 euros. When these three amounts are added together, it is 234,000 euros. When multiplied by 12.5 years, how long this loan will last, that is 2,925,000 euros in parallel costs per 12m-euro loan. So these are just expenses. In addition to the costs of the borrower, therefore, Article 4.3a - the borrower will pay interest on the loan, at the rate set by KFW two days before the date of payment of the corresponding part of the loan. So that's what the law says. No one in this room knows how much interest there will be. So these 2,925,000 euros are side costs. Interests still have to be paid, and the cost will be incomparably higher if it gets anywhere behind. I will also remind you of the fact that, also in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, before the borrower, so the Republic of Serbia, any contract signed with local self-government, in order to forward those funds that have been withdrawn, it must translate the contract into German, deliver to KFW for approval. Only after the approval has been granted can the local self-government continue to pay any amount, and only then goes that part with, firstly, an increase in the interest itself, as in Article 4.6 KFW as a lender has been authorised. He says, if the loan payments are not available to KFW when they arrive, KFW will have the right to raise the interest rate by two percent a year. So if in addition to these costs that are almost 2%, which are fixed, so 2% on the annual level, and almost 25% on the entire loan level, if they set the interest rate at 5%, we're late for one war, that's an automatic 7%. And in addition to raising interest, Article 4.7 - KFW may ask the borrower to pay compensation for late payments in addition to the payment rate. So, we'll pay what we owe, and as compensation, we'll pay another 2% above the basic rate, which is effective on the day of arrival, and the basic interest is the commercial interest, the interest rate of Deutsche Bundesbank, as the basic rate applied to the relevant maturity date. So that's the foam. We have costs of nearly three million euros, we have interest that we don't know what it is, we have an increase in interest of 2% in the event of a delay and we have a 2% penalty above the interest that is at that point. So I repeat once again, no one can predict all the consequences and how much this loan will eventually cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4615	The word has the People's MP Milan Vukovic, and then the MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4616	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us a bill on confirming the loan and financing agreement between the KFW and the Republic of Serbia, and on the rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia -- phase three. I think here from previous speakers we have heard these conflicts on the financial and economic viability of the Republic of Serbia throughout the arrangement, but we need to remind and ask, if someone is not clear, what does the third phase of rehabilitation of the local district heating system mean. In Serbia, however it is called, there are more than 3,600,000 housing units that are mostly heated in various ways, i.e. local remote heating systems. I think that in this area and this government, as well as previous governments since 2000, they have made it significant to raise energy efficiency in Serbia in terms of energy culture, because energy in the world is indivisible, it knows neither left nor right, it is final and its price should only be lower. One of the elements why this government should also fight to support such financial arrangements, which in technical terms means the realisation of the third phase, should be a guideline and European integration and those standards that we need to bring closer to the peoples of Europe who use gas, oil, electricity to warm up their space, but from the aspect of energy efficiency, protection, etc. Surely, the financial elements of the debt, credit and donation should be important, but not because I am a member of the government, but really if this Assembly supported most of the votes, according to a proposal from the Minister and Government, a budget that is almost eight billion euros, when it comes to a loan that is around 20m euros, as indicated in this bill, I have no doubt in support of this proposal and I would not enter these banking casinos. Normally, justice is the interests, they are with banks, with financial institutions in the interest shown, in the cost of credit, etc. And I'm sure they're very favourable, if Mr. Cvetkovic here has explained the law, and he should be supported on that side. On the technical side should be supported, because the third stage means, in the last six or seven years mostly local self-government has its own public and municipal enterprises dealing with the supply of heat energy, and the users of this part of the loan will certainly be those companies, local self-government bonds, etc. Through their technical conditions for the connection of facilities, newly built or those that connected to the district heating systems, they provided mandatory installation of so-called. calories, and that means that in the future, in order for these calories and remote systems to read the consumption of supplied heat energy, not by square as it is now in most Serbian cities, then we will have improved energy efficiency and rationality, in some way and justice. When we talk about energy efficiency, one who does not have the opportunity to meet the costs of heating up its space during the winter months, I am not speaking for myself, I am not in my space on the remote heating system, there may be 10% of the population of Serbia on that system, but every citizen in Serbia from this assembly should get the best possible support. I'm saying, when he has a month-by-month consumption of the calories delivered, not per square metre, underheated or overheated, I think he'll feel more comfortable, more comfortable, and he'll know it'll cost him that much. In addition, it is necessary to know, energy has its own price, precisely because it is final, and in this way the state will protect its citizens, because the local heating system, which has been developed in Serbia for the last 30 years, is mostly now on the mule, on the gas, means, on energy imports, they will be able to react through other forms of protection of these objects. So I hope very warmly that in front of this assembly we will have other draft laws that, above all, will be in the protection of objects, thermal insulation and convenience for our citizens. Through local administrations and other agencies, I mean the government's Energy Efficiency Agency, which is going to come up with more favourable credits to cover with various thermal insulations, by replacing windows and glass, which are major energy lossers, etc. I think we should uphold this law. Again, as far as these financial stories are concerned about credit, and about justice and interest, I don't think anyone's raising the illusion that they can get something free and the time of demagogy needs to be overcome. There's always a conspiracy theory for us, when we don't know what we're going to do, then everyone else is guilty, especially when they're Germans. I wish we had drawn to their technology before. Why is phase three here and KFW? Gentlemen, because probably in other countries, I wouldn't name it now, because we're all from Serbia, there's no technique, no technology that can deliver calories and ways of reading these calories by substations, we haven't resorted to that technology, gentlemen, after October 5th, we've defined ourselves to European integration, to the market economy, and this side of the left, to the right, whatever you want, knows what it's doing. I thank you for having this bill in July, because I think we're going to vote it by majority, and I think by the warm season, we're going to allow a lot of people to start using these funds, and then there's not going to be any worry about whether we're paying for the fact that the tranches aren't being withdrawn this much or that much percent. The chance of the law being passed in July, to benefit from that in the first heat season. I'll remind you, although it may be a professional thing, but any energy involved, through transport costs, losses and conversion of heat and electricity into heat or vice versa, or gas into heat etc., no efficiency of efficiency exceeds 43 percent, and very often it moves around 20 percent. You put that in your bank guarantees, and it's normal that when you go to the bank to get a loan, the bank, since it's a financial institution, will offer you more terms than it gets the funds. It is perfectly normal, the interest is justice, as I said, and since our minister, that the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who knows what he is doing, has proposed this law, I am sure that at this point he is the best proposal for this technical realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4617	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4618	I think the dignity of the National Assembly should be respected here, even if you are from the DS, that applies to you. First of all, your minister didn't come up with this. This is from 2006. Secondly, when you say there's nothing left for free and it's demagogy, what did Germany give us for free? To get you on a third-stage loan, right? We're not little children, don't explain to us what's inexplicable. Germany dragged you into this, gave you phase one, so she gave you phase two, and for phase three, we're going to borrow now. Why, when Germany is wonderful, which did not continue to fund you, which had no confidence in local self-government companies? Which is Serbia's guarantee of this loan, why Serbia is forming an agreement for the company that will use the funds, because the company is paying back the debt. Where exactly do the Germans go through Serbia, how many loans have been taken by local self-government from other banks and local self-governments are paying them off. There is no obligation of the Republic of Serbia to these loans. Just Germans, our friends wonderful and dear, and they're the only ones with calories and they're the only ones who can measure the distance of energy consumption. Who are you kidding? Who are you talking to? First, the Danes are the top of that technology. The Germans are in every technology at the top, but here are the Danes at your top, if you wanted top-notch technology. No, you wanted the Germans, you're the party that put Germany into parliament. You're a party that has to provide Germany here in every way possible to raise its reputation. Even when Cobel, the ambassador of Germany, says that only since 1912, when he said that we have in our composition Kosovo and Metohija, without us being in Kosovo and Metohija, that doesn't stop you from saying - what do I need your money for? Why do I need your money, to give you Kosovo and Metohija, and you're investing me in improving city heating. People don't have the bread to eat, you're in charge, and you're improving heating in heating cities. Has it occurred to you that in the village you have water, road, good trafo station and electricity? It didn't occur to you to take credit for every rural household to get a tractor under these conditions. No, you're asphalting the city center, you're giving heat to whoever has the cheapest heating to vote for you, because that's where the voter's concentration is the highest. You talk about demagogy, you know what it means to run a state and what it means to take care of all its citizens evenly. It's the easiest thing to do. Come on now and who's got the expensive car to give him a cheap loan to fix that car, so let's say for cars, "alpha Romeo", "mercedes", "audi", you get cheap credit so people can fix it. That's it, that's your loan now, so don't celebrate what you can't celebrate. Cover your ears. This is what Dinkic came up with for you, and you are now your minister, and he has not yet joined the ministry. If this lady wasn't here next to him, he wouldn't even know what it is, he's worried about how he's moving the stock market, how much he's earned today, and how much tomorrow he cares about your credit.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4619	The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, and then the MP Radoslav Jevremovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the moment of Serbia, is not easy, when it is in a difficult economic crisis and social misery, and all of this affects a large number of citizens, we are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia dealing with the certificates of agreements, conventions, some even from 1985. Why am I saying this? We should be ashamed of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who chose us, because the activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since the January elections and the verification of the mandate in February of this year, and today, as you know, in mid-July, it has come down to the adoption of several acts that are harmful and unconstitutional in nature. In this assembly council, therefore, to remind you, we have passed a law imposing excise duty on liquid and oil gas, equalising domestic and foreign juice producers, and you have refused from the ruling majority to abolish the value added tax for babies, for equipment, food and clothing for babies and you have passed the anti-constitutional Law on civil servants. That's practically all. You didn't say that before January 2007. You said we had to work a lot faster and more, because life couldn't wait, with a promise of prosperity if the democratic bloc made a government again, and you only made a government for four months. What are your results, I said - shameful. Now you're in no hurry, when we can afford that luxury to deal with these kinds of issues. You have divided the loot and now slowly to some new elections, when you will try to double-cross Serbian citizens. When you act like this, it is no wonder that you are proposing a law establishing a loan agreement and financing between KFW Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia - rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia, phase 3. I don't want to comment on the amount of loans, not on purpose, because my colleagues have done it in one extraordinary way, I want to do it for the citizens, just for the citizens' sake, to say a few words about the background of your government since 2000, and all the conclusions on this law and the loan itself will draw itself. This bill is the result of a catastrophic economic policy run by all Dosovan governments. This law has continued old practices since 2000, and it comes down to this state living on loans, loans and the sale of state wealth. That's not how you run the household. That's how you rule in the short term, with only one goal, personal interest. How else can we interpret what you're doing? You need some money, you sell all the cement stores, you sell all three of them, so for a while it's worth it, you need some money, you take one loan, you need money, you sell the tobacco industry, you take the credit, you sell the brewery, and so on. You started selling water too. Crediting forever here in front of the Serbian Parliament. Now you've got your eye on the most powerful state-owned enterprises. We're reading there's a big fight going on for NIS, EPS, Telekom, Airport and something like that. That's how you rule, and that's how anyone can rule. It's not a rule. It's an unholy behavior. With regard to what I was talking about at the beginning, Serbia should be a warehouse for you, a warehouse, to buy their money side goods, and then give them back that same money with the same pay, interest and everything that goes with it, and the penalty if we're not pedantic about it. That's how we just fail. In one of my previous discussions, I said that we should learn from their behavior, not from the way we treat ourselves. We are not obliged to develop industry and provide work for foreign countries and for their workers. We must primarily take care of our own interests. What would you do today and what would you do if what you call the retrograde regime you inherited hadn't preserved everything that could have been preserved in the conditions of sanctions, blockades, bombings, the Satanization of your friends from the West at all and that it was privatized? What would you sell today, or what would keep you in power? Now, there's another story that's being sold to this neighborhood, and so is you. But it will endanger the basic functioning of the state and that's what's wrong with us. We're not worried about you. Your pockets are full after this, but the fate of the state is at stake. It is not a comfort for us that you will fall from power when you sell everyone out of the house, out of the yard and shut down the household. That's how you act, the exact same way. On the other hand, another fact is very interesting. It is a fact that our foreign exchange reserves, in your frequent statements, grow, but shyly or in no way disclose the reasons why. Again, I want to say because of the citizens of Serbia: the main reason is that citizens sell their foreign exchanges to a much greater extent than they buy. So what they somehow earned in the previous period, for which we constantly argue as it was, must have been difficult, now selling for mere survival, and some savings today can't even be talked about, because it's simply impossible. I'll talk about the overindulgence of the citizens. You're doing all this, I'd say, in the fanatical atmosphere of our false approach to the European Union. Why do I say fake? If we remember the promises of seven years ago, we should have been a member of the European Union already today. He who does not keep his promises, for men who do not lie, is a liar. Personally, as a real and rational man, I suspect that we will soon, and perhaps even enter the European Union at all, but you need that hack to the minds of citizens, to do what you do under the guise of approaching the European Union, and in fact do nothing at all, just borrowing the state and selling out what's worth a lot more. I would remind you that the 2000 best businesses in Serbia are privatised for about two billion euros. You're saying we're getting closer to the European Union, we're getting ready, we're about to enter, and all of this just to open the market. Don't, gentlemen of the government, insult the intelligence of the citizens and after seven years of government telling us that we are in reform and that we have to endure just a little more, just one more step, and in fact, until the state through the loss of all wealth becomes a regular tycoon service, which will control life in the country through water, electricity and fuel control, etc. When you take loans, remember that Serbia is not only Belgrade and around Belgrade, and that we all have to share this torment equally. I read in the paper that you received a 33m-euro loan for reconstruction, or reconstruction of bridges, but there is no mention of bridges in eastern or southern Serbia, these are the poorest parts of Serbia, to remind you. Also, do not look at and share Serbia with such things with party eyes, so on the Serbian map after the election everything that is blue and most blue, forget until the next election. As we discuss these five points, we have been delivered, meanwhile, the proposal for a protocol validation law along with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, etc. I think the climate is more difficult to influence from the impact of people living in Serbia. Let this be our priority, give the laws that improve the economic position of citizens, which you promised and turned out to be Serbian citizens, and we will easily ratify all this afterwards. This shows that you are running away from responsibility, from reality, and that you do not recognize problems in the country. You live far from the life of an ordinary and average citizen of Serbia. I'm only saying this because of citizens who are under media torture and blockade, because all media is under absolute control by the party in power. Your fall in the long run, for all the above, is inevitable. The sooner we take you down with power, the more harmful the effects will be, and the easier the citizens will pay off your loans. I am simply surprised by the discussion of MPs from the ruling majority, who say we should rush towards borrowing, although the conditions in this credit arrangement are entirely uncertain. That fanatical call shows that you're here on an ordinary assignment, and I would remind you that it's a debt, and especially such a long, very bad friend, you're learning something from folk proverbs. For this reason, I say once again, the Serbian Radical Party will vote against this proposal. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4621	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Jevremovic, and then a National MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing new commitments and burdens for the budget and receipts of already poor citizens of Serbia. That is exactly how we are facing the draft law on the validation of the loan agreement and financing between KFW, i.e. the German Development Bank, Frankfurt in Main, and the Republic of Serbia, rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia, phase III. And, look at the wonders, as soon as there's a million digits there's a God or younger one. In this case, the figure is 20m euros, which was initially replaced by Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. There's probably some VAT of 5, 10, 15 or 18%. What to say about this loan agreement and financing between KFW Frankfurt in Majna and the Republic of Serbia, except that it is very bad for the state of Serbia and that it will lead to Serbia's borrowing, especially if it is borne in mind that the Republic of Serbia's budget has enough resources to finance the project. The question also raises why the National Investment Plan is proposed to finance such projects. Let me move on to a specific financing agreement. Article 1, item 1, point 2, states - the borrower will distribute funds to selected local heating companies in the Republic of Serbia, which will be the project's agencies. The question is, what are the selected companies? Is it possibly a DS yellow company or is it a DSS company, or maybe even some encrypted companies? Once we get a closer look at this agreement, there will be a project implementation agency again, and with the agency there is the possibility of hiring your staff, godfathers, wives, relatives. Article 2(2) of point 1 states - the borrower will fully focus funds on REA (project implementation agencies) according to specific loan agreements, at an interest rate of 2% per year, for a period of twelve and a half years, including a grace period of two and a half years, starting from the date of the first withdrawal according to the relevant special agreements. Interests of 2% per year are listed here, but not all Serbian citizens will pay. There'll be another percentage. The borrower undertakes to pay 0.5% as a compensation for operating on the total amount of loans, which is 60,000 euros. Also, Article 4(4) of point 3 states - the borrower will pay interest on the loan at a rate determined by KFW two days before the date of payment of the corresponding part of the loans, based on the effective cost of financing KFW on the euro market of capital at the time of payment for the most approximate maturity in the part of the loan to be paid, plus the rate of 1.2% per year, which is 144,000 euros. Also, the fixed interest rate will be binding for the entire period of the corresponding part of the loan. We still have 1.2% to pay for Serbian citizens. And besides, we don't know what the real interest is on this loan. In Article 4(4), paragraph 4.1, the borrower will pay the costs of undrawn funds of 0.25%. Knowing your work and advocacy, I would not be surprised to be caught by members of 4.6 and 4.7, and here we are another 2%, plus 2% on the burden of Serbian citizens. In Article 5, which relates to suspension, withdrawal and temporary payment, and you probably won't use it much, it is a very interesting position 5.1, where it is stated – the borrower can give up the loan amount only with prior approval by KFW, which means that only with prior approval by KFW the borrower can give up the loan amount. This means that if KFW does not approve, there is no withdrawal and everything has to be paid. Furthermore, Article 5(5) states that the borrower may, with the exception of a prior notice of 30 days, temporarily repay the loan in the amount of one or more wars paid together with the payment of the early payment compensation to be determined by KFW and will be accounted for on the basis of the capital market situation that prevails at that time. It will take into account the loss of interest and the possibility of reinvestment for the original remaining loan period. This tells us that, and if there's any chance of early repayment of the loan, it's going to have to be paid. Since everything will be determined by KFW, the German Development Bank, as much as they ask, you will give, that is, how they play, so you will play. It is very interesting that Article 5 paragraph 3(e), which refers to emergency circumstances and the possibility of KFW being able to suspend the withdrawal of the amount. The question is raised which are exceptional circumstances, circumstances which may prevent or seriously threaten the application, execution or purpose of the project or the execution of payment obligations expected from the borrower under this Agreement. There is a question that these are extraordinary circumstances, because for you and your friends from the West, in addition to the emergency circumstances, there are additional emergency circumstances, which you should certainly enter into this agreement, and you know very well what these circumstances are. You will vote this loan agreement and funding between the German Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia. It's a rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia, phase three, but you should know that the phase three is the final phase of your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4623	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4624	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I listen to some colleagues who support this government, I feel like we're back in 2001. Something's good, something's free. I remember that big amount of donation promise, that you'll get something for free, that citizens will get better. Instead of donations for these six, here's the seventh year, we've only been getting loans, loans that you've explained are favourable, that the state benefits from them and citizens. When you look at a law like this, as you have suggested here, it comes to the conclusion that many things are not said, many things are not explained, and that whoever has the means and gives credit there is much more to be gained than it looks here. Some colleagues used to go out here for a pay phone, and they gave arguments that there was nothing left for nothing. Let's agree it doesn't, but I don't think it's right to charge anything twice. It's still not right if it's charged twice, so you're still trying to convince the man that he's okay. That's what your authority looks like. Here was the story of installing calories, a device to measure the use of heat. Now let me ask someone who defended this position of government, how will an ordinary citizen get to that device? Its price is about 1,500 euros, as I recall. How can he buy it? You took out a loan, you set up a local self-government to use funds from that loan, she bought local self-government and calories, and now they're on the market. How's he gonna buy a citizen that? No money, he'll take the loan. From who? Not from the Agency, not from the state, but from the business bank. On what terms? Much more unfavourable than those who are otherwise unfavourable. That's the problem. They're going to pay interest on those funds he took and that he's defined, but he's going to pay this other interest, the one you're saying is only 1.2%, they're going to pay that interest through the heat supply price twice. That's what it looks like when a yellow company takes care of Serbian citizens. The criteria you will establish for obtaining these funds, together with the KFW financial institution, are of great interest to me to these criteria, especially for these past five or six years when there was a Transfer Assets Act for cities and municipalities, where you treated cities and municipalities the way that it was owned in that city, i.e. in the municipality, and so you determined the funds. The assumption is that this too will be the choice of public enterprises dealing with the supply of heat to be one of the criteria whether DOS is in power or someone else. Let's not talk about how you made donations, and what little you got, you only assigned to municipalities where you were in power. That's what it looks like when you get the authorities. As far as the law itself is concerned, and that this is exactly what I just said, you can see it already in this article. It is said - the borrower will distribute funds to selected local heating companies in the Republic of Serbia, which will be the project's agencies and, in accordance with Article 2 of this Agreement, will make sure that the funds are used exclusively for the recovery of its local heating system. Of course, they don't want someone else's. But what are the criteria, who will determine? This is already seen from the following sentence - the borrower and KFW will decide on details of the project, including criteria for the selection of agencies, delivery of goods and services. If it's a loan, if we're in debt, if it's a dedicated loan, I guess we're the ones who need to decide who's going to provide the service and whose goods will be offered. The second is it's a donation. That's donor rights. Some time he doesn't have to give you the funds, he'll give you a donation in goods or in services, but this is where we're in charge. I guess it's our right to determine whose goods they'll be and whose service they'll be. So, since the German financial institution is already being asked, the origin of the goods will certainly be German. Who's going to do the installation? I wouldn't be surprised if it were the daughter of some German firm that exists here. Will it be more favourable for Serbian citizens? Probably not, because they have a monopoly. There is their financial institution behind them and they do not participate equally, but favourably in the market. In Article 3.3, it is said - if the total prices of goods and services to be financed from the funds and agreed by export contracts are reduced before the total withdrawal, KfW will have the right to decide on its own accord. So they've determined how many devices are going to be set up. They've determined the volume of work. Not the value, the volume of the work. So if we're gonna save something, we can't, because they can cut us off. When I said save, save to do more for the same amount of money. It's not here. What is the right of the Republic? She will be consulted without the right to stop KfW's will. Under Article 4.2, regardless of whether the full amount of the loan or part of it has been withdrawn, we will pay a fee of 0.5% to the funds provided for in this loan. Now here we come to that part in Article 4. 3a), as regards interest and method of forming the interest rate, so it is said - the borrower will pay interest at a rate determined by KfW two days before the date of payment of the corresponding part of the loan, based on effective financing costs on the euro capital market at the time of payment for the nearest available part of the loan to be paid, plus a margin of 1.2%. Someone here said the value of that loan was two, possibly three percent. Anyone who understands a little bit will read that this is about Eurybor. He's 4% now, plus 1.2% margin. So a minimum of 5.5%. It's the minimum amount of credit. When funds are withdrawn, in the next point, it is true that the entire interest rate will be formed based on the value of the eurobore, when the last tranche of money is withdrawn, which means that the interest will be worse, because those who took the loans, and even the short-term, always the banks in the last year-and-a-half put the debt reprogramme, inform the euro on the money market, so they have to charge them another 0.5, 0.7. 1% on the rest of the debt. That's how it's gonna be with this loan. It is still said in Article 4.3d - the interest rate of the account after the last withdrawal will be the basis for calculating interest from the day of the last withdrawal to the total payment. KfW will inform the borrower of such a calculated average interest rate. This will be done through registered letter, which will go by air mail, etc. This is the kind of protection mechanism anyone would like to have, which we agree to. I'd like to ask you a question - what do we need the National Investment Plan for then? Why do some MPs care here, talk about how scared they are, some municipalities are in charge, so how they're gonna pay off their debts? I'm asking-- how is the state going to pay off the debt? How long have you been in charge? Since I am a national MP, this is the 40th, 50th counterguarantee and the guarantee given by this Serbian assembly. And here you keep talking about how the state owes less and less, and you're pushing it into an ever-increasing dubiosis. You do not need such a policy, especially that the funds for such figures are sufficient in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia should be made and spent to contribute to a better life of citizens, not to be covered by various financial institutions, because for each guarantee we issue we must keep on a specific budget sub-calculation until the credit is paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4625	The People's Messenger, Momcilo Duvnjak, has the word, and then the Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the item of the agenda - a loan and financing agreement between KfW Frankfurt in Main and the Republic of Serbia and the renewal of the local heating system, phase three. Let me ask the Minister's first question right now - why do we need this loan? I'll be responsible for saying this is an unnecessary loan. To ask the citizens of Serbia in local self-government are we going to get a new meter of gas network, hot water grids, thermal grids, new substations, new boiler rooms, substation reconstruction, boiler room reconstruction? No, I don't. With this loan, Serbian citizens in local self-government are in charge of bringing in German heat consumers, so to speak. calories. I'll tell you one example, for a single house up to 200 square meters, a heat meter, so on. The calorie costs 180 euros, a common one, and the German one, which should be imported, costs 450 euros. It is your new democratic authority at the republican level, and it is preparing and preparing for the citizens of Serbia in local self-government. The speaker, as they call it, the left option and the right option, there is no right option, there is the name SRS, you always have to point out, that you know that the SRS, not the right option, says that there are only German heat meters, so on. calories. It's not true, there are both Danish, and Italian, and Hungarian and ours. We are already doing it in Serbia, those who are dealing with it, and we are already installing heat meterers, and if something is wanted by a government, or this current republican one to do good for Serbia, it should look up to the SRS. The SRS at the local level in Krusevec is the opposition party. We suggested a year ago in Krusevec, that these don't make much sense to us, as I like to call them, in Belgrade and here, since Serbia has held a monopoly on gasification, we proposed, as an opposition party, to choose a strategic gasification partner for Krusevec. A strategic partner was elected two months ago. You know what happened when the chosen strategic partner? Then came DS, DSS and G17, who will choose their strategic partner. We at the SRS in Krusevec were just asking to make it the cheapest. Finally, the price of gas connection in Krusevec turned out to be 420 euros per household. I don't think there's a cheaper price for gas in any of Serbia's cities. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: There is in Ariel. As for Ariel, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, you don't know anything, I have to explain everything to you, there's not one foot of gas left in Ariel, you have to check it out and see, because they're lying to you. In Ariel, if it hadn't been for Mr. Stevovic, you wouldn't have known how to do it, either, if you knew. As far as this law is concerned, we see here that there are predetermined companies in local self-government that will build on these cauldrons. There are certain companies here in advance, and we know that someone from the DS set it up. We at Kruševec had the same terms of one such loan that we had to take, I'm just going to ask these experts, experts from the ruling coalition, if there is any credit or loan that is favourable. I don't think there is, I'm not an economist, there's no credit, there's no loan. I mean, if you took a 1,000-euro loan in the house, your wife would take your eyes out. In Krusevec, we received a decision a year and a half ago, the government of France and the Government of the Republic of Serbia agreed to take credit for the expansion of the water factory in Majdevo. You look here, I don't know what the decision means, I had to take it all back, he says, a soft loan. What does it mean? Soft; soft when you take it, hard when you return. Is that it? Explain to me. It's probably your democratic name, soft credit. Here, that's your decision from Kruševac, down there is the Democratic Party of Serbia in power, so you should explain everything well. But you know what's controversial here in Krushevec? Kruševac has the best drinking water in Europe. They wanted to push us through this, but there was a Serbian Radical Party that wouldn't let them. Since we have people in the Serbian Radical Party, at the top of the Serbian Radical Party, so we all asked about this, and to tell you that the water factory in Krusevec, called "Majevo", is the water capacity of 650 liters per second, the pipeline capacity is 1,100 liters per second. According to the survey and analyses of the Jaroslav Černi Institute, this equipment can last the next 20 years. When the heat is the highest and the largest water consumption in Kruševec, Kruševac spent 380 liters per second. We've got 270 liters and we've got it today. We had reservations at the time when they were doing all our factories, and why don't they do our factories, it's Mr. Cvetkovic's fault, because he took part in the privatisation of Zupe. He had a famous sentence, he has all the famous sentences, in order to sell the Zupa factory as best as possible, must sell the first representative office in Belgrade, Ces Mekon, which he owns, and the Zupe representative has 16 garages, a hectare and a half, 1,300 square squares of business space and before all that was sold to Ces Mekon. And some woman, Olbin, I don't know what her name is, Zivana Olbina, doesn't matter, she bought along with Mr. Cvetkovic's son a representation of Zupa, and Zupa was sold to that famous Violeta Joseph. I also have a picture of the singer lying here in a coffee shop on the floor, and they covered her money and were looking forward to selling the Parish in Kruševec. As for the water pipeline in Krusevec, in the end, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group prevented this loan from taking away, because it's on the same condition, except that it's France, and over here it's Germany, the same conditions and grace period of two and a half years, and 2% interest, I'm not an economist, but I remembered, Mr. Minister, we know a lot better than you do, because we've been doing 30 years and we know some heating jobs, so I know what you're up to the citizens and what you're up to. In the end, we stopped it from being sold. This was all prepared to sell the water pipeline Kruševac, i.e. the water factory "Mayevo" to the French company Veolia Water Systems. The Democratic Party in Krusevec also voted for this initiative, and now it will vote counter. Look at what they're like. Srjan, you must now come out to the citizens of Krusheve to explain all this. These are exactly the same and exact conditions. We in the Serbian Radical Party, you know, Srdjana Milivojevic, that I'm not carrying out anything without documents, so I took care of it all, and here I corrected everything, and how a tax was written off in the Administration of Income from 2002 to 2005, your craft shop Hokus Pocus, for the production of fast food. That director, who was writing him a tax, was replaced, and this same Srdjan Milivojevic came in the evening, before I was supposed to publish at a press conference, in a cafe called Ring, to tell me that I'm not publishing it because it's very dangerous. After he told me so, I went to a press conference. After ten days, the director of the tax administration was replaced, it doesn't matter what his name is, in Kruševec, Ivan Spasov, you know because he wrote off your tax of 70,000 dinars, to you and your brother, I have here all those derivatives from the proceeds of your business tax write-off and what you did, Mr. Srdjana Milivojevic. In the end, Srdjan Milivojevic has one big problem, which he is in Krusevec, I must tell you, that they know citizens of all Serbia, during the bombing, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, everyone knows, and today when Dragan Todorovic came out and said he was tapped and all of us from the Serbian Radical Party, Srdjan Milivojevic was a spy all along during the bombing, he determined what would be bombed in Krusevec. He was that locator, as we called him. Srdjan Milivojevic, thanks to him, there was a rebellion of soldiers, we know what it was like. That's what Mr. General Delic knows best. And he knows Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic that he should have been arrested twice, that he was taken twice, once in the trunk of Mercedes towards Nis, and twice towards Belgrade. So much for you, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4627	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about ten days ago, I asked a parliamentary question concerning the protection of the environment and the threat of health of some 130,000 citizens of the Pancheva municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been given the answer to my question, which has been typed in small, thick letters on ten sides. This response, which I am not satisfied with, leads to the fact that the competent state authorities are not taking adequate and adequate measures to protect the environment in our city. The people of Panchevo municipality have been so threatened lately that the environment in which we live there is such that there are no mosquitoes anymore because they are all poisoned. Ladies and gentlemen, this response only results in a correspondence between the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the directors of Azotara, Petrochemy and the Refinery. Also, in response to the question, there is a finding that four criminal charges have been filed, but that two have also been filed against Dusan Pavlovic, the Belgrade director. That director doesn't live in Panchev, or his family, according to this as it comes from this answer. He lives in Belgrade. I ask the question: will the environment minister, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, take appropriate measures or not, or resign? The citizens of Panchevo municipality are no longer obliged to suffer and suffer and live in the middle which is now in the Panchevo municipality. What is characteristic, several mandates have been imposed, and fines. These fines are not adequate sanctions. They don't work for those who are responsible. Lately, I note that environmental protection in Panchev has deteriorated rapidly. I ask the question and ask the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that, through the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Supreme Court, carry out the necessary checks and to determine what is responsible for those responsible for the findings without having any consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I demand a full answer to see which organs were required to perform the procession and be responsible for the protection of the environment in Panchev. One more question, Mr. Vice President, let me ask and ask for an answer. A week ago, Minister Velimir Ilic hosted local television in Panchev and said the director of Belgrade's airport received a salary of 15,000 euros, that the director of flight at the same airport received a salary of 10,000 euros. Minister Ilic's findings and statements were as follows, asked by the leader: "Yes, it is true, and when we executed the comparison, the salary of the director of the Belgrade Airport was compared, it is greater than all the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia." According to my budget, it's a salary higher than the salary of 50 MPs. I ask the question and ask the answer, are these findings correct as Mr Velimir Ilic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4629	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The word comes from the apostle of Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again I have to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 101, which clearly states that MPs must not speak offensively to other MPs. I don't think there's any worse insult, and there's nothing less than what the MP said before the gentleman who spoke earlier, and I don't think it's absolutely an honor to anyone who uses such means. So if you don't have another argument, if you don't have a political concept, if you have no idea what you're fighting over, then what no one can do here -- is that it insults even the most cruel way of attacking the personality of the MPs. In addition, Article 103 states that the MP is obliged to speak on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4631	Once again, I ask the MPs to treat their fellow Members with respect in their discussions. Nikola Savic, followed by MP Zdravko Topalovic. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an agreement on the loan and financing between the KFV from Frankfurt to Main and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have carefully read this material that has been delivered by the congregation service and, believe me, it has taken me a long time to conclude that this KFV keybinding, i.e. it is really about the bank. Of course, I was greatly helped by my colleague, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, who is an expert in banking. At first sight, we have a routine agreement written by experts who understand these things, and this parliament is tasked only to confirm it. However, if you look a little deeper and get into the essence of these things, then you can see that it's not. It is especially evident that it is not so when at the end of this agreement it is seen that it was signed by Mr Mladjan Dinkic, and everything he has signed is certainly not clear. There's a percentage there, 100%. There's no hundred percent, but one percent, maybe up to 100 percent. So this agreement humiliates the government of the Republic of Serbia. It does not give any possibility for any correction, but simply this lender has prescribed and imposed such conditions, that whoever uses this loan has no right or any option whatsoever. So this is about local warming, and it's about phase three, but there's nothing to say about phase one or two. Looking at this material, I came across a little sentence saying something about phase one and phase two. It says that these two stages are actually a donation from the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. As Mr Tomislav Nikolic said, the two first stages served to get to this third stage, where we will enter unfavourable loans and where we will pay for these first two stages. What the first two stages were, I'll say on one case. I'm from the city of Nis. In the part of the city I live in a few years ago, topllification, or rehabilitation, was done, as it is said here, on a street. It was so done that it lasted maybe a whole year. Four or five times have been excavated, and even then the current mayor of Nis, who was from the Democratic Party, came to that street and publicly stated -- that this is an example of not working in one city. So this agreement, which is here today before us, should not be adopted because it is unfavourable for Serbia. There are other ways to get rid of these things. There's a National Investment Plan. Otherwise, the government should be thinking in the direction that its strategy, the state strategy in energy, binds to the world's largest energy force, and everyone knows it's Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4633	The word has a folk MP Zdravko Topalović, followed by MP Marko Milenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Topalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4634	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is known to be software against government borrowing and credit-taking, especially for projects that can be financed from the budget. Here, a colleague from the Democratic Party mentioned that it was best to speak with numbers. I agree, I'll get started. This way, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to meet the public and citizens of Serbia about the current state's responsibility. The state of public debt, according to information provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is considered accurate, on 31.05.2007, 9 billion 139 million 572 thousand 633 euros. Of which, the direct obligations of the Republic of Serbia amount to 8 billion 318 million 182 thousand 506 euros and indirect obligations, we will explain what indirect obligations are, so these are all those commitments that the state provides as a guarantee for the borrowing of its legal entities abroad or for local self-government, currently 821 million 390 000 127 euros. We know that one part of the debt, normally, is cared for by the National Bank of Serbia, and another, means, directly by the Government. The internal debt or liabilities to domestic lenders are 39.03 per cent, while the external debt is 60.97 per cent. Here, we'll just mention some obligations of the Republic of Serbia. I would refer to these very indirect obligations under which this loan belongs. We currently have here from loans, you see, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the 100m-euro Energy Sector Project for the Corridor 10 Rehabilitation Project, the Serbia Railways, 57m, as if through Serbia it were going to go through TŽV in six months, and then the road reconstruction project. I would refer to the second data, which is very interesting that the current debt to Germany's Bank for Reconstruction and Development is 96 million 129,000 187 euros. So that's the moment. Where are all these loans placed, and why was the state in charge of the German Bank for Reconstruction and Development? It's for REI Kolubara, for the Nikola Tesla Termo Power Plant, for Tamnava, it means everything in Serbia's energy system. This time I ask you, because you are asking us to support the country's further borrowing, I am openly asking if we will fall into debt crisis, and therefore also in debt slavery, knowing that all duties are going mainly towards, at least as far as domestic economy and domestic citizens are concerned, means natural persons, Austrian and German banks currently operating in Serbia's territory. You just heard from a colleague named Jorgenko Tabakovic. It means that Germany's Bank for Reconstruction and Development mostly implements its projects through banks of type - Microfinance Bank, Unicredit, Raiffeisen Bank. This debt of 9 billion and 200m euros was expressed in euros, although the debt was soon expressed in dollars, and because of the psychological fact, because in euros this amount would be much higher. Information on the debt of natural persons or citizens of Serbia has appeared in the media these days. According to some economists, the debt is almost at Serbia's external debt level. Now imagine what kind of situation this country can come into when the individuals are so in charge, when the entire economy, the rest of the part that works, under the mortgage of banks, are currently business banks of the type Rajfazen, Unicredit and others in Serbia's territory. Does this mean the total occupation of Germany, but in some other sense, and you know me very much scares the mention of Frankfurt's name in Maine, even though I know that city, for one simple reason there's a Bundesbank headquarters, and there's a financial stock exchange, and it's the headquarters of all of the world's banks in Europe, and, worst of all, it's good for Frankfurt to have information that represents the US Army's reception centre for Europe. Whether history will repeat itself and whether occupation will repeat itself, this time through much more powerful vision, not military, but economic and financial, because we will very quickly and can freely say come into a slave relationship than Germany. One more thing to say. I don't think 12m euros was the problem of funding from the budget. Mr. Minister himself here boasted about five billion-euro reserves. Especially in Serbia, the 44 billion dinar investment fund. Mr. Secretary, there's something I have to notice, I'm the only MP who hasn't received an answer to the question. In the last debate, when there was a debate on the Excise Law and Value Added Tax, I asked a concrete question, which I still did not get an answer through the material today. I asked you - how much is the external trade deficit for goods and specifically broad consumption compared to Croatia and Slovenia. Mr. Chairman, for you, we've received material on the final account for the 1006th year, but it's so small-boiled, and believe me, I have excellent vision, but I can't even read the balance sheet items with a bang. Please have an emergency professional service copy a new material so that we can prepare and finally discuss the 2006 final account.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4635	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4636	Mr. Chairman, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, it's a matter of agenda, so I'd like to bring Mr. Secretary this close to happening in Nis and possibly have him answer my question in due course. Mr. Minister, since this is phase three, I assume the first two have passed, do you know that KfW under suspicious circumstances has been lending loans to the Public Enterprise of Naisus in Nis. Three years ago, when local elections were held and we entered the Nish City Assembly, we were told that everything KfW gave would be donated. You tricked us. When Nisa's 2005 budget was adopted, the council realized it was actually a loan. When the 2007 budget was adopted, tens of millions of cities were unable to pay because they had no money. It has been said that the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed to do so. When Nis, the third-largest city in Serbia, has a budget of five billion dinars and is not in a position to pay these charges, how do you think the other municipalities in Serbia do so?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4637	The word is from MP Marko Milenkovic, followed by MP Radovan Milovankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law confirming a loan and financing agreement between KfW Frankfurt in Maine and the Republic of Serbia "The rehabilitation of the local heating system in Serbia -- phase 3" the government said, based on a protocol between the government of Germany and the government of the Republic of Serbia on financial co-operation. It is a wonderful financial co-operation, where our country is in debt with an additional 12m euros. I repeat, 12m euros, without a precise loan payment. And how much prosperity does the German government wish us have also proved the recent words of German Ambassador Cobel, who is working to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, both KfWs are so good that they will also finance expert services to rehabilitate local heating systems in Serbia. Imagine, expert services. Anyone who doesn't know anything, and they're from your ranks, you call them experts. You've all been experts since 2000, and look where you got us. Only the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, since the opening of its office in Belgrade in 2001, has granted loans of a billion euros to date. In 2001, you took 100m euros for the EPS, a year later 76m euros for road reconstruction, in 2005 72m euros for the Belgrade highway -- Novi Sad, 2006 60m euros for the Railways of Serbia, etc. - I only cited huge loans of over 60m euros! While the average Serbian citizen cannot imagine 100 euros in his pocket, you are leading Serbia and citizens into debt slavery from which we will find it difficult to get out. And your old-new government, people-recognizable as midnight, was further in debt from the European Investment Bank yesterday from a new 66m-euro loan to repair Belgrade's Gazela and local and regional roads and bridges, and another 25m euros from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At the same time, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic of the second bank's President, Zana Limera, "heroski" made 260m euros for four of the following projects. Well, it's a genius who made a loan from the bank that his people are going to be poor because he's not invested in production, and the bank is sure to make a profit! And already today, you are asking the MPs to confirm a new loan agreement at 12m euros, with the interest rate KfW will set two days before the date of payment of the corresponding portion of the loan! It is inconceivable what kind of agreement you have put on the agenda today: a loan without a certain interest, and yet to rehabilitate the local heating system in the third phase, and you did not report what was done in the first two stages. It's amazing and the SRS won't vote for further borrowing of their people and their country. And what about the National Investment Plan and what does it have to do with it? Physical persons - our citizens, come into credit with precise conditions when they sign, and then they are welcomed by many irregularities and injustices, so that they can hardly emerge and be forced to give up much. And you from the sky to the ribs, a loan agreement, in which the basic conditions of return are not defined, even though you have been pushing for transparency since 2000. Imagine a household where the owner of the household raises a loan without any interest in the terms of payment to arrange the heating in a residential facility. So you go to him and you say -- friend, every honor, you're a real host, your family -- in this case, the citizens of Serbia -- will be warmed up if they're cost-effective, even though some of them are naked, barefoot, hungry, without being able to school, find a job. And the host -- in this case you, the owners -- is pleased to sit for the next three or four years, not thinking about paying off the loan, until someone else, in this case, the SRS, takes care of the people and the state! Here is the essence of your story on the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KFW Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the average debt per capita of Serbia has increased by around 19% in the first five months of this year. According to the Secretary-General of the Association of Banks of Serbia, about 66% of the debt, or 466 billion dinars, belongs to companies, the debt of citizens is 32.6%, or 236 billion dinars, and entrepreneurs owe 2.6% and 18.9 billion dinars, respectively. All banks, lease companies, state funds, most insurance houses, Telekom Serbia, Telenor, Top-net and Diners Club have been joined in the Credit Bureau, so data are mostly comprehensive. Where are you taking this to Serbia, gentlemen? Do you mean the common people, the people who voted for you and the people who brought you to the ministerial chair, and now you forget them? In the election campaign, did you offer these same people new loans that you would owe them to, both them and their offspring? Serbia, citizens of Serbia, wake up, it's time for everyone to understand who's leading the country and where it's going. This loan agreement of yours is another proof that the midnight government must fall to the head of Serbia as soon as possible, the SRS, which will simultaneously repay your debts, root out crime and ensure that all citizens have a decent life, because the government is not in the interest of state officials and foreign states and banks, but for the sake of Serbia and all its inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4639	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Total remaining 12 minutes, then according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vlado Sekulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Tabakovic has already said that this is a loan that the Republic of Serbia is practically taken from the German state, because KFW is a state bank owned by 80% of the federal German government and 20% of the German provinces. Also important, and related to this bank, is that it, I quote, monitors German exporters by means of large financing of investment goods and around the world supports projects of German interest. That's very important for the story we have about the loan today. We have here a loan and financing agreement, with a total value of 12m euros, of which eightm euros is a donation or aid from the German government, and 12m is a loan that the state of Serbia will repay. It is also a project defined by this agreement, which is a project to rehabilitate the local heating system in Serbia, the third phase, and we have already heard that the first two stages have been realised as a donation from the German government, i.e. the German state. Now we've come to phase three that we're going to have to return, and we're going to return this loan at a very high price, which is a very expensive loan and loan. What is also important is that so far the three cities in Serbia have used these funds in the first two stages, which are Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, that these funds should now be used by Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, but according to former Finance Minister Dinkic, there remains room for three more cities. When the agreement was signed on 13 April 2006, Minister Dinkic called on local self-government to address the energy ministry and KFW Bank to compete for these funds. I am interested right here in whether the competition is realised, whether we know what three other cities in Serbia are going to use these funds, or whether it will be again on those party channels, interests, so those cities that are in power of those structures that belong to the government of the Republic of Serbia will get it. Mladjan Dinkic, the then finance minister, signed an agreement on the exchange of debt between Serbia and this German bank with the director of the German bank in Belgrade, Mrs Elka Kalstern, on 27 September 2006. The agreement envisions a 25m-euro debt, which Serbia has according to the German bank, to be written down, i.e. transforming into a 5.5m-euro investment that Serbia is supposed to invest in certain projects in Serbia. I am interested, since some obligations have been made under this agreement, whether they are realised. In fact, it was supposed to be immediately paid to the National Bank of Serbia that amount of 5.5m euros, and that within six months, this bank would write off this 25m debt and all the corresponding interest, so I'm interested in whether it was realised during this period, since it was a little more time, it was September 2006. Also, what I'm saying is that what we have here today, like this agreement, is nothing new. We've been looking at this for seven years, or to be more precise, since 2001, especially at a local level, we've had a bunch of these so-called. donation. You know what donations they are. They come from various agencies from the West, so they offer you aid of 10,000 euros, dollars, it doesn't matter, but on the condition that the local community invests another 20,000 on these 10,000 of them, so they're going to take out their various mediators, consultants, etc., to train us here and teach us, and that's what's left of our locals in well-known ways to pick themselves up. It's the same here now. In addition to these 12 million, the condition to obtain this loan is that another 12 million Republika Srpska concentrates on these projects. What else is important here? As far as the content of this agreement is concerned, I'm going to go in line and try to get this time that I have left, at least for those main points that may not be sufficiently potent, I'm going to take this out. Point 1.2 says - borrower, which is the Republic of Serbia, and end-users are local self-governments, or so on. agencies, as they cross them here, which will receive these projects until their realisation, will borrow, the Republic of Serbia will distribute funds to selected local heating companies in the Republic of Serbia, which will be the project's agencies. Now it's in the brackets that each of these agencies is called a project implementation agency. What is controversial here, the next sentence says that the borrower, the Republic of Serbia and the Bank of KFW, will decide on details of the project for each local self-government, including criteria for selecting these local self-government, supplying goods and services, and according to export contracts to be concluded for the project. I'm interested in what kind of export this is. Or this agreement was written by the German side, so this is exports to them. They've secured a good job here, because they're going to do a variety of devices, which are necessary for these projects to be realised, and that's how we're going to get this money back to Germany, and we're going to pay it all dearly as goods, and we're going to pay the loan we're taking. It's the essence of all this. So, they condition you, us, to get a set of credits and collect their expensive goods with a loan. It's what we keep quiet about. Furthermore, Article 2 speaks of a borrower's relationship, meaning the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. And now, the borrower, the Republic of Serbia, gives these funds as a loan to local self-government with a fixed interest of two percent a year. It's okay. Now I ask Mr. Vujadinovic, who spoke here earlier and said that the interest Serbia will pay on this loan will be below 2 per cent. Why are we now taking two percent of our local communities, if we're going to pay lower interest to Germany? So it's not true that it's going to be below 2 percent and we'll see it later in the other members how much it's worth. What's still standing here as a question, if we get 40% of our funding as aid, as a donation, whatever it is you want, why we're giving local self-governments interest money, why are we now New Sad or Nis, it doesn't matter, we don't give 40 percent of our funds as grants. This reminds me of that story, someone mentioned today -- oil for democracy, remember 2001. You get a donation, they get cities, or municipalities where Dossova was owned, and then you charge that fuel, or energy free, to the citizens through heating. Why don't we say now - 40 percent of these funds will be free, settled, and 60 percent we'll go through interest, with a commitment to return. Furthermore, what is also not logical here is not the normal degree of mixing this foreign factor, or the lender of Germany into some of our internal relations. You see, also in Article 2 says - KFW and the borrower will also agree on the form and content of special loan agreements with local self-government. Now KFW is also entering into these internal agreements and agreements with local self-government, leaving nothing to chance. So they want to regulate our relations, too, with the governments of the Republic of Serbia with the local self-government that are users of these funds. Next, as far as interest is concerned, we're all normal people here, would one of you sitting in an O.R. accept, or take credit in a bank, with a contract that doesn't cost interest. We here accept a loan agreement, and it's multimillion dollars, which doesn't cost the amount of interest we'll pay for these funds. I'm saying this isn't normal. This is where the other costs are known. There is a margin of 1.2 per cent per year on the funds, and it is also known to be a business fee of 0.5 per cent on total assets, all of which is fine, but the amount of interest is unknown and it is said to be known two days before the withdrawal of funds. Please, who's normal to accept it or who's normal to accept it? Furthermore, as time expires, just a few more things, a member of the 9th project, and says - the borrower will secure, so the state of Serbia will ensure that every agency and local company involved in the supply of heat to the extent involved in the project, by 31 December 2006, applies a consumer-based tariff system. Now I ask you, in those cities where this has already been realised and implemented, is it applied or not? What's more important to me, that's the next point, again, is the obligation to withdraw funds for use by such an agency, to provide evidence that it has introduced an adequate price-allocation system and that it has developed business plans that are applicable for a longer period, and that all of this is satisfactory for KFW. Look how far they go. They go as far as to determine our heating prices tomorrow in our municipalities and make these prices fit for them. We cannot edit and determine them ourselves, but we must consult this German bank or German government, however you will, how much heating prices will be in the state of Serbia in some future period. Excuse me, if I could have another minute, I'll be done. Let me ask, since here in the first article mentions these agencies that will implement and implement these projects, and then, in Article 9, the borrower's obligation states that he will make the most efforts to transfer ownership of these agencies from the borrower to the relevant municipalities as soon as possible. I ask if you are making any new local companies, i.e. the Republic, under the authority and owned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you will later have to transfer to local self-government. And finally, just to remind you that the act of signing this agreement on 13 April 2006, was attended by the German ambassador to the Republic of Serbia, Mr Andreas Cobel. Is there anything I should add? If for nothing else, then for this, the SRS will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4641	The word is from MP Vlado Sekulic, and after him, Minister Cvetkovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, it's about this topic that we're talking about, I've listened carefully to Mr. Vujadinovic, and also to Mrs. Nada Kolundji, she said that we talk better with arguments and figures, that we don't enter into anything personal. I'll tell you exactly a propo story that was elaborated and excellently presented by our distinguished colleague, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković, and Mr. Nikolic. What's said about Germany and Germany's economy and about KFW, it's true that this loan is extremely unfavourable. To tell you the truth, the Germans that they gave without interest this loan, they've already earned with us, because in the first and second stages, which was a free phase, they gave it as a pure donation, their resources, their technology, they exported it all to us. And now for all of these heat lines in Phase One and Phase Two, the Simmons are parts. We know it's a German firm and they've already gotten into it. This as a loan is extremely unfavourable when you add up all these numbers that colleagues have been saying, but I'm saying, Germany as Germany, so we don't have the delusion of whether the German will give us anything, he won't give us anything. For you to know, and Mr. Vujadinovic went out, but did not say this data: Germany earned 150 times more from exports in the past year than Serbia. To be exact, it is 893.6 billion euros, and has achieved a record surplus of 162 billion euros in Europe. So Germany is the strongest force, and what we say the EU is 50% Germany. And if she gave you something in return cheap, it's not safe, to be honest and to understand the point of this whole overindebted story, because this loan will still be on the burden of all Serbian citizens. Overindebtedness comes most from the private sector, but counterpart Arsic said nicely, eventually, the end consumers, people who want to get involved in the heat line and everything else, will have to be forced to come to our banks and to raise credit. When they raise their loans here, but our banks, our business banks, the private sector, he's making this over-indebted within him. Our business banks are constantly in debt abroad to come up with some favourable loans that will be issued to us, and that is reflected, let the minister come out and say whether it is true, it will reflect our overindebtedness. If we look at Serbia's external debt, in March it is 19.8 billion, which is 83.3% more than in 2000. This power, now you've mixed up a little bit, in fact it's all the same people, in 2000 it came and how you've come to the economy going only backwards, and Serbia's debt is moving more and more towards the 100 percent limit, how much it's going to increase, so let the citizens evaluate what you've done well and what you've used out of all the donations we've received, and in fact we've become an extremely debt-free country and we're just going to become, because I'm not sure we're going to pay back these funds, and we're going to pay for what we don't raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4643	The word has a Minister Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4644	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be relatively brief, since we'll have a later debate on the amendments, so we have time to talk more. Just to point out a few things that I think are important. A national MP asked if I was familiar, me or someone from the government, with the suspicious loans given by KFW. I mean, no, I'm not familiar with it, and I don't believe there's anyone in the government, but I encourage you, if you have information about it, because it's a German state, which is seriously looking at it, to come out with that data and go straight to the Germans. Secondly, as far as duty is concerned, we had one quite good exposure that pointed to this particular government debt that is about 9.2 billion euros somewhere and, of course, there is this other debt that is private. In view of the government debt alone, it should still be compared to a social product that amounted to or will amount to around 30 billion, so the debt is about 1/3 maybe 34%, which places us in the low-indebted countries when it comes to government debt. It is true, however, that there is a private responsibility, but here the state has no opportunity to influence, because it does not want to be an arbiter, to impose bans, but you as politicians, here I call you, because as finance minister, I would be overjoyed if the loan was reduced, and this withdrawal would allow practically less consumption, less consumption of better stability, and here I support you in this simple political work and explaining to people that you do not need to withdraw loans. The next question is who will use these funds and the relationship with KFW. I have to say I don't have an answer to these questions, but I'll try to get him by tomorrow, so I'll let you know when he does. This relationship with KFW is essentially about, it's about the Paris Club relationship, it's a little longer story, and I'll inform you about it. As far as interest is concerned, there is one point that it is incomprehensible to sign an interest agreement that is not known. I don't think you're right. Actually, it's about the next one. You basically have two options when it comes to loans. It's one thing to go on a fixed interest rate and then she's famous, and the other thing is to go on a variable, so on interest that depends on some market movements. If you enter this second model, then the contract defines a method or methodology, an algorithm for how the interest is calculated and its absolute amount is not entered, given that it is not known and that it will change. So that criticism can't be given to this contract. Just one more sentence, I can see it's already started to get nervous. Why not from the NIP? Of course, this does not represent some particularly large means, looking at the total volume of the budget, but it is simply not wise to pay 20 million when you can pay 12. So if we retreat to finance ourselves, it would cost us 20, and this cost us 12, and we get eight more free. We'll talk about the rest tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-07-17-0.u4645	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or someone who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does the Proposer’s representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the draft law. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail, and generality in the voting day. That's what we do today's work. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
