ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1170	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I received this proposal at some deaf hour of the night about the Ministry's Law, because one so Cossack, Hajduk, midnight, vampire government is being made, I believed that we could fix the text with amendments, or a bill on ministries. When I looked at it afterwards, I saw it wasn't worth it. It is all hollow as a sieve and it is not worth it, no repairs can be made to this ministry law, i.e. on tycoons, who rule Serbia, have their representatives, unfortunately, and in parliament, they will have them in the government, so I am withdrawing both this and all the other amendments I have submitted, with another comment. Every marriage when it's concluded, at least in the beginning, there's little love in that marriage. I don't know how to make a marriage where there's not a shred of love anywhere, just a mere interest. We witness such marriages, though, when a young girl marries someone old, rich, for interest. There's no love here, obviously there's only a mere interest. We also know who the groom is, the one who lives in the past, in history, in myth, we know who the bride is, and we know how it ends. You know, like at weddings, I'm talking to the young side -- it's going to be nice and idyllic for a while, but it remains that mark to marry an old man at the end of political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1171	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Please, let me remind you of the agreement of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups from May 13th, the debate will take exactly 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1172	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, please a few minutes of your attention. We are witnessing that several illogicalities have been identified in the submission of the proposal for a law on ministries, and many surfaces in the work of the government that this country and people are very expecting.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1173	I ask the MPs once again, do not make me apply any other measures of the Rules of Procedure that I have studied well the last day. Please be kind, the means of public information are here to listen in silence to all the amendment's proposings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1174	What I have submitted to the amendment concerns full transmutations and mergers in one ministry of operations contained in the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, transactions contained in the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. The area I immediately draw attention to, which the G17 plus tried to correct with its amendment, is that the competences related to tourism remained in the responsibility of both ministries. Although we will be witnessing the conflict over jurisdiction, this is still too much for the people and for us, that you, in principle of copying jurisdiction, leave it in both ministries. What none of my predecessors have noticed, and it is well and clearly stated, that, in addition to employment, what has been noticed by many, who have been excluded from the Ministry of Labour, and a very significant part of the competence of the Ministry of Science has been added to this ministry; not only one special organization called the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, but also one of the broader parts of the jurisdiction from that Ministry of Science. If the question of kidnapping is raised by whoever wants to represent the ministry for all the most important things in this country, I ask, if the coalition division belongs to the Ministry of Science, what is the motivation of this process? I will offer an explanation that all citizens will understand. Inter-party conflicts, internal conflicts over government formation and division of competences are based on one single thing called abuse of power through a commission system. The system of commission is legalized, my dear colleagues, in 2001 by adopting the law in the Federal Assembly, which was published in the "Official Journal of the SRJ" - international contracts, which was brought in September at an express session. It was printed and published only in October, and it was the only type of agreement and contract that imposed a vasal relationship, which was publicly published and that we could follow up on the adverse consequences. The order on this law was signed by Mr Vojislav Kostunica, Mr Micunovic led the assembly, as our professor, Dr Vojislav Seselj, called it - "the veteran of the opposition" then chaired, and many of you were sitting in the Federal Assembly. What I want to point out is that a six million dollar donation from the trust fund is prescribed that for all the million dollars that remain in the country for consulting and professional services you will leave to administrators, the World Bank, those who are called financial oligarchy, to decide which companies will privatise, under which conditions and for that we will pay them with money from our budget. They gave six million dollars in 2001, in 2003 they gave DOS authorities 4.5 million for these purposes, in 2005 they gave another six million dollars in a call. It is about a specific kind of corruption, where six million 4,730,000 were returned for consulting services. What's most important? Only what was here was a favor or a purchase of goods that could be paid up to $50,000 could have been obtained in the country and paid for by a domestic consultant. Everything outside of $50,000 was mandatory, and today it is, admit it to the citizens, as the ministry law is passed by order and in their interest, to approve you and to agree. I guess one day they'll come up with a list of these consultants, legal and financial advisers, under which you made a commitment to strictly dedicated spending, which is said Serbian about returning money to their homes, which you give them through consulting services. The question I am asking this amendment is this: if you have committed to them for six million dollars and introduced the practice of giving a report on the spending of money, whether Serbian citizens have the right to charge billions of euros in Serbia's budget, and that this law gives one man the right to decide on everything, and through privatisation, through bankruptcy, through the licensing of directors, through the selection of representatives in diplomatic and consular representations, and for standardisation, for licenses, for employment and for many things. I think this is the moment that the practice introduced to you by the World Bank, because they helped you to come to power, is very damaging to the Serbian people, and it cannot be called otherwise than the government, according to the ministry law, which will not be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1175	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1176	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I've come forward as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I have the right to report for every amendment. I know you'll get over it soon, Mr. Gristle, you're very talented. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by Jorgenka Tabakovic does not only have technical, but very deep political significance. In fact, during the previous period, we had all the time the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, but we never had a ministry this scattered, in line with the feudal needs of individual people in the future government of the Republic of Serbia. This is about Article 2(2) of Article 1 concerning Article 10. The proposal for a law on ministries, which clearly speaks about competences and competencies, is therefore about the prerogatives of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's authorities. Mladjan Dinkic, in agreement with Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, took on very broad intelligence, a very broad prerogative, which has nothing to do with the economy alone. That's why he had to extend it, so his MP Albianic applied for public ski resorts to be evicted from the department of commerce, so he could take cash from public ski resorts, as it now belongs to the economy and regional development ministry. Not to mention that the Directorate for Measures and Valuable Metals, but also everything that should be the most significant part of the ministry's competence and social policy, has become the responsibility of Mladjan Dinkic. Anything that happens in Serbia will be under the watchful eye of Mladjan Dinkic's "great brother". He will be his only controller and only one to control Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic in some way. We in Serbia today have a terrible problem, which parliament has a minimal ability to control, which is that this speaker exists exclusively as a talkative room, and there are no reactions from the competent state authorities, or anyone interested in what is really legal, what is really happening in Serbia and what really needs to change. I'll give you a few examples and a few things that I think are of great importance and are almost alarming. Has anyone in Serbia responded to the fact that "the Duke of Meridian Bank" Bozidar Djelic has 11m euros in one bank? In the course of tomorrow, or at the latest Thursday, I will apply to the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests to tell us whether Bozidar Djelic, as a national MP, reported all this and whether in the previous term, when he was in the state office, he reported his wealth or suddenly gained tens of millions of euros in one year. I'm interested in how it is possible, dear friends, respected citizens of Serbia, that we have anyone in power who is such a billionaire. Then it's quite clear that he's not being managed by anything, but only how he's going to fertilize those millions, because for a normal life, for himself, for his family, grandchildren, great-grandsons, it's normal for you to have, I don't know, I've never seen so much money that I can understand, but tens or hundreds of thousands of euros to be satisfied. No, he's a little $11 million. He'll move on. No one's worried. No one in the state of Serbia, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is concerned about what happened last night on that criminal and thieving TV B92. When I tell the thief, it's because, together with Mladjan Dinkic, they've damaged some newspapers, but I mean unsuccessfully, they've reduced the thief to 5.7 million, and in my account, the thief is about 10.5m euros... I brought this lease contract, and I'm ready to hand it over to each of the MPs, to copy it. With the signature of Mladjan Dinkic, governor, Sasa Mirkovic, director of B92, and stamp. We have the first annex, where the renter Radovan Jelasic is, and the tenant is Veran Matic, where you can see that the price of the most exclusive squares costs six euros instead of 20-25 euros. The contract was signed for 10 years. You can calculate for yourself, dear friends, how much the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or how much B92, in co-operation with Dinkic and Radovan Jelasic, damaged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how much direct money they took from their pockets. One of the scarier things happened. Last night, visiting one of Sonja Licht's shows, she said she saw what it looked like in Serbia. I was surprised, even the MPs from the authorities called to say they apologized for such behavior, some who had cheeks. She said, for those who didn't watch, I guess most of them didn't watch, I always have patience for NGOs, I follow their actions with special attention, thank God... I found that the lady at one point said that on the day that Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of the assembly she went to the doctor and that then a man appeared who, you imagine, was satisfied with the fact that Tomislav Nikolic was elected president of parliament. Then her friend told her, and then she saw what resistance it is to such an idea, so she shouldn't be able to take radicals for medical examination and treatment anymore. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must tell you that it was only Adolf Hitler who did it. I haven't heard anyone else do it anywhere; maybe at apartheid time someone did it, and no one ever did it again. I can see that there are such ideas in this country. I can see what you're up to. I see what RTS and B92 look like, which have national frequencies. I don't mind, I'm just warning you to keep an eye on me, because not only me, but none of these people in Serbia will let you not have a father or mother in Serbia, because we don't accept Serbia's occupation and because I love freedom and Serbia, unlike you. I'm warning this gang who thinks they can do whatever they want in Serbia, and I'm warning you, don't play with fire. Don't play, because we show you all the time how democratic we are. We even go out to meet you, because we know you'd go wild and bring lex specialis. We know you'd do anything. We agree to much, so that peace in Serbia and that people and citizens live peacefully. We're taking blows to our shoulders because we don't even have a chance to answer you, because it's better to crash on us than to fight on Serbian citizens. That sort of thing, ladies and gentlemen, don't do it, because it's gonna come back to you. The people are not at all happy about what you're doing. He's angry and angry. I know you see only your sympathies, but remember that 44% of Serbian citizens voted for the DSS, G17 and the Democratic Party. None more. That out of these 44% of Serbia's citizens, you take away the DSS immediately... Since I received my latest research last night, to cheer you up, the biggest decline in ratings is recorded by the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the small fall of the Democratic Party. I don't want to talk any further. It's not, at the very least, important, but the citizens of Serbia can know that. So today you wouldn't have all 35% of Serbian citizens who support you in this account. So, with the support of a third of Serbian citizens, don't be enraged by political opponents and don't think you can do what you want, don't resort to verbal or any other violence. We, neither the citizens of Serbia nor anyone else, will attack you, but I guarantee you only one thing. I guarantee you that we will defend ourselves and that we will defend whoever you attack every day without you knowing any more of what you attack him for, for there are few of you, villains, who sits in The Hague for five years. We will defend Vojislav Seselj and we will defend every citizen of Serbia whom you try to ban from going to a doctor's appointment or being served in a store, restaurant or anywhere else. Now I'm saying, let's see who does it. Let's see who does that. Let me see that Hitler's follower who's allowed to go so far. I don't know how that works. You, Mr. Aligrudic, have this experience with ears and hooligans, and I'm a little more serious and I don't do ears and hooligans. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Wolfie. Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. It is time for more serious people in Serbia to deal with the growing Nazis and ideas of apartheid, which have otherwise been heard in the last few days in statements of certain democratic, so-called democratic, etc. democratic representatives. I must tell you that all those who think it is possible to deal with a real, serious idea in this way and with people who are willing to fight for their idea, who will never give in and will never run away from them, who are not afraid of anything, must understand that such people and that such will, different and fairer, that Serbia who wants the truth, must win. That's why we're going to beat you even tonight when you choose your own government. You'll be looking forward to it. That part of Serbia that is against you and your government will rejoice over something else, which is because the dark is the densest before dawn and before dawn. Every day your government is given less of your rule and so much is coming to an end, so much is coming to freedom for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1177	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Wolfie has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to let you know, especially, Mr. Vice President: it seems that when I said one name that we lost a ton and a picture for unknown reasons, I would ask you not to do so. I guess some names when you mention them, they're about sacred cows, what can't happen, but it's not Mr. Albianic's name, he's certainly not a sacred cow. Don't worry, Mr. Albianic. So, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, we have submitted many amendments, counting that we can convince the representatives of the government. While Mr. Albianic submitted an amendment to which ski resorts would put Mr. Dinkic in his pocket, we were trying to fix this law. I'd like one of the proposing representatives to come out if he has these amendments ahead of him. Well, Mr. Aligrudic, it would be nice if you could tell us if you accept any amendments or not. It is a kind of practice and some kind of common rules that exist in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It would be good if you told us what you accepted, and what you didn't, if I didn't explain it, because I thought you'd come out immediately and accept the idea of Jorgenka Tabaković, because it was good and because by doing so you could put Dinkic in order, in respect of the law, and because you could tell the citizens of Serbia that he's not your dad, that you don't have to respect every single one of his whims, or even where he comes to ski resorts and taking money from the ski resort, because he's the president of the Ski Alliance. Now what? He also won the Tennis Federation, then the Ski Alliance, and you will share these other alliances. I once said, I don't know if you noticed, dear friends, while the Democratic Party said they were in opposition, look at that Olympic committee... I don't know at what point I really do, I like to watch sports and follow sports, but I never do those forums, and I don't want to be a part of it. There was a session, a special Olympic Committee, or something like that. I'm looking at it, but I don't know, like it was a session of Sicilian, Zemun, Vodovic, or I don't know which clan and all the naked members, whether it was from the Democratic Party or this or that, all the mobsters to the mobsters. What does these people have to do with sports? Never mind, there's that money. They're gonna get kidnapped. So here and here, a little ski alliance, a little tennis alliance, I'll have this alliance, and I'll have that one. Guys, you have no idea anymore, there are some that have never been to the stadium, and now they run club management. Why they run club managements - so they can put something in their own pockets. I spent half my life in the North Star and now I see some I've never seen. I have no idea who these people are. I see, the ones who've been rooting for Partizan all their life, the ones who've never seen the game, but they've watched other games. To repeat the key reason, they are much taller than we are. And sometimes Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, thanks to my height and width, can't see part of the hall. It was a remark... (President: I'm used to it. Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. It was a remark about what I'm not doing, and I should be doing it, but anyway, they're very serious people. They're all much taller than we are when they step on their wallet and steal everything from the citizens of Serbia. That's the problem, Mr. Aligrudic. I'd like you to come out and explain to us what ski resorts have to do with the Ministry of Economy. Come on, come on out and explain it to me. What difference does it make? I understand that there is privatisation and monetary policy, although monetary policy is run by the National Bank of Serbia as an independent and independent institution. What do ski resorts have to do with anything? What does employment have to do with this regional development? Isn't that about the Ministry of Labour? Is there anyone who can explain it, or will you tell us? Move the three of them and make a deal? The state can't function the way the three of them agreed, because the three of them didn't agree. They were just the technical part that ended up somewhere in the end, and before that it was all over with His Majesty Javier Solana and this great Olli Rehn. He is only great because he is very determined to take away Kosovo and Metohija from us. Seeing that he will come to you tomorrow, celebrate and say, the great thing for Serbia is that it has made such a government... This, I'm sorry, I'm speaking for the citizens of Serbia, I'll be done, Mr. Mrkonjic. Do you know what Ollie Rehn will deliver to us in seven days? Within seven days, Ollie Ren comes with a second message. He'll bring you some carrots. There'll be some vinegar on the carrot, but it's carrots. Then he brings not a stick, but a stick, a stick, a stick, in eight days. You know it's both carrot and donkey stick, not for people. Then they'll bring it, because they think of us all as donkeys, each of us, our entire people, they think of us as donkeys. They think the whole country's a donkey. Then he'll say -- now deliver Kosovo and Metohija to me, because you said you were for European integration. Now I ask you, Mr. Aligrudic – since I heard from Petrovic that he has no answer, I have asked him ten times, and ten more times, because he has no answer and he must not tell the citizens of Serbia – will you, after the most intense plot of Olli Rehn and Javier Solana (without swearing, insult, ugly words, the most beautiful question possible), after their clearest, most powerful advocate for the destruction of Serbia's territorial integrity, for the kidnapping of the works of our territory of Kosovo and Metohija, continue to speak - live Olli Rehn and Javier Solana and lived the European Union? That's my question for you. It's a question of all Serbian citizens. Because that hollow story, "we're for the European Union," so they can collect the cards, love everything young people love, cheer for the Red Star and Partizan, and I don't know what, and leave those empty stories to someone else. Answer the specific question – will you, as someone directly endangers our territorial integrity, continue to be for you or not? That's what the citizens of Serbia want to hear. Is it for you that Ollie Rehn is from Kosovo and Metohija or not, or are you going to assume that Kosovo and Metohija are going to assume Olivia Ren? I think that's the most important question. I expect an answer. But to be clear, it should be a very precise answer, and not as the politicians of the self-proclaimed democratic bloc, as we can see, sometimes with expressed Nazi ideas, are able to pronounce and do all that. To tell us clearly, because I will tell you our position: thank you all, we would love to cooperate with everyone in the world, but we can't cooperate and say that we love them most in the world and we can't do anything with those who want to take Gracanica and Prizren and Peć, and Kosovo Mitrovica, and Gjilan, and Vitina, and Priludje, Nometa, Babin Most and every other place. Well, we can't do that. If you can, go ahead and tell us. Because I don't understand what you're doing, if I'm wrong and if there's nothing to do and if you're going to respect the principles that every country has to respect. I don't know what you're going to talk about, then, except to hunt for Ratko Mladic's head and other Serbian heads, a kilo of Serbian meat to sell to The Hague tribunal. I think whatever you're doing, you won't succeed, because no puppet government has ever managed to win.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1179	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1180	Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on ministries is the graduate work of Balinovac. This law was designed to bridge the gap between DSS and DS in the last second and that bridge was built out of a wormhole building. But good luck to them, even though experience tells them that remorse came after every marriage in a hurry. This bill is also party and personal, which is his main drawback. He's not an expression of the state's needs, he's an expression of the need for a composition of what kind of authority. I don't dispute it as a necessity, but it's my duty to say it here. The SPS MPs submitted several amendments, based on decisions by expert councils in the SPS, which studied each of these areas covered by the members of the law here. You have received an amendment with an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law on ministries. In Article 2(2), point 12 is amended and reads: Ministry of Tourism. The Socialist Party of Serbia advocates that the tourism ministry be separated from other resors. Such a ministry existed at a time when the Socialist Party of Serbia exercised power. There are several reasons for that. I would like to say that at this point investment capacity in the tourism area in Serbia is about 17 billion euros, not to list the destinations: the Old Mountain, Golia and others. I also think it is not normal, if the Ministry of Tourism is already singled out from the existing Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, to join another ministry that has nothing to do with this, except the mere party and personal needs of a party leader. We recognize that, and we will follow this with special attention, if this bill passes in the proposed text, of course, and criticise it in every possible way, whenever opportunity and need arises. I would also like to say that, in point 13 of the amendment, we are also changing the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Policy, and the questions of veterans, which will be discussed more by our distinguished colleague Zeljko Vasiljevic. I want to say that there is a particular need for this ministry, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to be singled out as special because of a large number of people who need to exercise rights based on their participation in various units during different wars in different times. It is perfectly normal and logical and I believe that 126 votes will be held in this House to accept such a solution. I'm not gonna answer next time, so I just want to say to this occasion that I've also submitted to Article 4 an amendment to add "civil protection" to the defence-defined business. I think that's very important. Several elements of civil protection have been defined, such as reporting centres, such as information and crypto protection, but I believe it is necessary for this to be resolved at the state level, and that local self-government is merely a service in the doing of this important job relating to the elimination of the consequences of the elemental disasters and any other possible problems that arise in this area. On this amendment, I insist, a team before it is true that Mr. Sutanovac will be the defence minister; then that means precisely for us from the SPS that we will leave "a goat to guard the cabbage". We don't trust the way these jobs are going to be done, Mr. Sutanovac. We don't think it's a good choice, but it's your choice, and of course you'll have some problems with it. It is our job to keep an eye on what is happening in this area, because I believe that all citizens of Serbia are interested in this. Also, I am taking the opportunity to say that today, at 13 o'clock, a session of the Serbian Radio-Television Programme Board was held. I am a member, with five other MPs, and I left the session because the public service boycotts the work of its own programming committee, does not allow public opinion of members of the board on the work of a public service. If this practice does not change in the work of the Serbian Radio-Television Programme Board, I will organise a press conference after each session of the programme board to inform Serbian citizens, since I cannot do so through public service, which was actually discussed there. Also, I would like to say that if this practice continues, the SPS parliamentary group will submit a proposal to amend and supplement the law governing the payment of TV subscription from Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens have the right to know that 5,400,000 euros are spent each month picking up from a TV subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1181	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. Does anyone want a word? Zeljko, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will tell you about the amendment submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia, with co-operation with the Veterans of Serbia movement, to Article 2. Proposal for a law on ministries. We've had two proposals and we think that both of them are completely solving the state administration in the area of martial law protection. I'm just going to say that we've submitted two amendments, so two variants of the same thing. First, we suggested adding point 14 and forming a Ministry of Veterans Affairs. At this point, given the way the government is formed, at which speed and, as someone here said, at a deaf time of night, I don't think it's realistic to expect government support for this amendment. I really don't know how to find a man who would be at the head of this ministry, given that since 2000, no government that's been formed has had the courage to add to the name of veterans, but has always pushed us into the social community, where war veterans, and especially wartime wartime peoples and families of fallen fighters, certainly not the place, based on the sacrifice they've given, based on the moral merits they have for what they've done and what the state has asked them to respond to and fulfil their obligation. I must tell you that war veterans, wartime military disableds and families of fallen fighters are not at all interested in the political character of the war, who started the war and what was going on. We're only interested in the state taking care of those people who didn't run away and weren't hiding when the state asked them to. I would like, above all, to remind the people of the Democratic Party that we held a series of talks last year, especially after two protests we had in March and May last year, to help us solve our problems. I mentioned yesterday that Mr. Dule Petrovic, Milan Markovic, Mr. Ristic and Mr. Zoran Alimpic then promised full support for this. My people, I wonder if you have one thing in mind when you're in opposition and then you promise everything, and you promise another when you come to power and you give nothing. Secondly, I want to explain to you how illogical it is for this area to be within the framework of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The method of synchronising and the character of receiving wartime military disableds and families of fallen fighters is primarily compensation for damage and national recognition. It's not social giving. Only by that nature can we not be in that ministry. That's one thing. The second thing, for state social contributions, determines the budget base that is increasing in relation to inflation in that famous Swiss model where personal income is not taken, is that only receiving military invalids are in line with the increase in personal incomes for the previous month. So we have the ministry allowing the social budget to increase by 7-8%, and the growth in receiving military people is 22% a year. So there's no reason for us to be in this ministry. Given what I said, that we are sure that there is no way that the government will agree to this, we have offered an alternative solution, which is that in the frameworks of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the name – and questions of veterans are added. That way, the state would at least sort of repay these people and separate them from the social order, because they don't deserve anything. I think that would be the first step, i.e. the first sign that this government will take special care of these people, because it also has a constitutional obligation under Article 69. The Constitution. There's one more thing I'd like to mention, how this law is prescribed. In the Constitution, the term "warrant protection" was "veteran", probably based on positive experiences from the west, because there is the term "veteran". But in no other act, no other part of this law has used the term'veteran', but only 'fighter-involvement protection'. I'm afraid a lot of people will find that misunderstanding and they won't understand what it's all about. Gentlemen, we can't expect anyone from the promoter to tell us that he accepts this amendment, because unfortunately, there is no one here, but I hope this government will have an understanding of our fully justified demands and will agree to change the name of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1183	Thank you, Vasilevich. Mr. Wolfie called for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's interesting that there are no more representatives. It's interesting that Mr. Aligrudić didn't answer anything I asked him. I see everyone's gone to get ready, I guess, for this solemn session, or I don't know what it is. They're not interested in the laws they'd have to follow, they're only interested in prey. One night they will rejoice, they will not rejoice over honor, glory, cheeks, but rejoice over prey, for what remains to them to take, rob, take, and for nothing else. This is one of the key political issues that we are currently talking about. Namely, the attitude towards people who are participants in the Liberation Wars, as Serbia did not wage conquerive wars. This is an important country of Serbia towards soldiers of the Yugoslav People's Army, the Yugoslav Army, according to a number of volunteers who, within the framework of JNA, I and territorial defences, defended our country, whether it was defended in Knin, Glina, Vukovar, Trebinj, Sarajevo, Belgrade, either as General Delic did in Kosovo and Metohija. So this is a matter of respect for those people who gave everything for the country. This is a matter of relations not only with the fighting-involved protection, this is a matter of relations and monuments, and of what no one in our country... I don't know if all MPs know it, I don't know if you know the fact that the bust of Milice Rakic was removed from the Tasmajdan Park. The murdered child bothered the criminals of the Dossian authorities who welcomed Javier Solan, who killed that child and did not have to and could not see the picture, or bust of a little girl from Batajnica, who was killed by his missile. That's why the literally criminals put that monument away, and that's what this is all about. This is where we talk about our people defending their hearths, who today you're trying to accuse and condemn for genocide, for the most serious crimes possible, and for the general, and to try to say that Serbs are the greatest culprits for what happened to them. Unfortunately for us, Serbs are the biggest victims of the conflict in the area of the former Yugoslavia, victims and US-Western aggression, and of course those they helped, from Albanian terrorists to contemporary Slovenian secessionists. So today we have to show our will and desire, among other things, but I don't know how they'll show their will and desire when they don't listen, when they're not in the O.R., when they're not interested. I guess they got out of the O.R., like they did to get Mr. Spectre out of here, so I can't show the nation any more. At the same time, they retreated so that they would not have to answer any of the only questions asked. But, not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the MPs to treat our fighters, to the best and bravest part of our people, at least the way they are, unfortunately, treated in our environment by our own who have been sneering at Serbian hearths, Serbian houses, which are always respected, which are almost their saints. Let someone in Zagreb today touch one of the Croatian soldiers who went to occupy the Republika Srpska Krajina. No, it's the gods in Zagreb today. That's why only Serbians, not so armed, and of course ten times less dressed, ten times poorer, brave Serb soldiers are left for mercy and mercy, because no one is taking care of them today, or even in that sense of elementary respect or media respect. There's not a word about it in our media as if no one's ever laid their lives on the altar of the country. In our country, it happens that a man, Hungarian by nationality, who shot down that evil plane that bombed Serbia, who killed Serbian children, that this man was fired from the army, that everyone who fought for freedom of Serbia was fired from the army, everyone who was capable. Here's an example of General Delic, one of the youngest and most capable generals in the Serbian army. You know why it's not active in the Serbian army today? Well, because he defended Serbia, because he did not serve Americans and everyone else as help, because he was protecting Kosovo and Metohija. That's why today... I'll tell you something interesting, I'm guessing you haven't heard. Mr. Krasic, Jerkovic, Miss Ragush and I went to The Hague to visit Vojislav Seselj; we enter the plane, the regular JAT line, I see, some of us are ghastly looking at us, welcome us the people, and let the two of us stare at something that has hidden between them. What's this, who's this, when you believe it or not? And these, for God's sake, with guns on the plane, they're coming in. They don't defend the country, they never defend the country, like the Pride didn't defend. He didn't want to defend his own Knin, he wanted to defend his native Garmispartikirhen, his mother gave birth to him in Garmispartikirchen, at the Marshall Center of Shulet. How much of that crowd was there and who was going from the DSS; how many lights there are in this Garmispartnerkirchen, so that ours don't get lost by traffic lights, when they go to that Marshall Center. Is there anyone that has finished a Serbian school, is there anyone that is a Serb officer, on Serbian tradition raised, someone who will protect Serbia, not to protect Garmispartnerkirchen, or do I not know which country? Of course, I'm saying this metaphorically. But because the most capable and the best are not needed by Serbia, the worst are needed by Serbia, the worst are needed by Serbia, and the worst will make them the worst. Now, that's what's happening in Serbia today, and that's what we have to fight. So I am grateful not only to my colleagues and friends from the Serbian Radical Party, but to all citizens who every day are increasingly clear, in every place, to show their great desire for freedom, to free both the occupiers and his servants, to free those who destroy the country in the worst possible way and who, after all, after all, will also take the soul of the Serbian people. We won't deal with it, and the spirit is the one who always wins. When someone does not rest, he will eventually return everything that is his, and eventually he will be able to say that he opposed those who served the occupier, who were very dangerous, very strong, lots of money, prevented those who fought for freedom from going to the doctor, did everything they could against them, but never beat them. It's a historical lesson you'll learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1185	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Canak, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that lies before us is extremely important and I think it is extremely important that it be adopted. The issue of veteran wars in which Serbia participated was a politic issue that covered up the character of the former regime and its policy. That is why people who, for example, participated in the war with Croatia in 1991, 1992 (I apologize, in the war against Croatia), those who were mobilized and taken to the front... This was until 1 March 1992, 106,824 people from Vojvodina; unfortunately, we have no data for the rest of Serbia, but I'm sure there will be people who have it here. These are people who are precisely because of the claims made by Slobodan Milosevic's regime that Serbia is not in the war, that it has not participated in the war, left without the elementary rights that every veteran in every country must enjoy. There's a lot of people sitting in this room wearing a uniform and a gun, which I belong to, and that's why they have to cover up part of their biography. That's completely insane. To identify veterans and those who have committed war crimes is totally unacceptable. The attitude towards the veterans of the wars in which Serbia took part – and that is another thing that this amendment, if adopted, will show – is Serbia's attitude towards itself. Because if the state won't respect those who answer her call, if they won't respect those who wear her uniform and are also part of her executive authority, then she doesn't respect herself. The regime that put itself in a position to conceal, to be ashamed of his participation in the war... Look, I'm not talking about the reasons for that war, because, as you know, I was against that war, I've been trying all the time to stop this war, I've been against the reason and everything, but I've never been in my life and I can't be against this country. I don't have another country, and being in favour of a different state, it's a matter of my political beliefs. And because of political beliefs, because I advocate that people be equal, regardless of national, religious, political or traditional membership, in this country, I cannot agree that anyone on any basis be denied for health care, for education or for that matter, these are things that are absolutely inadmissible. If we want to live in a country where children will be freed from fear of the future, and people free from fear of age, if we want it to be a country whose orders are (and the state is ordered, do not forget) then that state must have a clear attitude towards those who have obeyed those orders. So I say, on behalf of hundreds of thousands of those who participated in wars, which none of us wanted, which many of us fought against, but unfortunately we participated in, those who left their health, their youth on the fronts, they deserve to be defined as at least part of one ministry as a veterans' ministry. And the criminals? Whether they were in this uniform or that uniform, they're all the same for me, and they have to be on the same criteria in front of the court and answer, so they don't embarrass hundreds of thousands of those who did their duty to their country and they don't deserve to be marginalized because of the handful of those who abused the uniform they wore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1187	Thank you, Mr. Canak. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is obvious that Mr. Canak completely misread Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic's initiative, because this is not about 1990, but also about World War II fighters and 1990-1999 fighters. If Mr. Canak hadn't misread it, then all that he's said so far could refer to him, those qualifications about people, wars, delusions, mobilization and so forth. It seems to me that he said the other day from this pay phone - in 1999, when the aggression occurred, that he left and signed up. Mr. Canak, you completely missed the topic, because there were other people who acted like you in 1990 and 1999, and this problem is much wider, it's also about those people who were part of the JNA, while that army existed. So, leave out of this story about the regime, about the character of the regime, about Slobodan Milosevic, you completely missed the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1189	Thank you, Mr. Beard. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you'll have to do something about it, Mr. Gristle. Namely, the draft law has brutally violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 147, where it is said – the legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings the amendments submitted on the draft of the law and to inform the Assembly of which amendments they propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. We have received one notification, he must plead on all amendments, and we have received only two amendments, where it is obvious that he accepts the amendment of genius Albianic to Dinkic's racketeering and ski resorts. I don't mind, it's important that we know that the racquetarian government, nothing else, is important that the citizens of Serbia know. Apart from what I expected Aligrudic to have done; apparently he is very powerful this Dinkic, I don't know what he's doing to them, whether he's using Sutanovec's methods with Aligrudic and those of the DSS, but that's your thing. It is unserious for the citizens of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. I would ask you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to make a request to the legislator, Mr. Aligrudić, to plead on every amendment, because it is his sublegal obligation and he cannot break that obligation. I would ask him to behave in accordance with the legal norms, as well as everyone else in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must note, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, that at present there is not a total of 40 in this House of Representatives, at a free estimate; I have exaggerated, says Mr Krasic, and I think he is right. This, respected citizens of Serbia, speaks enough about how much they respect not only us, their opposition, but how much they respect all of you, how much they respect the state of Serbia and how much they care about anything in life but their chairs. Apparently, their chairs are the most important, and it's obvious that prey is particularly important, and I would only point to two key reasons, until I run out of time, which is why they agreed on it. The first reason is that Vojislav Kostunica, Kosovo and Metohija themselves are preparing something concerning Kosovo and Metohija, contrary to the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens, because they would never enter the coalition, I quote Mr Aligrudic, with traitors and spies from the Democratic Party. He was a very precise and transparent man when he spoke of his political comrades and coalition partners. The second reason is that they were afraid of choice and people's will. The third reason absolutely does not exist. It would be good if there was anything on the agenda that one of the proposing representatives... If they give us this act, Mr. Mrkonjic, they humiliate every citizen of Serbia who sees that they are not interested. They wrote something, gave it to the assembly, subsequently accepted Dinkic's blackmail that he could steal money from the ski resort. Albianic was a father, I exaggerated, he was signed. They signed Albianic to accept that ski resort money goes to Dinkic's pocket, and they can't go to the trade minister. I ask you, what kind of relationship is with people in Serbia when you say – we don't care about the laws we have proposed, we don't care about, dear citizens of Serbia, for you, we don't care about anything, it's just important that we get together tonight and wait tomorrow for Ollie Ren who we're going to tell – welcome, thank you very much for coming, when you're going to cut us out of Kosovo and Metohija and when you're going to rob us of state-law sovereignty. There's a people's proverb, and I'm going to end it with her: every one is born to die once and for all, and honor and shame live forever. This should be taken into account by Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, I will not speak of this third one; I fear they have forgotten the honour and that the shame will last forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1191	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report that, as vice-president of the Serbian Radical Party, I express the strongest protest over this scandal that Mr. Aligrudic staged today. Namely, by Article 139. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, paragraph 5, if the committees responsible, within the time limit provided for by the Rules of Procedure, do not consider amendments submitted by Members of Parliament and not deliver reports, or the Government does not give an opinion on the amendment proposal, the law will also be considered without these reports, or opinions. This has been the highlight of impudence and indignity since I've been sitting in the MP's bench of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it's been a long time. I must warn you that this is done by a man who is the legislator of the law and who, in the last meeting, was president of the Legislative Committee, whose obligation is before any amendment and legislation is to consider the draft law in particular. This paper that he delivered to us for the table of the presidency, it is a humiliation both for me and for Mr. Mrkonjic, who is obviously left to, on the basis of the suggestion of the secretary, who, also as a lawyer and as a secretary, has no right to suggest that he should be called on Article 139 of Article 5, because, as Mr. Vukic said in general, no amendment has, nor has the law entered into the consideration of any committee. Mr. Aligrudić – and to you, Mr. Albianic, since he was obviously lurking with you, with colleague Varga and others – this can only take home and hang somewhere, on the fridge magnet, and look at what's called a notification. This cannot be found at all, as lawyers would say, in the legal traffic of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What he signed for us is a dead letter on paper. He is not at all authorized to give us an opinion on whether he wants something or not. What he agreed with you, Mr. Albian, did you go to lunch, for coffee, or did you walk around in Prince Michael's, it's not the subject of debate here at all. Only in case he is the chairman of the Legislative Committee or if he appeared as an authorised representative of the Proposer on one of the committees that are considering this issue, could we accept something like this. You know, officers in the office have to do things and bang the press on things and paper, unfortunately, they have to suffer things, but this isn't worth anything, nor do I, as someone who's at the chair table, nor can Mr. Mrkonjic accept this. This way, since there is no Mr Aligrudić, we inform him that this is absolutely unacceptable and that this has no foothold in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1193	Thank you, Natasha. Mr. Canak, replica, and Mr. Bajatovic, discussion of the same amendment. Here you go, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1194	Thank you. I'd just like to explain myself to the SPS gentleman. The situation is next. I didn't interfere with the mind that all wars were. I would draw your attention, when it comes to World War II, onward, the war that began in 1991, and then the war in Kosovo, and everything that was happening, were people who found themselves reluctantly and should not because people were reluctant to challenge their rights as veterans. There are people who volunteered, and they must not particularly challenge the rights they have. There are a number of people who have sinned against the rules and laws of war, and in particular they must not be allowed to be punished for the crimes they have committed. I speak in principle, I don't speak at all... I'm not even talking about Serbia. I'll remind you, Obilić's medal for courage is after World War II, and won in World War I, treated as an order in the same level as the Order of a People's Hero. We must be aware that before us, people who have proved themselves heroic in their wars and we have no right to, because very often in our country itself are changing, we deny the rights arising from their loyalty to the state and to our people. That's why it was my intervention, this amendment will clearly open a series of things that we need to open up to once and for all to put them away and leave history of whether Serbia was at war, what that war was; so let people deal with it afterwards, and veterans live among us, and we have no right to deny them the right to share them in these or those or other artificial divisions. I would like to point out once again that the issue of accepting this amendment, regardless of the political membership of the amendment's proposings and no matter what, is an important thing for the country in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1195	Thank you, Mr. Canak. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, and let Mr. Bajatovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1196	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wish we had any way out of this situation. Unfortunately, at this point, the National Assembly is in an impossible position. The deal is that about 16 hours after the amendment debate is over, which we won't be able to reach, we won't get one tenth of the amendments to cross, and I expect, after Mr Aligrudic has returned, to come out and plead on all the amendments and to make it clear to us. I suppose he had some important state affairs and obligations, so he left the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Hall, but we should have got that right away, I mean his opinion, not only what was the agreed variant and the agreed economy of Mladjan Dinkic with Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic. As was the agreed economy, and I would like to point out, between the representatives of a minority group and the government in Serbia not to accept the SRS amendment, which is being introduced by the ministry of human and minority rights, but to accept one of their amendments that will regulate the position of national councils of national minorities in a different way. Your stores are almighty and you can do anything, but you must respect the Rules of Procedure and you must respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would also pray for the answer: when Mr Olli Rehn told us that we must act constructively as regards Kosovo and Metohija, when he announces that the EU's request to be a member of the EU, that Kosovo also be an independent state, will we continue to speak - live in Olli Rehn and live in European integration? In the end, by welcoming some kind of consent of those who went out for this pay phone, I have to point to one illogicality, and it's very important for the topic we're talking about. In fact, in our country every day, there is talk of Serbian criminals. The Serbs of the criminals may have been 50, 100, 200 or 300, no more, it's less than one spill, no doubt, and we talk about them every day. The heroes, the brave men, those who defended the land, are not spoken of. Now I'm going to set an example to see why such amendments to power are unacceptable. Mr. Bozidar Delic has the Order of Courage. The brigade he commanded was decorated by the Order of the People's Hero, and since they were decorated by the Order of the People's Hero, that brigade was abolished, that's the 549th brigade. The Order of the National Hero was awarded the 125th Brigade, and the "democratic power" abolished the 125th brigade; the 63rd parachute was decorated by the Order of the People's Hero, and the "democratic authorities" abolished the brigade. Any brigade that has shown itself anywhere with the heroism and defence of Serbia and Serbia, you have abolished. You abolished everything Serbia meant, everything that was worth it in Serbia. Just your public enterprises from which you rob money don't end at all, watch as long as it lasts. One more thing, when we talk about respect, I remind you that you are the genius government, the genius government that arrested John Djoga, the man who was repeatedly decorated, including the Order of the Karadjordje star, the highest distinctions of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia. You held the man in custody, although 70 or 100 per cent of the disabled, until the deadline for holding him in custody did not expire, because he or someone else once took a plate of cabbage to Serbian General Mladic. You are a disgrace to Serbia, and Serbia's shame cannot spoil this country's cheek for long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1197	The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1198	Dear MPs, the Honorable chairman, also reported to the Rules of Procedure, but I have no objection that representatives of the Serbian Radical Party have the advantage, because Mr. Vukic is doing great. I must say, although some of my colleagues have suggested to me -- don't do it now, it's embarrassing enough, but it turns out that this government that should be elected today will simply be derailed by the good will of the opposition MPs, because they haven't left us enough time to discuss everything that we should discuss in the formation of a new government; we will allow them to finish this job tonight by 24 hours, at least it seems to me that we are so good to them, although they are not good to Serbia or to the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, it's been de-controssed with influence and will, I don't know if it's good or bad, some international officials, some of whom are also called Javier Solana, called "the trigger," and things like that, as the people remember them. I would really ask, I don't know if this is meant by the Rules of Procedure, that those who make up the majority, or that they should do the majority tonight to elect this government, come to these benches, to suffer us, as we have suffered them for the last three and a half months or four months and all their irresponsibility, and at least be so polite that this good will of opposition or future opposition in this Parliament is respected in an extremely collegiate and human way. Maybe they don't like us, maybe they don't like our arguments, but it's so fair at this point on their part. Maybe they won't really like what we're saying. Mr. Canak, if you had spoken in your first address as you said in your second address; that in your first address, instead of talking about some kind of daily political regimes, which you of course did not like, you said, as in the second, of people affected by the wars, which certainly did not produce either the Serbian people or the Serbian leadership, or at least until the end did not, you would not have the need for Mr. Zarko Obradovic to report. Yes, in our society there are many categories of people at risk, displaced, internally displaced, expelled, all others, ultimately with veterans whose rights are and how threatened. Let's split up, then, some of your political friends from Europe and the world, and these are unfortunately official European historians, they write, and this can be found in books today, as the result of what the First World War, which is the most rewarded of the Czech Republic and Serbia. Perhaps this is the reason or justification that today, when genocide is said, some of our domestic politicians do not want to remember that Serbs in World War I lost one third of the active male population, almost 40% of the total population. They do not want to say that we have lost 700 thousand Serbs only in Jasenovac, or others close to them, and they do not want to say that 250,000 people from Krajina have been displaced, 250 thousand people from Kosovo. It's true, Mr. Canak, every crime is a crime. Every crime needs to be punished, just let's see how these crimes are determined and whether or not these crimes are attributed to someone for political will. Of course, in the old custom, we are mostly not on the agenda here, but we are talking on the agenda, but now I would like to return to the importance of this amendment, which was spoken of by the esteemed President of the Veterans' Movement of Serbia, Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic. Not only are veterans a constitutional category, but they are endangered, both those who have an order and who do not have an order must have the help of this state. If Mr. Nenad Canak can talk about it, the unaccepted volunteer; they probably had a reason why they didn't accept his good will to be in units... Most people who responded to calls to regular units of the Yugoslav People's Army responded by invitation. I want to say, after this pay phone, let this power be DOS, prodos, democratic, if she invites me to wear a uniform, I'll put it on. It doesn't matter what authority is, it's a duty to the people, it's a duty to the state. That's one thing. Another thing, Mr Vasiljevic, I'm surprised you didn't say that, in the past session, the Socialist Party of Serbia helped the veterans' association. How? First, at the time of the adoption of the Law on Combat-Invalid Protection, you know this well, Mr Vasiljevic, the government wanted to pass a law in which it was abolished, it seems to me, three billion and four hundred million dollars (so I speak extremely practically) for the disability protection of those same veterans. The Socialist Party of Serbia intervened by saying it would deny support for the minority government of Vojislav Kostunica if so. The law has been withdrawn. After that, the government passed a regulation that also wanted to deny the rights of veterans; it also intervened with the SPS parliamentary group, and the regulation was withdrawn, so that the government could continue to rule uninterrupted. It may have been the price of the SPS, as well as the adoption of the Pension Insurance Act, as far as 60 percent of how much pensioners can at least reduce pensions compared to average earnings, but we helped something. Therefore, I call upon all, and those who still have time as authorized promoters to, with this good will that they express behind this pay phone, which they express through the amendments made in the Constitution, that indeed this constitutional category of veterans, so I will call it, form the draft law on ministries, and that we really help these people. Not to single them out in a very radical way from other social categories, but to tell them, thank you people, you responded to the state's call, you deserve to be properly and treated in a good way. Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1199	Thank you, Mr. Bayatovic. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1200	I'd like to say that Alexander Vukitch was absolutely right. So I remained in debt to information that wasn't clearly given this way enough, as it is in this paper that was divided. It is said here that the promoter accepts the amendment to Article 8, with a correction, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Laslo Varga, Andrea Galgo-Ferrenci and Balint Pastor and the amendment to Article 14, which was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. Indeed, for the other amendments, we must plead before voting on them and during the debate on details. On behalf of the promoter, I must say that the other amendments have not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1201	I thank Mr. Aligrudic. The word is Mr. Nenad Canak, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1202	Thank you. I wouldn't answer if I was wasting my time, but I have to replicate Mr. Bajatovic. First of all, when it was a matter of 1991 whether to go to war or not, whether to respond to the JNA or not, my political position was, as well as my like-minded, not to go to this war for the simple reason that we didn't see what we needed to defend in Vukovar. It was the attitude of direct opposition to the state because of political convictions and we were all prepared, as we were prepared and afterwards, to answer for our political beliefs, by being arrested and imprisoned, as there have been cases, for desertion. It's a political stance. I didn't say it was someone's responsibility. It was a political position for which we were prepared to bear responsibility and to bear responsibility. However, I will remind you of something else, when bombs fall on my city, on my country, then there is no room for such things anymore, because one thing is when it happens somewhere outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the other is when it happens on Serbia's territory, or, for example, in the New Sad. When the first bomb went down in Novi Sad, I answered, as did all the men of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, to volunteer to defend our cities, Vojvodina and Serbia. There's no talking here. But I only said all this for one thing. Mr. Radoslav Stojanovic, a man who was our representative before the International Court of Justice, when Serbia was not convicted of genocide, stressed in his statement that the biggest contribution to the verdict was the fact that people were massively resisting mobilization in 1991 and that it was those deserters from 1991 that saved Serbia from charges of genocide. The political relationship at one point is one thing, and it is a whole other issue of veterans, war participants and their social rights. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1203	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1204	Mr. Grouchy, I guess I made a little mistake the day before yesterday. I'm too afraid of you. At this speed, and probably Marko Danilovic, who had to draw attention to you, you missed the provisions of articles 145 and 165 relating to the amendments. When those provisions are missed, then the debate goes through this so that someone pretends to be Tosha from Pancheva and peeks at her water. I need to draw your attention that we don't have a report from the Judicial Committee, we don't have a report from the Legislative Committee on this bill, because these committees can't get together, they can't work, there's no quorum. The quorum in these committees does not exist because the democratic bloc did not create conditions for committees to work normally. They do not respect the fundamental principles of parliamentary life. It's not the only mistake. An even bigger mistake follows, she'll be around 2400 hours. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, can you imagine finding the queen of democracy and the drone of democracy in one place, boasting that they respect law, is the right sacredness, the Constitution in particular. They'd never do anything past the Constitution, past the law. What they voted from Bodrum, it didn't happen to them, it happened to someone else. The fact that, as in Germany for thirty and a few years, only when the Reichstag was set on fire came democracy and freedom at the head of Hitler, and we were set on fire, freedom came. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you must know that there are governmental parties here, but they have ruined two states. They destroyed the SRJ and destroyed the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. You need to know, Mr. Mrkonjic, if you're the chairman of the throne of democracy with the queen of democracy and those who scare the Democrats with another party, they'll take an oath here, that we don't have a standard to measure whether it's honest enough. Democracy can't go on without honesty. Many of the rules of the Rules of Procedure have been violated only because democracy in this form has no alternative. This is a ground-floor form of democracy, like what is pretending to be Tosha, from Pancheva, and says that the Russians have given us only five votes and thus is replicated to Alexander Vukic. It can only be interpreted as a very high intensity of emotions at a very low level of political thinking. Mr. Grouchy, take a little check. I appreciate that you demonstrate tolerance, cultivate the right to dialogue, but keep an eye on what's being seen here as a democracy, they're just a bunch of lowlifes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1205	I ask the MPs to make sure we don't take offense, there's no need. I don't miss courage. In each of these regimes, I've been given a medal myself. So I expect another one from now on, if we trust them tonight. I'll trust them. Mr. Wolf, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1206	Mr. Moron, I appreciate you very much, but I would never boast that I've won anything in every regime. (President: You are young, Mr. Wolfie.) ( ) Thank you, Mr. Grouchy, but I'm pleased that we're different about that, too. However, with the greatest respect, Mr. Mr. Gristle, I've come to say that no one was disputed that we were right. Mr. Aligrudić only realized that we were right, and we have nothing to do with it. The fact that we're right and we're telling the truth, we knew that the moment we saw the acts that gave us the congregation staff here, but what's the legal consequence? I also prayed for Mr. Aligrudic's answer, but also any of you from the DSS. For these "yellows," I know, and when, God forbid, kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija, they'll cry out "lives of the EU, we love the ones who took Kosovo and Metohija". My question to you: when Olli Rehn officially announces that the EU is in favour of the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, will you or won't support such an EU policy, will you continue, as a Kraut tra-la, "lived EU", or will you say "lived Serbia", what was your slogan? We, without slogans, always shout "alive Serbia", not only in election campaigns, so we are different from you. I'd just say something about whether or not there was anything to defend myself in Vukovar, Knin, Trebinj, Banjaluci, anywhere else. Some have not seen reason to defend themselves in Vukovar. According to the list conducted by the Croatian communist authorities, the naked anti-Serbian communist rule, was almost equal to the number of Serbs and Croats in Vukovar, but with Yugoslavs, of course, a significant number of Serbs, and of course only Serbs pleaded as Yugoslavs. These people lived in the SFRY as an internationally recognised entity, not in the Republic of Croatia, which is Broz's creation, in order to make a mistake for the Serbian people. To remind you, Baranja was never part of any non-Croatian state, but of Croatian autonomy within another country. So, absolutely never through history, through centuries, until Broz said so, and then those limits became God's official, and someone saw no reason. And in that we differ, which I don't think we are better and worse and that in anything we are different here than the Serbs from Vukovar, from the Serbs from Knin, from the Serbs from Banja Luka, from the Serbs from Trebinj, from the Serbs from Beran, Pljevlja or any other place. If there's any genius here, mother's son too smart to tell me what the difference is between the Serbians from Prijepolje and the Serbians from Pljevalj? They belong to the same eparchy, divided only by an apple. Is there anyone who can explain to me what the difference is, in what? I've never seen her before. When that Serb is threatened in that place, the one in Belgrade and elsewhere is at risk, because we do not have a reserve people and we cannot belong to the reserve. We love everyone, like we love all the kids in the world, but somehow we love our kids the most. I literally love every child, but I have to tell you, for a shade, I prefer my Daniel and my militia. If it's a sin, then it's a sin that I love my people a little more, and I respect all the other peoples. I think it's normal and natural. How come some people don't understand it, how some people don't understand it? Now let me ask you what it has to say today, when every night the Croats come to our senses that we are criminals, a genocidal people, a genocide state. They only love one political party here and now they love Boris Tadic, as a boy from Solana, who has obeyed everything he has been ordered to do. No one else. Is that some kind of problem in us or in them? In us, because we are treading our own country, because we are trampling our own people, because we are not interested in how many Serbs are in Vukovar today, how many Serbs are in Knin today, in Glina, in Vrgin Most, in the Court of the Union, or in any other place, because here is the only thing that interests anyone, that is - how much I will sell NIS and how much commission I have, how much will this one enter Buk Bijelo, if Tadic or Kostunica provide him with a pass at Dodik. Is that a job? Is that the only question for the state? I don't think so. As for those who do not understand why Serbs from Belgrade are interested in how Serbs live in Banja Luka, Knin, Vukovar or any other place, I do not know what their problem is, but for this is not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, some other institutions are responsible. "Justice sometimes sleeps, but never dies," a Latin proverb is famous. Regardless of all the injustices and whatever they took from us and took from us, look today, when you mentioned Vukovar, with how proud Serbian children wear the uniforms of the Serbian, Star and Partizan team; and today they want to say that one day, in 30 or 50 years, they live together with their people. It's not a crime, it's justice, it's the best and most beautiful wish anyone can have. If no one, those kids can't be banned.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1207	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1208	Mr. Chairman, I am sorry that Mr. Canak is not here, because Mr. Chanko's views regarding the 1990s and the invitation to Professor Stojanovic are a fine link to the story, because Professor Stojanovic is a member of that political option that, after 2000, gave up everything that she pointed out as her virtue in the 1990s. I'm talking about his public appearances on behalf of our national defense team at the International Court of Justice trial in The Hague. He tried harder to give negative qualifications to Serbia's political system in the 1990s than he tried to show us how the situation of things was. How good, quality and competent our team best tells us that the whole strategy of our team was based on the position that the International Court of Justice in The Hague absolutely ignored and simply did not discuss. After we heard, Mr. Stojanovic's views and others, uh, it's good, we were wrong, but fortunately, the verdict was not given to Serbia. It best says how competent they were. Thank God, there was nothing that could be found as evidence, a fact. Otherwise, as public opinion was created, Serbia would certainly be convicted, but it is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1209	Thank you, Zarka Obradovic. Earlier, Mr. Vucic appeared, then Željko Vasiljevic, then Rajko Baralić, all over the Business. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came forward because I did not just say everything about Radoslav Stojanovic, who was mentioned, and I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia to know what state we have. I think today, in this short time... In short, because of the goodwill of the Serbian Radical Party, and I will explain to those citizens who would like to prevent your government from choosing what we were prepared to do. I went out to explain everything to people. But I need to explain who is and what is Radoslav Stojanovic. Respected citizens of Serbia, for those who do not read all the press, they could not hear that Mr Stojanovic, otherwise a representative of our country in the Netherlands, told the ambassador -- a great name, in the most harsh way, insulted the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska who were trapped in The Hague tribunal, so brutally and rudely, with such untruths and such forgeries, that neither Carla del Ponte did. He didn't just step on Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not only has it trampled the basic moral standards, but it has shown how low our country has fallen and how far Serbia does not exist today as a state. Instead of fighting with all hearts and standing up for every man in the tribunal today, but absolutely for everyone, because it is his obligation, not his right and opportunity, he found himself acting worse than Carla del Ponte herself. Radoslav Stojanovic thus showed what moral nothingness and moral misery are. But it doesn't matter, Radoslav Stojanovic, he showed how the miserable state we have today. No one in the state reacted and no one warned him. No one said a word to him about it. You want me to tell you why? Because the ambassadors have no responsibility. Because with us, there are also those who are very professional, who set up a drunk journalist and writer, and I don't know who, just because he was on their side on October 5th; they return the services, this one will renovate, this one won't take another commission. Then you can see how our country is at low levels and how fast we're going down. This Radoslav Stojanovic is a disgrace and disgrace to Serbia. Brooke and the shame of this country. But that's our country. Our entire country is in such a difficult state, it can't be harder. Today, several citizens asked me – why do you allow them to choose the government, why not obstruct the Assembly all day long? Respected citizens of Serbia (I address them), the government has come up with methods to avoid everything. We behave with dignity, honor, democracy. We've been informed that they have a majority, despite their lack of majority support in the people. All parties, when you add, have 44%, and now they have much less than 35. It doesn't matter, the election was held, they had 44%. They even came up with a lex specialis that can't be done today, which they would say can be done with delay. You can't complain. You don't have a Constitutional Court, you don't have anyone. For a year, the Constitutional Court will settle it in two years and say yes, you were right. Two years of their reign have passed. Whatever you do, they've got a befel from Ollie Reno, Javier Solana, the Americans to continue to hold an autocratic, unmistakable dictatorial power, with their support, regardless of legal norms and all the laws. We're not getting into that machine of theirs. We'll criticize their power, and then we'll see what they've done and how they'll do. I have a question for Mr. Aligrudic and I will be persistent today. I would ask you, Mr. Aligrudic, at the end of today's debate, because you have seen how good the Serbian Radical Party has shown, no matter what you have done to fraud, lies and immorality, not to Serbian radicals, but to Serbian citizens, I have a question to ask which answer. Citizens want to hear it, is it more important for you to court Talina, Rigi, Villanus, Kaunas, or I don't know who, or Brussels, or the citizens of Prilužje, Nobility, Gorazdevac, Gračanica, Chaglavice, Strpce, Raniluga, Kosovo Vitina, Shilova, Novi Brdo or any other place? I'm asking you because I'm not going to listen tonight for the hundredth time to Vojislav Kostunica who will say – European integration is our priority, and I don't know what kind of nonsense he'll be talking about, but let him say, when Olli Rehn comes to Belgrade and says, "Here's a visa relief, you won't pay 35 euros anymore, but 34, you won't wait 15 days in line, but 14.5 days, when that wonderful news tells you Olli Rehn, I have nothing against it, and when he tells us afterwards that he's kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija, what is your reaction? I'm not asking what your reaction is. I can see your reaction. I see he's happy as a little child, hoping to be a minister of justice, now he's going to be minister of local self-government, what's the matter. I'm interested in your reaction, Mr. Aligrudic. What are you going to tell Serbian citizens? Is Tallinn and Brussels more important than Gracanica, Caglavica and Kosovo Mitrovica? That's my question for you. I set it up a few times today, and I didn't get the answer. What happens when Ollie Ren says it's for... Not what's your principle, since we know your principles. What will happen when Olli Rehn says the European Union is definitely in favour of an independent Kosovo? That's my key question. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we are proud of the citizens of Serbia who will endure this evil that is coming to us, and they have endured many things. But I said, there's one good thing, every day their rule is a day less that we have to endure until the final freedom, every day getting closer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1211	According to the Rules of Procedure, Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the provisions of Article 139, point 3, 4 have been violated. No committee in charge has come forward on the draft law, nor has the Legislative Committee spoken of whether the proposal for a law on ministries is in accordance with the Constitution. That's no wonder, because the other day your candidate for Parliament President Mr Oliver Dulic promoted the thesis on political segregation. He said that some had soiled political biography by agreeing to sit with MPs from some parliamentary groups, so that was the reason they managed not to join the committees with those same MPs, and then you were left at the mercy of opposition MPs on committees - legislative and parent. Everything in life isn't the way you want it to be, it's usually the way it has to be. Mr. Canak here said that some people saved Serbia by being deserters. It's a sad country that depends on desertion. I will write to you, Mr. Dulic, for what you have said, in a mandate that is going to be charged every second, I will write an amendment to every member of the law that has been passed, and I will report to the Rules of Procedure whenever possible, and I will participate in the work of all the committees, when there are 250 or 10 MPs. No one has ever said that, as you said the other day – that some MPs have dirtyed their political biographies by sitting at the same table with some other MPs. We'll have more, it's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1213	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. He has the word Mr. Vladan Batic, so Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. Please be patient, we have five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1214	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this debate yesterday has turned into a simple farce today. This is not only about flagrant violations of the Rules of Procedure, it's about the Constitution. How is the ministry law passed? I think it's completely illusory to extend this controversy, because both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure have been violated. So it's time, you know that – la comedia e finita. This is a gentleman's agreement to form a government. The law was not in principle adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The debate on amendments is being conducted in order, without getting into the essentials of certain provisions of the law and we all know how it should be done. So, I think it's totally illusory that we're extending this imitation of the bill. There's no need. I think it's time we move on to what's coming, which is to crown that marriage from the account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1215	Thank you, Mr. Batic. There's a word for Mr. Albianic, so Mr. Toma Nikolic. They'll withdraw some amendments, just one minute, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1216	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with the agreement, I am withdrawing amendments to the following articles: 2, 16, 17, 44 and 49. I call on MPs to vote on the two amendments I retain, which are amendments to Article 14 and Article 36, also in line with the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1217	Thank you. There's a word, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1218	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, retaining the right to discuss amendments G 17 plus, for which Mr Albianic said he was staying with them and could vote for them, in order to explain to you why these amendments are so important for the company G 17 plus, the SRS informs Serbian citizens that Serbia's Constitution was written for normal states, normal politicians and for a normal democratic multi-party system in one country. Such a normal constitution, for normal people, predicted that three months was enough for the constitution of the government after the elections were held. However, the constitution did not predict anything, that politicians who could appear for three months could not agree, who would lose three months to build a government, even though they knew when the last deadline was, and then turn to the National Assembly to do what they needed three months of work in the last 48 hours. The Serbian Radical Party could, by democratic procedure, respecting the Constitution, laws and Rules of Procedure, make today's choice impossible by the government of the Republic of Serbia. If we were like you, who came out of the hall that night when the president of the Assembly, who did not want to give candidates for committees, did not want to enter the hall while one of the elected MPs led a session of the National Assembly, tonight the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would be disbanded. It would all be in line with the rules, even with the interests of the Serbian Radical Party. There is something more important than that, and it is our desire not to prevent the parliamentary majority from carrying out what they want. We don't want to interfere with the procedure when there are 126 of you who want to do this. Remember today. Every time you put clips in wheels stronger than yourself, think that the Constitution predicted that when they're strong enough not only do you have to stop them from doing what they want, but that you need to help them. I'll give my opinion of this government when I hear the exposés. I'm convinced I could discuss it right now. National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will keep all promises made to public citizens of Serbia. So I ask the members of the Serbian Radical Party, who are trying to find out why we're not interrupting you tonight, that they have patience, that wisdom leads the SRS. We are today fulfilling the promises we made, and you can freely proceed today, without the participation of the MPs of the SRS, in the formal detention of the session of the end. We now tell you that before midnight we will leave you enough time to approach the vote and choose your own government. It is my duty to warn you, dear People's Messengers, who will do the Parliament's majority, that you do evil to yourself and to Serbia. I warn you of that now. Pull yourself together once again, there is time to give up this move that you are destroying yourself, and there will be ways to stop you from destroying Serbia. We will participate only as much as a good advice given through our discussions on the composition of the government will help. I beg you, ambassadors from the Serbian Radical Party, no longer discuss this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1219	I thank Mr. Nikolic. I apologize to all MPs who will not be able to explain their amendments today, and I am concluding a review of the bill in particular. We're moving on to a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break. Please remain in the O.R. just to prepare for the vote. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Can we get back to work? I ask the MPs to determine the quorum. Put your cards on. I understand we have a quorum, 139 MPs have inserted their cards. I put the draft law on ministries to the vote, in principle. For 131 against 106, with four abstentions, five MPs did not vote, out of 246 MPs. That's a nice picture in the O.R. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I would like to inform you that Mr Albianic has withdrawn his amendments to Articles 2, 16, 17, 44 and 49. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Vladan Batic withdrew. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 76, against 132, there were no 11 votes, of 219 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 81, against 133, they did not vote 24 out of 238 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. I'm putting a motion to vote. For 81, against 136, 22 of the 239 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 93, v. 136, did not vote 12 out of 241 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Vasiljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 134, there was no vote of 10, of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 135, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 136, there were no 11 votes, of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 135, 12 of the 243 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Marton. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 130, 22 of the 242 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Ninety-nine against 135, not nine out of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 131, there was no 103 vote of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 106, against 130, it did not vote 7, out of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 103, against 129, there were no 11 votes, of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 105, against 131, 7 of the 243 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 136, there were no 11 votes, of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 136, there was no vote of 10, of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 135, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 134, 15 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 135, it was not 13 out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 132, 17 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 135, 15 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Mr Nikola Novakovic withdraws the amendment to Article 6. Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slavko Jerkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 134, it was not 13 out of 243 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 135, it was not 13 out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Mr Batic withdrew the amendment to Article 8. I thank you again. Mr. Shane has withdrawn the amendment to Article 8. Members of the 8th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Andrea Galgo-Ferenci and Balint Pastor. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 156, against two, abstentions, he did not vote 81, out of a total of 241 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 132, 96 of the 241 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Mašić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 93 against 133 did not vote 18 out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 134, 15 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Article 10. Vladan Batic withdrew the amendment. The 10th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 129, it did not vote 106, of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 134, 14 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 135, 15 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 135, it was not 13 out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Vladan Batic withdrew the amendment to Article 12. Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Perjanicic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 120, 111 out of 243 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Vladan Batic withdrew the amendment to Article 13. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 132, 18 of the 246 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Miloljub Albianic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 126, against 101, it did not vote 19 out of 246 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, v. 127, there was no 111 vote of 246 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 128, he did not vote 21 out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 130, there was no vote of 20, of 245 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Vasiljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 130, 17 of the 246 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 133, it did not vote 16 out of 246 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petronijevic and Zarko Obradovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 131, 18 of the 246 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Zeljko Vasiljevic submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that a new member of 15a be added after article 15a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 98, against 128, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, out of a total of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milosevic Albianic withdrew the amendment to the article. 16. The 16th Amendment was submitted by Milosav Miličković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 130, he did not vote 21 out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. You're pulling back? Let me see you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Grubeshic. The amendment has been withdrawn. The 16th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic, also withdrawn. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic, also withdrawn. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, 17 of the 244 MPs did not vote against 131. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sasa Valjarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 129, there was no vote of 20, of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by Miloljub Albianic. The amendment has been withdrawn. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 131, 19 of the 245 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic, also withdrawn. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic, also withdrawn. The 19th Amendment was submitted by Ninoslav Dimitrijevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 94, against 131, 19 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 122, 26 of the 241 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Four, against 130, were not voted by 111 out of 245 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 99, against 128, it did not vote 19 out of 246 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 128, they did not vote 22 out of 246 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 124, 25 of the 245 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dejan Mirovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 22a be added after article 22. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 95, against 135, it did not vote 15 out of 245 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that a new member of 22a be added after article 22a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 130, a abstentioned one, did not vote 95, out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 132, 17 of the 245 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Marton. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 127, it did not vote 107, out of 246 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vladan Batic and Aleksandar Marton. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 129, 102 of the 244 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zvonko Mihajlovic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 93, against 128, did not vote 23, of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Otto Kishmarton has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added after Article 24a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 97, against 126, 22 of the 245 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov has submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing that a new Article 24a be added after article 24a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 128, they did not vote 103 out of 245 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Riza Halimi has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added after Article 24. The amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 24b be added after Article 24a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 114, three abstentions, 115 did not vote, out of 244 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vlado Sekulic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 96, against 133, it did not vote 16 out of 245 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 98, with five abstentions, they did not vote 134, out of 246 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Nebojsa Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 92, against 132, he did not vote 21 out of 245 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Ivica Dacic has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1221	I would ask you, regardless of the need for this to end in time, to respect the Rules of Procedure until the end. The amendments are withdrawn until the end of the debate in particular. The amendments cannot be withdrawn now, the vote has begun. The amendment cannot be withdrawn during the vote. First of all, I warn the Secretary of the National Assembly or his assistant that we are taking care of the Rules of Procedure, which does not mean that we should now do the opposite of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1222	Thank you, Mr. Dacic, for your warning. We're almost done. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Amjad Migati. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 124, two abstentions, were not voted 25 out of 240 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Riza Halimi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 103, a abstentioned one, did not vote 129 out of 242 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Marton. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 116, it was not 116 out of 240 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Nikolic-Vukajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 112, they did not vote 44 out of 241 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Miloljub Albianic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 189, two abstentions, did not vote 25 out of 241 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 37th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 93, against 129, there was no vote of 20, of 242 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Riza Halimi has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 42a be added after article 42a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 164, a abstentioned one, did not vote 68, out of 241 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Slavisa Topalovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 90, against 124, 25 of the 239 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. The amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic to Article 49. The amendment has been withdrawn. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 237 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on ministries in general. For 133, against 92, the abstention of three, did not vote 13, out of 241 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on ministries. I'm taking a five-minute break, but don't part with me, please. [[After break – 17.30]] I welcome the Prime Minister's composition and future members of the new government. I apologize for the little delay. So far it's all in time, I hope it's still going to be. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – I inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the Prime Minister's term of office, also urged candidates for members of the government to attend this part of the session. You have received a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, who is in agreement with Article 121(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the President of the Republic, Mr Boris Tadic. You have received the consent of Mr Vojislav Kostunica, a candidate for Prime Minister, to accept the candidacy in writing. In this way, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, conditions were met: that the candidate for Prime Minister should present to the National Assembly a programme of the Government and propose a composition of the Government (Article 127(2)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia); to open a search for a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government (Article 191. Rules of Procedure; that, when elected by the Government, we shall determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers without portfolios in the Government, on a proposal from the Prime Minister's candidate and elect the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in the Government (Articles 99, paragraph 1) and Article 125(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 10. The Government Act); and that members of the Government take an oath before the National Assembly (Article 16. The Government Act. I ask Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, the candidate for Prime Minister, to present his programme to the National Assembly and propose the composition of the government. There's a word for candidate for Prime Minister Mr. Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1224	Dear People's MPs, today the National Assembly, which expresses the will of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, should make a decision and declare whether it supports the formation of a new Serbian government, with a programme and a composition of ministers, which, as a prime minister, I propose to the Serbian Parliament. I remind you that Serbia, through the will of the people shown in the referendum, has received a new Constitution and that, according to the new Constitution, we are about to round up the process of establishing the highest institutions of the state. The formation of the government at this time, without a doubt, creates conditions to achieve over the country's necessary stability, and I believe that we will all agree that internal stability is a key condition for Serbia to move forward with strong steps. If I have to point out one and the highest goal of this government, if everything could be considered one and the highest goal, the first goal of this government is: in Serbia, in every part of it, in Gracanica, and in Kosovo Mitrovica, and in Bujanovac, and in Književec, and in Loznica and in Subotica, therefore in each part of Serbia, there must be a better, calmer, safer, more work for the citizens, and their overall standard of life must be better. And you, MPs, will easily be able to judge and assess the government's work on the basis of an assessment of whether the government has successfully met this very first and highest goal it has set for itself. To achieve this goal, government-educated parties have decided to place the interests of the state, nation and citizens above each other's party differences and party interests. We have reached full agreement on the five key principles of government policy. These principles concern Kosovo and Metohija, European integration, co-operation with The Hague tribunal, social and economic policies and the fight against crime and corruption. Dear People's MPs, I will refer only to these five basic programming principles, which I agree with as a proposal for a new government of Serbia, and of course, exhibits in general, with all the details relating to certain segments of government policy, you have received in writing. Serbia's constitution, as the first and highest obligation, requires every state institution to preserve the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. That is why the first programme principle of government work also refers to a clear definition of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. The government stems from the fact that the state Kosovo policy is defined, firstly, by the Constitution of Serbia, by the people's will in the referendum and the adopted resolutions of the National Assembly, which concern Kosovo and Metohija, which were more so. In the previous period, three of the most important institutions of the state, the National Assembly, the Serbian Government and the President of the Republic, had a single policy, conducted by the state negotiating team. The national negotiating team regularly submitted a report to the National Assembly and, as you well know, remains obliged to send another such report to the National Assembly. It is of the highest importance for the country to preserve the unity of the highest state institutions, based on the already established state policy for Kosovo and Metohija, and I am confident that this will be the case. Since every citizen of Serbia knows well that the state policy for Kosovo and Metohija means that Kosovo, according to the Charter of the United Nations and in agreement with the Constitution of Serbia, is an integral and inalienable part of Serbia's territory, I do not feel that there is a need for me to present all the elements of our proposal on essential, or supervised autonomy within Serbia. It is more purpose if I remain at the potential temptations, I underline -- temptations, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, which threaten us in the immediate future. It is known that several members of the Security Council have submitted a draft resolution, aimed at allowing independence of our province, based on Ahtisaari's plan, to be declared. I want to inform you that the current government of Serbia, the President of the Republic and the entire negotiating team have made the most possible efforts to change the opinion of the influential states that advocate Kosovo's independence. Our argument was strong, firmly legally and morally justified, convincingly reasoned and fully documented in the United Nations Security Council. At the same time, Serbia has been intensive since the start of the government so far, I would say on a daily basis, co-operated with the Russian Federation to formulate a coherent policy to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Several meetings of the Prime Minister and the president of the Republic of Serbia with Russia's top officials have contributed significantly to defining the common position. Starting with a principled view that international law must be respected and that Serbia cannot, contrary to the Charter of the United Nations, be kidnapped 15% of its territory, Russia has made it clear that a new Security Council resolution, which would not rest on the existing Resolution 1244, would not confirm Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity and inviolability of its internationally recognised borders, is unacceptable. That's why this government, as it did before, will come from the fact that the Security Council is the last institution in the world that can trample on the throne and that the Security Council will not adopt a resolution that kidnaps one member of the United Nations 15% of its territory. I simply believe that there are countries, such as Russia, that will prevent the principles and the foundations on which the entire international order rests. Albanian separatists threatened violence unless they gained independence, thus trying to blackmail the international community. It is still said that if there is violence, the victims will be responsible, not the violent and the terrorists. On this occasion, we publicly warn the international community, which took responsibility for peace in the province, so that it would not only be a terrorist crime but also those who did not prevent the crime, even though they could have been warned in time. Albanian separatists have also threatened to force the province's provisional institutions to unilaterally declare independence unless the international community approves the creation of another Albanian state, this time on Serbia's soil. When it comes to unilaterally declaring the province's independence, the government advances its stance: any such act for Serbia is completely void and such an act will not and cannot cause any change in the country's constitutional and legal system. Every citizen in Kosovo and Metohija must know that he is a Serbian citizen and is guaranteed by the Serbian Constitution and that any unilateral decision by temporary institutions should be rejected and completely ignored. Every citizen in Kosovo and Metohija must know that his assembly and his government will always be in Belgrade. So now I'm talking to them, all of our citizens on Cosmet with a clear message. You must know that for the state of Serbia, Kosovo is forever an integral and inalienable part of our territory and you must be aware that every unilateral declaration and recognition of independence is an ordinary fog and spider. Even more specifically, unilateral recognition is less than zero and it will not scare you and make you leave your homes and our province. The government is forming a new ministry -- the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, in order to confirm in part that the Serbian government will always have a province within Serbia, and that ministry must help every citizen in the province in every way. When it comes to the possibility for some countries to recognise the province's unilaterally declared independence, I would like to remind you that in the Security Council on 3 April this year, I made an unequivocal, defined position on Serbia. On this occasion, Serbia has sent a clear warning that Security Council Resolution 1244 has a binding force for all United Nations member states, which means that no state should violate this resolution and unilaterally determine itself according to the province's future status. The government will lead a consistent policy based on the belief that any unilateral recognition of Kosovo's independence would be the most harsh and even double violation of the United Nations norm. In such a case, as is known more than clearly, the Charters of the United Nations and the current Resolution 1244 would be violated. By doing so, any state that decides on such an illegal act would directly undermine the authority of the world organisation. The Security Council, honourable MPs, is finally familiar with our arguments and the view that the Serbian government would completely reject any recognition of the province's independence. To conclude, possibly unilateral recognition by individual countries of the province's independence, it is time and time to speak about it, would be a direct demeaning of the authority of the Security Council and a violation of the Charter of the United Nations, Resolution 1244 and the Constitution of Serbia. By doing so, the Serbian government in advance rejects as nothing and for Serbia without any form of unilateral recognition and advances to say that Serbia will always treat Kosovo as its component. The government also warns that the eventual recognition of the province's independence cannot in any case be presented as an act of friendship with Serbia, because it can only mean an act of harshest interference in other country's internal affairs. It is understood that any state that would decide to recognise unilaterally declared independence must take into account that this would also result in serious consequences in mutual relations, in accordance with international conduct. I would like to point out that the answer of every citizen in Cosmet and the Serbian government to any form of unilateral recognition simply stands – Kosovo remains a province within Serbia. The government stems from the belief that influential states in the international community will stick to the general principles of international law and that no one will dare resort to unilateral recognition. For his part, the government expresses its full readiness to take up its share of responsibility for finding an agreed and fair solution and will be ready to start talks at any moment and participate in the new negotiating process. We believe it is possible to find a compromise and we will be persistent in demanding that we talk and that an acceptable form of autonomy for the Albanian minority in Kosovo and Metohija must be found. The second, however, is the key programme principle of government policy among the five that I listed at the outset are European integration. I'll say something about them too. The continuation of the stabilisation and accession process is very important in the context of Serbia's overall orientation towards European integration. As little work remains to be done before the negotiations are terminated on the agreement itself, we expect the part of the deal to be done shortly after the government's entry into office. Compared to negotiations and the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is necessary to restore the European Partnership's operational plan on the country's short and medium-term commitments in the European integration process. Direct renewal of this process is important for the success of the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Full membership of Serbia in the European Union has clearly been declared a programme definition for each of the parties entering the coalition government. It is equally clear and undeniable that Serbia's accession process to the European Union cannot in any way be compensated for any concessions in terms of Serbia's territorial integrity. It's simply, in every respect, a completely excluded possibility. When it comes to European integration, the government will primarily seek to continue and speed up the process of passing laws that are adapted to the European Union's legislative structure. In addition, full energy will continue to seek that all criteria concerning human and minority rights, media freedom, the principles of economic business, independence and efficiency of the judiciary and educational standards be met as fully and timely as possible. The first steps to follow in the coming days will be the paraphrasing of the visa relief agreement for our citizens, and immediately mention the continuation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations. Serbia is entering international integration processes as a unity of states with internationally recognised borders, within which Kosovo and Metohija are located as its integral and inalienable part. Serbia participates in integration processes primarily because of its national and national interests. Serbia has entered the stabilisation and accession process as the unity of the country and for us every step closer to entering wider integration is a step away from the country's disintegration. Participation in the process of stabilisation and accession will also be important for our legislative policy and as effective as possible in implementing adopted laws. From the very beginning of its mandate, the government will join in harmonising the law with the new Constitution and with the rules and legal standards of the European Union. It is also necessary to continue with targeted training and to strengthen our national administration that is working daily at the work of approaching the European Union. As it is otherwise about Serbia's long-term and basic orientation, the government will go from a national accession strategy to the European Union adopted in 2005, which highlights the basic elements of the accession policy and the obligations of state bodies, businesses and other social factors in this long-term process. Achieving EU candidate status must be our first and short-term goal. Serbia must get as close as possible to the EU internal market. It is necessary to maintain the pace of economic development, further improve the business climate for attracting foreign investment, reducing the unemployment rate and introducing measures to prevent new unemployment, a rapid continuation of restructuring, including public enterprises. General denationalisation and privatisation of construction land should be carried out, industrial and agricultural standards should be accelerated in domestic production. Of course, it is particularly important to develop and support the efficient functioning of new regulatory bodies, especially the Commission for the Protection of Competition, as the success of these regulatory bodies will be the basis for assessing whether Serbia is able to participate actively in the European market. A great deal of attention, of course, must also be focused on improving justice and home affairs, which are a top priority for all potential EU candidates. The independent judiciary and the fight against organised crime and, in particular, corruption are a criterion for assessing the rule of law in the democratic state. The strategies built in these areas must be applied and sufficient resources must be provided for their implementation. Of course, with the European principle, with this principle of European integration, with the process of European integration, the third principle of government policy is also directly linked, and this is a successful and comprehensive end to co-operation with The Hague tribunal. This means that there is agreement that all measures must be taken to end co-operation with The Hague tribunal as soon as possible, because this is primarily Serbia's interest. Strengthened engagement and inclusion of all state authorities and institutions is necessary in order to meet Serbia's international obligations to this institution successfully, according to The Hague tribunal. To that end, an agreement was reached to immediately establish a National Security Council that will co-ordinate the work of all intelligence services and direct activities to meet obligations to the tribunal as soon as possible. The fourth key government policy programme principle concerns socio-economic issues. The government's majority parties are unique in the assessment and practical definition that the key objectives of government policy are to reduce unemployment and poverty, improve citizens' living standards, continue large strategic investments, such as highway and pipeline construction, complete privatisation, attract new direct investments, strengthen economic integration and increase joint investments with the Republic of Serbia and countries in the region. The government's key priority in social policy is to reduce unemployment and poverty. The government's plan is that by 2010, the annual employment rate is steadily increasing and the unemployment rate is dropping and up to 70% of unemployed persons are involved in the various types of active employment measures. Through transition centres, the government will allow employees to overqualified and retain their jobs or find new employment. In particular, employment will be encouraged in devasted areas and areas with high unemployment, as well as employment of young people, women, persons with disabilities, members of individual ethnic minorities. All of this will be followed by active policy measures to reduce the overall tax burden and introduce new tax reliefs for employers. The government will bring comprehensive social programmes for each privatisation to protect employees' rights. Starting with a significant decrease in the number of poor in Serbia over the past three years, the government will continue to continuously reduce the number of poor to the least possible extent by applying the active social policy measures. In order to reduce poverty, the government will step up the reform of the social protection system through the following measures, such as: the adoption of social protection laws, the improvement of the quality of social services, the transformation of social protection institutions, the construction and adaptation of living rooms for children with developmental disturbances, then the elderly, persons with disabilities and children with behavioral disorders, the adaptation of housing units for their own housing, thus enabling all users of social institutions to live on their own as equal citizens. This will also be achieved by building and equipping small homes for the accommodation of the old, developing foster care institutes and improving the conditions for housing in foster families of children without parental ageing, children distracted by development and children with behavioural disorders. The government will ensure the economic security of pensioners, continue with regular pension payments, eventually settle all past debts and maintain an appropriate ratio of average pension and average earnings. Persons with disabilities will be given equal opportunities for their work and employment, by making the government a legal obligation in all businesses to reach 25% by 2011. The government will also ensure the housing of the poor, and especially the refugees and exiled, and to this end bring social housing law and social housing programme. The reduction in poverty, the increase in employment, the increase in the standard of living of citizens is based on real assumptions and real indicators. Gross social product per capita's head is constantly growing. Serbia became the leader of the Balkans at the speed of reform and at the same time a recordr at the height of GDP growth in Southeast Europe in 2006. Foreign direct investment has increased more than four times, privatisation revenues are increasing multiple. Also to point out, Serbia has not only become a place to invest, it has become an investor itself. Telecom Serbia bought "Telecom Srpske" at a price of 646m euros in tender, which is historically the largest investment by a Serbian firm, of the exceptional importance of a special parallel relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. On the basis of the real results achieved and planned economic growth at an annual rate of 6%, the government's goal is to achieve 80% of the EU's gross social product by 2012, to make the annual growth of Serbia's economy exports as 17% and to provide three to five billion dollars of investment annually. The largest foreign investment expected in Serbia is investment in energy. The government's plan, based on realistic assumptions, is to provide at least three billion euros in new investments over the next three years, primarily in the gas and oil industries. For example, the government plans to build a pipeline of about 400km in length and worth about a billion euros in two years. Significant investments, as is known, are planned to build a road network through the National Investment Plan and through concessions. By 2010, the highway on corridor 10 and the Belgrade-Požega highway will be fully completed. The government will provide traffic investments with part of its own income, and part of the loans agreed with the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, the European Agency for Reconstruction and EU funds. With regard to privatisation and restructuring of the economy, the government will end up privatising the social sector of the economy. It will continue with a responsible restructuring of the public sector of the economy, increasing the efficiency of companies, freeing them from budgetary dependence, investing in reconstruction and modernisation through technological and organisational alignment with EU standards. The amendments and additions of the Privatisation Act will also be carried out in order to clearly define the principles and rules of privatisation of public enterprises and the authority of the state and authorities of local self-government in this process and to enable all full-time citizens to take action through the Privatization Register, or the National Privatisation Fund, to pass a law on the national privatisation fund to Serbia, which will regulate the way and procedure for the distribution of free actions to Serbian citizens who have not used this right, end the sale of shares from the portfolio of the Republic of Serbia's Action Fund with the aim of speeding up the withdrawal of the state's participation in capital of privatised enterprises inherited from the earlier period, bring about a law on the privatisation of urban construction land, thereby increasing investment, develop the property market and ensure that citizens have the right of unlimited availability of their immovable assets, ensuring that all the social programmes for their privatisation and privatisation will be implemented. Finally, we come to the fifth, key government policy programme principle, which is a continuation of the fight against organised crime and every form of corruption. It is the natural pursuit of every society to ensure the rule of law, which means the possibility for all citizens to live safely and well from their honest work. Unfortunately, the majority of the population still live very hard today, so we have a great fight ahead so that finally every citizen of Serbia can say that his standard of living is more sensitive. We all see how much patience and understanding our citizens have shown for those real and great difficulties that the state is going through. However, what no individual in our country has and must have understanding is still corruption in all parts of society. We are aware that, perhaps worse than anything else, injustice burns every single one of our men when he sees corruption unrelentingly snatching a dinar from the poorest part of the population. Therefore, the Serbian government must strike even harder, stronger and more systematically at every phenomenon of crime and corruption. I know well how much people and citizens look forward to hearing that justice is served and that this or that mob is brought to justice. As long as I am convinced that in Serbia the law is stronger than any individual, and as long as I believe the government has the power to deal with every form of crime and corruption, I will be the head of the government. The government's starting point in the fight against corruption is the National Strategy and Action Plan to fight corruption. A successful fight against this kind of social evil implies effective application of anti-corruption regulations, prevention, that is to say, removing the possibility of corruption, raising general awareness and public education for public support for the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy. To this end, even more intensive co-operation between the interior ministry and prosecutors will continue, both in the fight against corruption in the economy and in the fight against corrupt members of judicial authorities. The government will work to combat fully economic crime, a comprehensive regulation of the judiciary, strengthening property rights, as well as bringing corruption to the lowest possible extent in the area of economy. The government will improve the capacity of tax and customs administrations and raise the institutional capacities of all sectors in the finance ministry. All crime scenes will be severely punished in all departments. Special efforts will focus on improving the judiciary and interior services, as the main actors of the fight against corruption and crime. The independent judiciary and the fight against organised crime, in particular corruption, are a basic criterion for assessing the level of rule of law in a democratic state. Special attention will be paid to the prevention of organised crime, both at national, of course, international level. To that end, the government will bring national crime prevention strategies. Special efforts will be made by the Government to fight organised financial crime, i.e. corruption, money laundering and counterfeiting, high-tech crime and all other forms of crime in the area of economic crime, the fight against all kinds of organised production, smuggling and drug trafficking, the fight against terrorism, the detection of organised crime groups, the lighting of the most serious crimes, especially those causing public harassment, the repression of juvenile delinquency. Serbia's future, its progress, can be based solely on the rule of law and the rule of law. So far, the Serbian government has won crime every day, and our big goal is for all of us here in the Assembly together, no matter what party they belong to, to conclude that Serbia has become a truly legal state. Dear People's MPs, since I have laid out these five basic principles of government policy, five basic principles on which parties in the Serbian government have gathered, I would like to introduce you to the plans on the necessary institutional reforms stemming from the Constitution and the constitutional law that has been passed with the new Constitution of Serbia. When I say this, then I mean one big job, which is a joint job, which is the government and the Assembly in the next period, in the coming months they have to share. It is doubtless that the election of a new government will speed up the transformation of institutions and entire legal areas in Serbia. The government intends to strongly exercise its right to legal initiatives and in the area of reforming our institutions. In doing so, the government's tasks stem from the need to create a legal system similar to Serbia as an independent state, given that it was its status since June of last year, in 2006, but that the current legal system is adapted to the new constitutional system, the constitution adopted last October. In doing so, it is also important to respect the order and speed of adoption of the law laid down by the Constitutional Law. One of the government's most impediments is therefore to prepare timely laws governing Serbia's defence, Serbia's Army and foreign affairs. There are laws in the midst of which Serbia's legal order adapts to the needs of an independent state. The passing of these laws is not only necessary because Serbia has become an independent state, but also because the current laws originate from the era of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, believe it or not, even from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Of course, they themselves do not express the essence of Serbia's new constitutional order. The arrangement of the Serbian Army and the defence system should bring together democracy and efficiency. The military and military institutions must be directly subject to the civilian authorities, the President of the Republic and the Government, as well as to be supervised by the highest representative body – the National Assembly. It is also necessary to legislate the constitutional rule under which the work of the Security Service is controlled by the National Assembly. The way to do this is to adopt a new law that will prescribe the regulation of security services and their control, but much clearer and more precise than it was done by the applicable law passed during the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In addition to the law governing foreign affairs, it is necessary to adopt a law that norms the conclusion and execution of international contracts as soon as possible, since it is in force in 1978. In order to allow elections for the President of the Republic and the authorities of local self-government, it is necessary for the Government to propose to the National Assembly as soon as possible the adoption of laws governing the position of the President of the Republic and the elections for the President of the Republic, local self-government and local elections. The law should lay down constitutional rules on the position of the President of the Republic as long as its duty takes place and when it ceases. The Law on Local Self-Government will specify a new constitution to increase Serbia's decentralisation rate and the reorganised system of municipal authorities. The Constitution provides a foothold for abandoning the current principle of rigid division of jurisdiction between municipal authorities, which actually reminds us of the presidential system in our municipalities. One of these goals of the local self-government law will also be to reduce the government's current powers and bring them down to constitutional level. It is particularly important to regulate the position of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court and the proceedings before that court. In the new constitution of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, many and significant ones have changed the position of the Constitutional Court judges and the way they were elected and appointed. The Constitutional Court Act must confirm the democratic achievements of the new Constitution and create complete normative assumptions that the Constitutional Court becomes a guarantee of the preservation of the rule of law, constitutionality and legality, but also an effective protector of human rights and the rights of members of national minorities. The reforms of our institutions undoubtedly include the legislative reshuffle of the judicial system in Serbia. There is a series of laws coming from the judicial district. The new Constitution and constitutional principles must also be in line with the position of citizens' protectors, state audit institutions, governments, state administrations, the National Bank and a whole series of significant institutions. That is, and that is why I wanted to stay on this, in the end, one big legislative job to which we are bound, as you well know, deadlines in the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution, and in some cases it is really regulations that must be passed regardless of these deadlines set in the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution. These would be these basic programming principles, which represent the direction of government action. I'll thank you for your attention. It's up to me once again to read you the names of candidates for members of the government. This is, in turn: Deputy Prime Minister - Bozidar Djelic, Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Vuk Jeremic, Ministry of Defence - Dragan Šutanovic, Ministry of Interior - Dragan Jočić, Ministry of Finance - Mirko Cvetković, Ministry of Justice - Dušan Petrović, Ministry of State Administration and Local Government - Milan Marković, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management - Slobodan Milosavljevic, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development - Mladjan Dinkić, Ministry of Mining and Energy - Aleksandar Popović, Ministry of Infrastructure - Velimir Ilic, Ministry of Telecommunications and Informatic Society - Aleksandra Sculjanić, Ministry of Trade and Service - Predrag Bubalo, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - Rasim Ljajic, Ministry of Science - Ana Peškan, Ministry of Environment - Saša Dragin, Ministry of Education - Ministry of Education of Education and Information - Ministry of Education of Education of Education and Culture, Ministry of the Ministry of Culture of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Kosovo. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1225	I thank Mr Vojislav Kostunica. You've heard the program and the proposal of the government's composition that Mr. Kostunica presented, you've got the materials. I'm taking a break until 6:45. The work of the Assembly continues at 18.45 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 18.50]] Please continue your work. Don't make me apply the Rules of Procedure now in the end, to show the government how it has to be done. I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. I also remind you of an agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups that we will complete the whole business within the deadline, i.e. Five to 12. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 191 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1227	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Kostunica, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates for ministers in the new government, I will introduce you to the positions of the Liberal Democratic Party, which you should pay attention to, because I am sure that everything that has marked political developments in the country over the last three months, especially what has marked them in the last seven parliamentary days, has completely transformed that one party position into a much broader opinion shared by people, regardless of whether LDP members, LDP voters or citizens who are far less interested in politics than any of those personal, life priorities. I want, at first, to tell you that it is important for Serbia to get the government as soon as possible and that this Parliament has done everything possible to do so. But at the same time, I want to tell you that we do not support the policy that you, Mr Kostunica, have promoted in your exposé and that we disagree with the idea that it is important for Serbia to get the government, regardless of the objectives of that government and the ways in which it will achieve it. I think as a candidate for the prime minister, you were obliged to answer our question -- whether everything we had lived through as MPs, as citizens of this country, had to be as dramatic as it was. Did the new parliamentary majority draw any conclusions from that? Are these conclusions, if any, part of this exposé or not? We, as a Liberal Democratic Party, have promoted a completely different political concept, but as MPs representing the interests of the citizens of this country, we must have the strength to open up the possibility of undisputed targets reaching different paths. The priorities you defined during your exhibition are the priorities mentioned in your previous exposé in February 2004: both Kosovo, and European integration, and The Hague, and the construction of the rule of law, the fight against corruption, the fight against crime. The fact that even in your current exposé mentions the same priorities and no new ones speak about the weight of the problems our society faces, but also about the ineffectiveness of your current government to solve these problems. What I intend to do, before defining the policy that is needed for Serbia and which I want to believe that you have the strength to accept it, is to point to three basic principles that are a prerequisite for any agreement on working together to solve these difficult problems, because I am sure that no one in this country believes in itself, within its own party, that has enough abilities and strength to deal with this dramatic legacy, which takes away our right to our society for a normal future. In order for the government to have the strength to solve these problems, it must be democratic, it must be European and it must be reformal, and your government, Mr Kostunica, is neither democratic nor European nor reformal. It is not democratic because you are today's prime minister, contrary to the will of the citizens shown in the January 21st elections. You're reading to us today because your new coalition partners gave in to blackmail. Parliament will measure the damage of giving in to your blackmail and the damage Serbia would face because of the complete collapse of the order you have exposed us to in the last seven days, and that takes away your right to say to your government that it is democratic. If your government is democratic, how could it be asked to control the secret police? In the democratic government, the issue has been resolved by laws and on this issue, and the same attitude is given to each minister and every party forming the government. If your government is democratic, how is it different from the previous government? The previous government also rested on identical political priorities, which you yourself have identified, with different political support, which is not available today, because, allegedly, there is a democratic and non-democratic bloc in Serbia, which is that there are parties to the new regime and parties to the old regime, which is the problem because you have to take the oath before the Socialist Party of Serbia vice president, and it was not a problem when you asked for the same SPS in 2004, because without it you couldn't come to power. In order for your government to be European, it must have the strength to accept European values, and you have talked so little about them in your exposé. In order for your government to be European, it must understand why it is important for Serbia to face the past, which is why civil reconciliation is important for Serbia, which is why a European system of values is important for Serbia, to which we had no right during your period of power. In order for the government to be reformal, it must show strength for change, and your exposé is the exposé of political continuity, not only with what you did in the previous term, but also with the policy that led you to become the president of our government in February 2004. In the campaign that preceded your election, you insisted on only one priority, which was the condition of all conditions - discontinuity with Zoran Djindjic's policy. We said it was a continuity with Slobodan Milosevic's policy. The results of your three-year work show the extent to which we were right and to which you were right. If we are talking about Kosovo, not taking away your right to an authentic relationship with this problem, we cannot view Kosovo as the cause of the situation in which Serbia is today, but as a consequence, and we have not heard a word about these consequences. Yesterday we heard a story about Montenegrin separatists, today about Albanian separatists, but we didn't see an account deposited for one prime minister's failure. Your goals in the previous term were to preserve the state union, and it no longer exists, to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, and you have introduced us here to the only real scenario of what we can ignore, but we cannot prevent it. Your previous government's priority was European integration, and we've been suspended for a year in the process, then, co-operation with The Hague, but two-way, adoption of the Constitution and state reform. You did it, but in a scandalous way, in a procedure where citizens voted more than they had the right to discuss the Constitution. However, your government deserves a chance, because it's the only possible thing right now. We're ready, as incredible as it seems, to help you, but we're not ready to change our policies. This policy obliges us at this time to say that your programme of resolving Kosovo's problem is wrong and doomed to failure. This policy obliges us to tell you that at least in your exposé you spoke of The Hague, and The Hague is the essence of the transformation of our society. Without determining political responsibility for the crimes committed during the 1990s, for crimes for which concrete persons are accused, Serbia cannot be transformed, and the determination of that responsibility involves sanctioning. We insist on effective co-operation with The Hague tribunal, but at the same time, and on something that can already be done during this debate. If you expect us to believe that in the next hundred days you will do what you haven't done in the past three years, then be so brave and take the first big step, a step that you haven't had the strength to do so far, and say that General Mladic is not a Serbian hero, say that your government may not have been able to arrest him by now, but has the determination to tell Serbia what the weight of the work is for which The Hague is looking for him. Stop seeing co-operation with The Hague tribunal as the whim of one person - Carla del Ponte, as a conspiracy by the European Union and the United States. Start looking at The Hague as a consequence of our incompetence and ineffectiveness, because our children are moving the streets with war criminals, whom your government has shown so much sympathy for. If we talk about co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which is a prerequisite for our European integration, we are interested, as LDP MPs, as your prime minister's position on the declaration that we want this parliament to adopt, in which Serbia would not only distance itself from the genocide carried out in Srebrenica but, by taking responsibility from which Serbia cannot escape, allow our children to live happier than we do today. I think you're dealing with politics for that purpose, or maybe I'm wrong. If we're talking about fighting corruption and crime, you mentioned mobs. I believe you meant the bankruptcy, roadside, customs, educational, sports mafia. I ask you how did you manage to get to all these mafias, and to skip the political mafia, and is there anyone in the political system of our society a barrier to dealing with this job, which is a prerequisite for criminality in Serbia? Instead, you took another path, you identified the fight against crime with the fight against all those who defended our democracy during a period of emergency, protected Serbian society from a coup, which is why today, the perpetrators of the assassination of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, are being tried in the Special Court. You have replaced the fight against crime by the President of the Supreme Court, the fight against the republican prosecutor, the fight against the President of the District Court, the fight against the district attorney, the fight against the chief of public security at the police and the city police chief, the 700 people in the police, the dozens and hundreds of people in the prosecution and the judiciary, the special prosecutor, the three prosecutors in the case against the assassins of Zoran Djindjic, bringing the Special Court into a situation in which the victim, not the executioner, and the criminal. You fought bad crime, Mr. Kostunica. The prerequisite for fighting corruption is to create what your political Light motive is, to create a rule of law. As you did in your previous term, you didn't tell us anything about it. Instead of the rule of law, we got a party state. From an unfinished democratic system, we are returned to feudal, but without a chance to speak rightly today about creating a modern democracy, a civil society, with the fear that we will go from feudal to lower level. You didn't mention the stock market, but you were talking about Russia. You didn't mention the market, but you were talking about social policy, with the ambition of the prime minister who thinks he's sharing charity on behalf of the country that previously ruined it. It's not social policy. You've managed to say something that's amazing -- an independent housing unit -- that's, I guess, a different name for the apartment, I noticed in your exposé. In this country, if you insist on your policy, we will no longer have housing problems, because we live in a society where 90 percent of young people no longer see any chance, not because the problems are difficult, but because they are being overcome, which is being pushed into the sand, which is what we have a government that doesn't offer a vision, which doesn't interfere with society anymore, that we have a cabinet that will consume our country's energy, as was the case in the last three years. In your exposé, you showed what your political priority is -- preserving the current order. With who? Anyone who wants to agree to something like that? In what way? Through slavery to collective prejudice instead of collective interests, prejudices that what is bad in this country is responsible for someone else and not ourselves, prejudices that we are hostages to the dark politics of the EU and the United States, prejudices that Russia will solve our problems, and neither is the other. The problems of this country can only be solved by those who live in it by agreeing on a goal that must be achieved, and then doing its best to reach that goal as quickly as possible. You didn't mention deadlines. In what time do you think you can end your co-operation with The Hague tribunal and in what way? In what time do you think you can end the fight against crime and corruption, with what results? How much longer will we insist on the policy you are talking about in the process of resolving Kosovo's final status and at what cost? Parliament has the right to know that before it becomes known that it is giving or denying support to your government. I would like to tell my friends from the Democratic Party that they have made a Liberal Democratic Party -- in a space that the Democratic Party has left, not because we wanted to do any damage to the DS, but because we were convinced that it was necessary for our society. In the past months, we've supported you more than you've done yourself. We did the same thing for the past week during the debate. We'll cooperate with you, but I think the political choice you've made is far from the reasoning we've heard. The DS and DSS coalition is unnatural and it cannot be justified by higher state interests, because there is no state in what we are offered today, but there is a expressed interest and a lot of political weaknesses. Unfortunately, they have become your traits. We wanted elections as an opportunity in which we would allow citizens to make known what they did not say during the January elections. We do not think that in a democratic society elections can be a problem, but if priorities are different, then there must be room for compromise, and that space is not open to us. That is why we insist on a completely different attitude towards the new cabinet, expecting the Democratic Party to understand that this is an expression of our opposition to a policy that becomes an integral part of it, not an opposition to the Democratic Party or its voters. As far as you are concerned, Mr Kostunica, as incredible as this may seem, you will always be able to count on the support of the LDP in a situation where you seek support for changing your government's political course, regardless of whether we are talking about Kosovo, The Hague, European integration, whether we are talking about fighting corruption and crime. At the same time, I want to tell you that I will do my best to ensure that your mandate lasts as soon as possible, and we get the opportunity to come to power as quickly as possible and do those jobs that you as Prime Minister, or the president of the state, the biggest obstacle since October 2000 -- to face the country with Milosevic's legacy, sanction war criminals, establish political responsibility for a policy that has been achieved through war crimes, change policy towards Kosovo, we experience the Kosovo problem as our last chance to redefine our country and change our priorities. In the absence of active values, you offer us tradition. In the 21st century, our society needs a vision, not an interpretation, not an idea of the 19th century. Regardless of what may have been good and justifiable at the time, they have long been overcome. We need modernism and reform, not conservatism and status quo, which is, in fact, the basis of your policy and your future government. What I want to say is a message to the citizens of Serbia at the same time. This parliament will have the strength to offer an alternative to society at any time, regardless of their disagreements. We are convinced that we are doing so now, that we are offering an alternative to the incompetent government, the government of continuity, in discontinuity with Zoran Djindjic's policy, that we are offering an alternative to a government that, in the exposé of candidates for prime minister, does not mention education, a government that offers colchos instead of modern laws, usually the right, instead of respect and respect for institutions, the destruction of institutions. I expect you, Mr Kostunica, to show respect for the Assembly and, in your next address, say one simple thank you to every MP who has made it possible, despite everything you've done, for Serbia to get the government, and in such a way to win the opposition, which will do its best, at least when it comes to the Liberal Democratic Party, that your government will last much less than it has been the case with the previous and that our policy will receive the support it needs to change the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1228	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the Republic of Serbia is receiving a puppet government almost in the highest formation. Indeed, it sounds cynical, pronounced several days at the Public Service, which quoted the Prime Minister as saying that the parties that educate the government decided to put their mutual party differences and party interests aside and put state, nation and citizen interests above them. Your passovers are about the interests of the state, the nation and the citizens. You cannot put aside differences between yourselves when they concern Serbia's future. The Democratic Party of Serbia sees Serbia in one way, the Democratic Party of Serbia has so far represented itself as a party that sees Serbia in another way. I understand these little ones, rubbing their hands and looking forward to making arrangements to become ministers, some of them in order to avoid arrest and jail directly. You only made it in part, don't get too excited. The damage you have done to Serbia and to some of you has been caused by the biggest criminals in Serbia. You are telling us about the unacceptable independence of Kosovo and Metohija for the government and that this is clearly defined state policy. Well, what did you have to define? That's what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says. Anything that says in the Constitution, you didn't have to define it at all. You haven't agreed on Kosovo and Metohija for three months, have you? You had no right to make a deal about it. The attitude of all Serbian citizens is unique and is also the attitude of the National Assembly. Kosovo and Metohija are forever an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. No one doubted you'd say something like that here. Who knows which way, I'm interested in what's going to happen. Your story about Kosovo and Metohija is based on a certain belief here, which you know is incorrect and that the deception of the MPs, that large states, members of the Security Council, will take care of the UN Charter, of international law, of the state's right to its sovereignty and territorial integrity. At the same time, you inform us that some large states, members of the Security Council, have already submitted a motion for a resolution that is not respected. Define yourself, Mr. Prime Minister. Will America protect the sovereignty of an independent state recognised in the United Nations and give up the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, or will it continue to push the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija? Don't drag us in so the government can be chosen. It'll be a lot harder if that government goes down in a month or two than not to pick it today. You know very well that there will be individual recognition of Kosovo and Metohija by the countries on which you later base our policy. You're building our policy on relations with the United States, rather than relations with China and Russia. I accept that this is the position of this government, but what will happen when America declares Kosovo and Metohija independence? How is this cooperation going to look with the U.S.? We're going to the European Union. You base your entire potential on Serbian, everything that will happen to us in the future, on relations with the European Union, you even said that it is extremely expensive to translate the law, the legal achievements of the EU, and that a special institution or part of the government must form to translate the legal achievements of the EU, so that we can apply it. If the European Union says within a few days - Kosovo and Metohija is an independent state, are we going to build, are we going to spend further money to translate the EU's legal achievements into Serbian language, you said, and, of course, on the languages of the other Serbian citizens who live in it. The whole concept on which the government is based, first and second points, because they are absolutely connected, is unclear to me. You skipped to tell us if that's what you agreed on. It definitely and directly decides our fate. You know what's waiting for us and you've avoided telling us what's going to happen to the government if what's waiting for us comes along. We are awaiting recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. With how many cynicisms you wrote not to worry Kosovo and Metohija citizens, Serbia will always consider Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia. And that gives them security? Do you think they're more afraid of whether the government will admit that it's not part of Serbia, or whether the Shiparis are going to kick their foot in the door and fly into houses, or whether they're going to run to the representatives of the international forces to save them, to put them in a car that will leave their homes and the Albanians start their houses? They haven't come back yet, here, for three years. The Albanians don't have to kill anyone, so they don't have any convictions, they'll just start houses, and we don't have any houses here, in the territory outside Kosovo and Metohija, places where people will sleep, we'll just worry about what we'll do with the houses in Kosovo and Metohija. What in the event of Kosovo and Metohija declaring independence and if Serbia says, "We do not accept it, it is unacceptable for us"? You accepted the termology of the President of the Republic. We, he says, are inadmissible from Kosovo and Metohija. It's unacceptable to me, too, so when a woman cooks it, I eat. It's like a man in his life is doing everything that's acceptable. Then in two months, you'll say, "Yes, it was unacceptable to me, but now we have to live like that." What do you expect from a government like this -- one-of-a-kind attitudes, one-of-a-kind opinions, a clear and firm view of what we're going to do next? No, you wrapped everything in spider and fog. Not only for the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, you wrapped the whole of Serbia, even, I think, for your mentors from the West, you wrapped it in a spider and in the fog of this government and its interests. You can tell America directly: "Yes, we only worry about relations with you and that we reject your proposal for independence of Kosovo and Metohija"? You're the government! You have a clear view of the Democratic Party of Serbia that any recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence by the European Union will be a complete obstacle to co-operation with the EU. Two days ago, it was said by the head of the DSS Parliamentary Group. I didn't hear a Democratic Party representative say so. That will never be said by the DS representative, nor will the members of the DS government accept that the government interrupts talks with the European Union, suspend the fulfilment of all conditions, suspend the law if the EU insists and accepts Kosovo and Metohija's independence. What will happen that day, Mr. President? Or do you think we'll be too obsessed with the fate of the unfortunates in Kosovo and Metohija and we won't think of asking you what you're doing? I don't base my relationship with the government just on the relationship between Kosovo and Metohija. All I know is that it's the most painful, the hardest and waiting for us yesterday. After all, you already have the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, probably delayed until you form a government. That's what I'm convinced of. I am convinced that they were waiting for you to form a government, and, of course, to return the value of stock on the stock market, the value of the euro, which we still had as a tragic consequence of the election of radicals for the president of the assembly. To thank you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, for accepting the presidency when the DOS takes an oath before you, because I appreciate you, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, as a great builder and as a friend of Slobodan Milosevic, not only ideologically, but also as a personal friend, so I really think of you as a man of the old regime, from the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1230	Thank you, Mr. Tomislav. We are doing all of this in the interests of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1231	I would swear an oath before you, and for those who would drive you to the asylum, I don't know what made them. The Hague? It is not co-operation with The Hague to arrest Ratko Mladic. It can be said by Carla del Ponte, it can be told by someone who comes here to convince you that you haven't yet earned that crumb you've been given. Co-operation with The Hague is a matter of relations with our citizens in The Hague, with the basic postulate of presummation of innocence. They're not war criminals there. When convicted, then you can say they're war criminals, and there are some of us who think they are, and for some of them we don't think they are. You have an ambassador in the Netherlands who says that people who are detained in The Hague are just garbage and smell. He forgets the constitutional obligation to protect Serbian citizens wherever they are, especially when they are on the territory of the country where he represents Serbia. So angry, greasy, drunk, the ambassador says, "It's not for me, it's not for me, it's not for me." I understand that someone in the assembly can also say not to be warned by the chairman, but to be told by a representative of the government?- I'm sorry. Did you see the Bulgarians die for two women, who deserve a high sentence, of course, because they knew where they were dealing with dangerous business, knew what kind of punishment they were facing, but Bulgaria took to its feet to save the obvious criminals, absolutely, the obvious criminals, because they were her citizens. You're saying you want to end the co-operation with The Hague as soon as possible. Let's see how. The Democratic Party has been in power since 2001, the Democratic Party of Serbia since 2004, and the DS has the president of the Republic for the time being. What are the new forces that will arrest Mladic and Karadzic? Look at you, all the same people. Well done to the ladies, but unfortunately, some of them too, I'm going to have to talk about today. I've been seeing you men, who are supposed to get your ass kicked and arrested, for seven years now. Where's your hero breasts for seven years? Or will the arrested young man suddenly appear?- I'm sorry. New security service organisation, new security co-ordinator and, hours of work, arrested Ratko Mladic? I warn you, as you treat the people of The Hague, so we will treat some of you who will be in prison when we are in power. You watch now. It's all going to be by the system of equality. Continued fight against organised crime and every form of corruption? This is ridiculous. Seven years of fighting organized crime and corruption. I guess you rooted it out: three pumpers, four ramps, three customs officers. Where's that head of the road mob? The chief of the road mob hasn't been arrested, he's just changed his portfolio, he's cut his portfolio. That's what it looks like to you. Who can trust you when we don't have a Constitutional Court all the time? For a formal, two-and-a-half years, we had the Constitutional Court, in fact, never. All our demands, all our submissions ended up in a basket. The Constitutional Court has no deadlines, no obligation. It allows you to do whatever you want and you do whatever you want. When judges of the Constitutional Court are to be elected, you simply don't choose judges. For a year and a half, the President of the Republic does not propose judges of the Constitutional Court, does not fulfil the fundamental constitutional obligation. We still have a month to form the Constitutional Court. What's the point of the Constitutional Court? Where's your Cassation Court, which should be elected by five Constitutional Court judges in the general session? Where is the proposal from the President of the Republic of Parliament of 10, where is the proposal from the Assembly to the President of the Republic of 10 candidates for Judges of the Constitutional Court? Where's the Constitutional Court Act, which now has 15 judges? And the state works day by day. Where is the protection of human rights in Serbia? What court station? It's gone, the Democrats are in power. Whoever wants to address Strasbourg cannot, has not exhausted all the possibilities of defending his rights in the territory of the country he lives in. And who gives him to exhaust them, when he doesn't have constitutional judicial protection. It's the easiest way to run the country. That's what you've done with a state of emergency. When I read constitutional provisions on Kosovo and Metohija, if anyone declares independence, occupied territory, the whole of Serbia jumps on me. Today you, too, from the Democratic Party, who accused me of it, are signing the exposés of the Prime Minister in which you will say that it is occupied or forever our territory. Go, at least, to TV B92, and say, we impertinently accused that man three years ago. Three days ago, when I said there was another constitutional solution to overcoming the crisis, not this, because you would never have done it, you would have forced the max to the finish line and you would have said for another five days that radicals should be elected, you don't know what responsibility for the state, I said - the government could suggest introducing a state of emergency. Then why didn't he propose it? Because no declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija has arrived. To see what the situation will be like when independence of Kosovo and Metohija is declared. Is that going to be a regular state? I don't think so. Will the Prime Minister, by any chance, address the General Assembly for the introduction of the state of emergency? I don't know. In fact, I don't know what the Prime Minister will do anymore. I won't listen anymore, no matter what you do, no matter what you do, because you can't find the truth there. It's sad if you can't take a single word of it to trust the Prime Minister. Since then, when he says tomorrow will be the sun, I'll bring the umbrella. You have already informed us there will be a robbery of NIS, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia. That's why you met here. You haven't met to bring us anything good. I've been reading the composition of the ministries. I've never talked about ministers before. I think it's your responsibility. But there's really something going on here. The richest people in Serbia have enriched droughts since you were in power. Some of them are hiding their property. Some people aren't ashamed of their assets because they're in DOS. One minister worked in the economy - Predrag Bubalo. Did anyone else work in the economy? It's not. But in America and the West, you completed all courses that could have been completed. Bozidar Djelic hid even from his party comrades that he earned huge capital because he was a finance minister, a huge undeclared capital. You've earned, you're capable, the Duke of Finance, you tell it to the public: my fellow citizens, and this month another million in my pocket. But I'm an expert consultant. How come the banks in Serbia, I don't get it. I don't want to talk about foreign affairs. We haven't had any luck. We haven't had a foreign ministry in years. The Department of Defense will buy one 30,000 pairs of hulachopki. That was already promised by the president and said we would modernise with weapons and equipment in Serbia's military. I don't have a bad word for Mr. Jocic. I'm not afraid of the police, I'm not afraid of the police. I'm not afraid of the police. I'm not afraid of the police. I can only read to you what his fellow ministers said about him, in a request to vote the shift of Minister Jocic, who also signed Sutanovac, Milan Markovic, and Petrovic Dusan. It will be interesting how the minister of justice will prosecute the crimes of the interior minister. He has been charged with a drastically increased rate of crime in Serbia since he was the minister, for his relationship with the murder of Djindjic, who is shameful and contrary to the law, for the human rights policy on the principle of nepotism, remandism and selection based on political orientation, for the criminal past of Minister Jocic, for questioning the good international and religious relations in Serbia and for the significant threat of our country's reputation in the world, that he never gave a clear answer to the question of drug destruction, that the inadmissible ignoring of Minister Jocic towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which chose him to function. Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic. Do your colleagues know about Altis Consuling? For two companies at the same address? Do they know about your $400 stake in a company that's been measured for hundreds of millions of dinars for years? Did you report it somewhere, Mr. Milosavlevich? Should I mention further? I'm just interested, I promised, I'm interested in when Tomica Milosavljevic will resign? I guess that'd be his fourth in a row. She's a poor government that chooses the minister who resigned for the fourth time in a row. It seems to be the most honorable man in Serbia. He resigns because the government is no good. The government goes down, they get re-elected, and he's the minister again. Resign as the most honorable, the government falls, they are re-elected, and he is the minister again. I'm a little older man. We had a minister of faith. I think he was a minister of faith from Christ. That's how it counts. Well, so do you, Minister of Health. Thank you for that. What do you need that for? You're a regular doctor. What do you want me to call you that I don't know about? To call you from this pay phone, I will, I can't wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1232	Time, Mr. Nikolic. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1233	The minister without a portfolio escapes. For the Investment Plan, it will likely be a new arrangement for New Belgrade. Few are that building he built thanks to business, miracles, with the Democratic Party of Serbia personnel, a state-owned company. Of course, to ask the youth and sports minister, Snezana Samardzic-Markovic, what recommended her to this function? Is it that she worked for eight years at the Embassy of Norway, then several years at the Embassy of Serbia-Montenegro, or Yugoslavia, Norway, and hence directly for the assistant defence minister, the most important assistant defence minister. From there to the Minister for Youth and Sports. You know what, the Serbian Radical Party has one pilot, Captain Shakota Branko. I think he's already retired. When you're flying somewhere in Europe, ask who Captain Shakota Branko is. He only drives two types of planes. He knows all about how planes are driven, but he said -- you know what, don't make me drive a third guy, that's too much for a human brain. And, my dear lady, you walked from the end to the end of the government, you were created for all the resources in the government. If you're still capable of G17 plus, then I'm convinced that you won't be able to perform your function at all. But you are nothing to blame, gentlemen of the Ministers, is being proposed by the West, the one for which the Democratic Party of Serbia did not want to co-operate with the Democratic Party. What he did to you for a night or two, I don't know, but for your information, and appeal for national unity, appeal for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, will continue to help with the Serbian Radical Party. Whoever's asking you to do it. Just from now on, please go on state television, public service, which is the service of your two parties, so please contact me exclusively through the Public Service.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1234	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Nenad Canak answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1235	Thanks for the applause. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, we are gathered here to give the opportunity, once again, to the Serbian Government, in which I deeply do not believe. The reason for my infidelity is very simple. I respect people who have honor, who have cheeks, who have the strength to say what they think and do what they say. However, my happiness, which I have shared with you in the past days, due to the establishment of the parliamentary majority of the Serbian Radical Party -- the Democratic Party of Serbia, was short-lived. I simply believed that we would finally have those who stood up for the same things in the same front. However, no, my happiness lasted for a short time. All of a sudden we are now in a position to see Mr Tomislav Nikolic, elected at that night's marathon session, where I am the only one who has not voted for him, to see what it looks like when Serbia finally got sides and that we all know what matches are on the field of political scenes in Serbia, which are teams and that we know who the players are and what uniforms are wearing. Now, all of a sudden, we're in a position to get this kind of confusion and mixed team players back on the ground. That is why it was more than strange for me to have Mr Tomislav Nikolic elected to this post as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in an important and significant position, which, in case the president of the state is unable to perform his post, was the highest function in the country, which we had the opportunity to see accept, because Mr Vojislav Kostunica did the following. He asked Mr Tomislav Nikolic to accept it because he does not trust Boris Tadic and does not trust the Democratic Party because of their treasonous policy, because the Democratic Party will accept Kosovo's secession, independence and all that, and will have to disband the marriage from an account called the government of the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party and G 17 plus. Then this assembly, with its patriotic parliamentary majority, will be the main institution in the state, which will hold Serbia in one piece. Am I telling the truth, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: not enough. I'm sorry, you'll have to correct me. But I tried to stick to, as much as I could, facts and truths. Since I wasn't there for that conversation, I can't literally repeat it, but that's the point of what I wanted to say. An attempt by this assembly to have a parliamentary majority, with the government having some kind of a European accepted majority, is an attempt to sit on two chairs, among which only Serbia as a state can fail. And that's why the logical question is raised -- what honesty is in the creation of this government, what honesty is in the intention of this government to survive and exist, or should serve to satisfy the legal and constitutional deadlines somehow and, after that, when what needs to be shared, to sell out what needs to be sold out. I have already spoken on several occasions about the fact that the government no longer has to exist, so that the most dissipated by heart, not by interest, in a coalition with the Serbian Radical Party which, certainly, after such a betrayal by the Democratic Party of Serbia towards it, will never allow itself to do so again. Am I right? (approval) Thank you. Now, since we know that this is a situation where this country is located, I need to look back in a few words in the way this government is formed. The government has been formed in such a way that Serbia is widely divided by verticals, so that it can be divided in such a way that it does not become in a position of neither mutual control nor anything like that. It is in itself amazing that the most numerous party in the government does not have its mandate. Why is that? It's a matter of mutual agreement. But, personally, it seems to me to be something that is due to political agreements, not essential agreements on the government's plan and programme. Because the most numerous must also be responsible for implementing plans and programmes. They have to create it, they have to realize it, not give in under pressure. Because what have these pressures brought us? They brought us this to continue the continuity of that nyon-government government, which was marked by fires. It's like the government wasn't led by Dr Vojislav Kostunica, but by Nero himself, because the government started burning Hilandara, and it ends with arson in Central Prison. So, from Hilandar to prison, we were led by the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica, and that is exactly the path that this government will obviously continue, if this continues. The point is, it wasn't discovered who set Studio B on fire either, but something else was done. I'll introduce you to this document. May I have your attention, please? This is the Republic of Serbia, the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, KTR 434/07, since 3 May 2007. The Radio-Television Studio B sent the following letter: "In the course of last week, and under the auspices of your TV station, a show was broadcast in which Mr Nenad Canak participated as a guest. It is necessary that, within the meaning of Articles 3 and 4. The Law on the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia, this prosecution, with a call to the above mentioned number, as soon as you deliver the CD footage of the above mentioned emissions. District Attorney, Mr Zoran Pavlovic." So, it doesn't matter who set Studio B on fire, but it's important to see again what Nenad Canak said on that Study B. If this isn't a continuation of that, the type of brick tossing into the window of Vesna Pesic, if it's not a continuation of bombs on journalists' windows, if this isn't a continuation of bricks to the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, the Sandzak Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party, I apologize, absolutely, for all these failures and everything else. I'm asking a question, if they don't settle their relationship now, if we don't know who did what by now, how do we know something's going to happen from now on? Or is Mr. Dragan Jocic's survival in this place he's been to just so nothing can be revealed. I know you'll be working. You're already working on me. I know that. But I was just about to say, Mr. Jocic, let me be your biggest enemy, well, Serbia would be happy. May I be your greatest criminal, Serbia would be happy. May I be your greatest criminal, so Serbia would be happy. I didn't hurt an ant, I didn't break a trafic. I didn't do anything, Mr. Jocic. Why me? Why does Studio B have to put up with this? Somebody explain it to me. Next, I don't doubt you. Have you noticed, distinguished citizens of Serbia, the honourable MPs, that everything that has been happening lately is a clear indicator, only needs to be seen in the youth. This youth best shows us what to do and youth heroes right now are young tennis players and tennis players who are winning medals and medals around the world for this common state of Serbia. But do you know what makes tennis different than what's going on here? Because tennis rules apply everywhere in the world, which is a tennis game that is recognised everywhere in the world. What's being admitted here is just a racket. That's exactly what I wanted to draw your attention to. Well, I guess there are some other rules, ladies and gentlemen, except for the exclusive creative use of rackets in getting personal benefits. That's what I wanted to ask you. I wanted to repeat the question already raised behind this speaker - what will happen when Kosovo and Metohija are declared an independent state? What happens when 12 members of the Security Council stand for it? Then what will it be, fog and spiders, we won't accept anything? We'll say - we don't admit it. It's, you know, for kids up to three years old, to cover themselves over their heads with a pillow, because they're afraid of the dark. Then we will be in a position to implement everything outside of us, and here all the citizens had the opportunity, just a few moments ago, to see that, when he read Mr. Vojislav Kostunica's list of governments, then every party touched on its own minister and there was no one who touched the program. I guess it's because this party doesn't have a program, because there are only ministers who need to do the party's will. If that's the case, then I ask you, is there any hope for this country? Look who's against it. It is the LDP, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and other minorities, the SRS, the SPS, more than the opposition, less than the bloc. It is quite clear that such a government will hardly end its mandate because, simply when certain things are on the table, when all this is happening now in the country on the table, when we know that they will ask all of us, of someone patriotism, and of someone opening up to Europe, of someone this or that, I wonder if we will have the moral right to give hands. I don't think so. We need to look ourselves in the eye, stand in the field, share teams, go to the polls and see who's on which side, acknowledge victory and move on, because all that's going on now is going on only one further nightmare and further abandoning this country by its youngest and most prospective residents. Once we, Dr Vojislave Kostunica, voted for you, once Zoran Petakov of Novi Sad sat on his hand to numb his hand when he voted for you, not to be bitten by his conscience. We came into a position once that we should think very carefully about what happened to us. We did it once, and we won't do it anymore. I'm not saying that in this assembly, and in all of this, I mean. And in this pledoa, Mr. Vojislav Kostunica is not one word spoken of by Vojvodina, not a word of it, for my God, Serbia has only one autonomous province, which is Kosovo. About Kosovo, we should all think now that we would not look at other things that have nothing to do with Kosovo, which are privatisations, willfulness, corruption, crime and all that has characterized so far the work of the Serbian Parliament and government in which the party had a majority. Now I ask you, do we have the right to agree to this? My friend, Dr. Vladan Batic, can say far more about it, he's a lawyer, I'm just an economist, but I know something else. This is a government where former Minister of Local Self-Government Zoran Loncar now becomes Minister of Education, Education?- I'm sorry. How can a minister of enlightenment be someone who can't read, who can't read, and who can't read because we gave it in writing that the directors of public enterprises were elected in Novi Sad by the same committees who had not been verified, and his task was to fight it. Of course it wasn't there. Now he's supposed to be Minister of Education. Not to say, you'll say I'm an autonomous, that I've noticed that out of 25 ministers there are three from Vojvodina, but well, let's put that aside. I ask you, do you really think that Serbia in this government can see the future? I don't believe that deeply. I would end up with words -- once I was in a situation to read the parole -- "Who can look you in the eye," now look for who can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1236	Thank you, Mr. Chank. Mr Batić - replica, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1237	Ladies and gentlemen, give the man power to see what he's like, it's an old folk facility that can very well apply to a candidate for Prime Minister. The exposure we got at the beginning of the session is a colorful lie. Here's the real pledoies and the real exposés -- power at all costs, macarovelism without borders. I remember a time when the current prime minister and his party, whose member I was then, but we were in deep opposition, for some party leaders of the present coalition, claimed to be Islamic fundamentalists, but when it comes to power -- nothing bothers us, we can go with everyone. I'm afraid it's political xenophobia, political introvertity, and it doesn't look good. I remind you of something else, the candidate for the prime minister is one of the top pamphlet creators that Zoran Djindjic is connected to the Surcin clan, to the Zemun clan, and we know how it ended. If it hadn't ended that way, he wouldn't have been a prime minister today. The constitution, which is said to be a great achievement, has been brought in a way that has not been discussed in Parliament. It is the only constitution in the world that has not been discussed in Parliament. Then came that famous two-day vote, not only did those who rushed to the bus vote vote. The convicts have been promised that amnesty, reduced sentences will be brought. None of it was. We had then, at last, elections, then four months of citizen deception, distractions. In the end, it turned out to be a crucial BIA. It's either Serbia, or BIA, and it's decided by the BIA. Does the BIA rule this country, do security services, secret services still rule this country today? Is it dating back to that time, since 6 October, when, despite the demands of all DOS leaders, neither Pavkovic nor Rade Markovic, anyone? Is that a continuation of that agony and that policy? I don't mean to be rude, but for what's been said about Serbia, that it's a legally arranged state, I'm not going to say it's stupid, but it's not correct, because it's not true. Imagine saying that for a state where there is no constitutional court, in which there is no state prosecutor, in which you have no district attorney in the capital, in which the judiciary functions completely counter-constitutional, because the second-degree court is an appeal court. He was supposed to start working on January 1st. There was no assembly to extend that deadline. There was no constitutional court to bring a temporary measure, and then we say - a legally regulated state. In the end, tonight you will take an oath before the vice president of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I don't want to say anything ugly and respect Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and for the terms of office, that's no problem. He was also in power for the past three years with the help of the SPS. I'm surprised at my friends from the Democratic Party, they won't mind. I am surprised, too, to some of my colleagues from the government of Zoran Djindjic that they will sit in this government and report in their biography that they were ministers in the government of Zoran Djindjic and in the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It's incompatible, and it never ends well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1238	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Mr. Ivica Dacic, as head of the Parliament Group. At the same time, I would like to inform you that 27 MPs, whose order is here, have arrived before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1239	Ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected candidates for functions in the government of the Republic of Serbia, those who wrote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I suppose, could not imagine that this three-month deadline for the government of the Republic of Serbia is short to agree, but in two days, since Tuesday, after the election of Tomislav Nikolic to the president of the Assembly, by Thursday or Friday, they have made an express agreement on the formation of the government. Three months couldn't agree to make a deal in two or three days. I want to say fully responsiblely, the one who brought you together will soon separate you, when he proposes an independent Kosovo and Metohija, which you will not agree to, at least part of those who sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Here is a fundamental question -- can the parties that make up this government have a common policy? I'm convinced I can't. I am convinced that on each point of these five principles presented by the mandater, Mr Vojislav Kostunica, these parties have different views. European integration. I am an MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Milos Aligrudic, as head of our delegation, as head of the Democratic Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Club, said that if the European Union supports Kosovo's independence and the DSS Metohija will not be to join Europe. Is this opinion shared by the Democratic Party, does this opinion share G17 plus, to whom the European Union is sometimes more important than some national and state interests? After all, they have also brought down this government of the Republic of Serbia because they have suspended negotiations with the European Union. I'm just asking you, Mr. Dinkic, what time do you have for Kostunica to arrest Ratko Mladic and when will you leave this government? Is it 100 days, 200 days, or do I not know how many days to arrest Ratko Mladic? But since he's supposed to be arrested by those who have looked at him for freedom all these years, with whom he's been at football games, in football bars, in markets, in pubs, protected by the Army, as you say, SRJ, and your people have been involved in the control of that army, how are you going to arrest him now? Mr Kostunica said in an exposé that the European integration process is directly linked to the third principle of the rule of politics, which is a successful and comprehensive end to co-operation with The Hague tribunal. How? Extradition? Mr. Kostunica, your government's policy so far has been against extradition. You criticised the Democratic Party for handing over Sljivancan and other UN tribunals with bags on their heads. Does this sentence of yours mean that Ratko Mladic or anyone else will be handed over violently to The Hague, or will you go to voluntary surrenders? What do other partners think in this government? On the privatisation of public enterprises, do you have an agreement on that? As I understand it, the Democratic Party, which belongs to the Socialist International, is opposed to privatising public enterprises. At least that's what the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic said during a consultation with the SPS on the formation of the government. Well, then how are you going to co-operate with the G17 plus, who sought ultimately, because the IMF is asking to extend the contract with them, privatization of NIS? Well, the previous government of Vojislav Kostunica almost fell because of it. That is why, indeed, the fundamental question -- what can be the policy of this government, what will be the government's response to Kosovo and Metohija's independence, to attempts at Kosovo and Metohija's independence? The Mandator said what Russia thinks about it. The DS MPs in this House, in the past few days, when they thought you would go with radicals and socialists, have not expressed much praise about that country that you are praising today, sir, future or present, Prime Minister, anyway. They spoke a variety of funny phrases about Russia and its support for Serbia. And why, Mr. Prime Minister, didn't you say what the United States think about Kosovo and Metohija, what does the EU think about that, what Germany thinks about that, what about your friends who brought you together? So, how will you behave when they propose independence for Kosovo and Metohija and vote for it in the Security Council? How will you behave when they bilaterally recognise Kosovo and Metohija? Will you break up with them diplomatic relations? Do you agree with the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Of course you don't, and that's why I think the fundamental question here is whether the BIA or the CIA won your negotiations, or some European security service. Mr Aligrudic and other DSS MPs quoted Solana as saying in a debate over Parliament's president a dozen times that Tadic wants to control security services. What changed in your negotiations until today? Doesn't Tadic control security or Solana controls all of you? And in the meantime, he's got you in line and he's made sense that you have to build this government. Or did you choose Tom Nikolic to intimidate both the Democratic Party and the European Union in order to pressure them to build the Government of the Republic of Serbia? If you want so much good international relations, why don't you, ladies and gentlemen, still have ambassadors in Russia and the UK? So, when are you gonna send them? How long does it take you to send an ambassador to Russia? Come on, you don't like Russia, but you don't seem to like Britain either. These are two permanent members of the Security Council. You there today, at a time when the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is resolved, you do not have an ambassador. It's a top-notch irresponsibility to state and national interests. So, as long as that's how it's gonna be, will you send them back? I'm surprised you even formed a government before you declared Kosovo and Metohija independence. Maybe it'd be easier if it was later, so it looks like no one's responsible for it. After all, the debate on Tomislav Nikolic's election for Parliament's president was not at all a debate on Tomislav Nikolic, it was a discussion between the DS and the DSS. I must say, I enjoyed that debate. You've said such good words about each other that, indeed, as president of one opposition party, I simply cannot find a stronger expression to attack you more than you've attacked each other. For one, these others were traitors, so you mentioned to Solana, so you mentioned Guzenbauer, Leon Koin, who resigned because of this Democratic Party policy, etc., and these others attacked Kostunica because he was making alliances with radicals, socialists, which is returning, allegedly, to Serbia in the past, etc. What happened now? So, you're not good at Kostunica when he won't come with you, and when he wants to go with you, then he's acceptable to the prime minister?- I'm sorry. Likewise, the Democratic Party, you are not acceptable when you do not agree to all their conditions and then you are traitors, and when you agree, it is in the national and state interest. I think you hate each other more than you seem to like power right now, but that's your problem. I'm not going to quote what you said about each other five days ago, I'm not going to quote what the Prime Minister here said when he was elected Prime Minister in 2004. He said the situation, which was in 2004, after the Democratic Party government, was worse than what we had in 2001, because you were in power for three years and because it takes real state-of-the-art and responsible approach to problems. Mr. President, I guess that applies to your Deputy Prime Minister, Bozidar Djelic, Minister Milosavljevic, I don't know who else was in the government, I can't remember now. Vojislav Kostunica, too. The best example of a state that fails without laws, without institutions, is what we found a few months ago, December 28th. All this desolation of institutions, this void of laws, this general lawlessness, this contempt of judicial decisions, any decisions to be made, the Constitutional Court, the regular courts and everything else. About production. According to the production problem, the best shows what we found in the December 28th elections and the national court on the production of any type of production and devastation in the production left behind by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose current vice-president was minister in the government that left the waste in 2001. Believe that foreign investors can no longer be intimidated by this wasteland that you have left behind, institutions that are not there, laws that are not there, judicial decisions that are not respected. You're right, Mr. Kostunica, you were right. I don't know if you're right now. Velimir Ilic then said, "When I listen to the Democrats, my intestines turn around. You're talking nonsense here, listening to people who still exercise power and criticise someone who hasn't exercised power in a minute. I guess Serbia does. You've ruined all this. "I'm sorry, I may not be able to speak as theatrely as Mr. Ilic, but, about, I'm trying to figure out how it was in 2004. "You're telling me about the SPS. Yes, they did what they did and how they did it, but you were worse. Here, now you've been worse than them. We've seen something worse than that." Velimir Ilic, whom you will now choose as new minister. Velimir Ilic tells the president of the Democratic Party, now the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic: "If you have now managed to organise the Army as a professor of psychology, it is an honor. You're that superman. What are you talking about? You're a girl for everyone. Mr. Tadic, I haven't heard that in any serious parliament, the army minister is sitting here like some grandmother, Simana, and she's replicating. "The chairman of the warning, but you continue - "The Minister of the Army must be a man, Mr. Tadic, to be a soldier, not to sit there like a bird of a feather. I think many generals are ashamed to see you. "This Mr. Tadic is now the president of the Republic, who will line up that army and those generals and who will shake those hooligans we talked about. At the very end, Zeljko Ivanji from G17 Plus, who will be an MP when Mladjan Dinkic is no longer an MP, says "The old government is running out of time at any moment. There were no ministers representing the people, representing the interests of the people's will. There were ministers who were proven to have been involved in criminal activities and corruption. The Court of Justice, as an element of government and government, the third element, gives its answer. "You crashed each other in 2001, 2003, 2004, etc. You've been introducing a state of emergency, in which you've almost arrested the current prime minister. G17 plus did everything to bring down that government. Mr Dinkic had an entire series of affairs that he started from the then government. Besides, they're famous for the duel between Dinkic and Djelic. I think they're going to cooperate perfectly in this government now. Mr. Dinkic, how will you cooperate with those who brutally removed you from the seat of the governor of the National Bank and from Bodrum voted Kori Udovicki? Velimir Ilic and Djilas, among them, sits Aleksandar Popovic, likely not to kill each other. But all right, there's gonna be a touch point. Here, now they're sitting next to each other. Please, just without the hooligans over your ears, that's not popular. The Democratic Party left parliament in the past term because of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Is that true, comrades and fellow Democrats? Mr. Kostunica, your party boycotted the presidential election because of DS policy back then. We boycotted the last presidential elections, which were attended by Micunovic and Tomislav Nikolic. Anyway, I'm sure this government doesn't have any common policy. Not because none of you have your own politics, but because these policies are uncompromising. We will support everything proposed in the national and state interest, any resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, a declaration, but, Mr Kostunica, for each of your resolutions or declarations, you will request the votes of the SPS and the SRS. These coalition partners of yours will not vote for what you think of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, I also express my joy that there are some among the candidates who have been on our election list in due time. Just a moment to find out. I am glad that Vojislav Brajovic, who was in our campaign when we had a common list - SPS-JUL and New Democracy. You were a member of New Democracy, don't be ashamed when she was in our government. Dusan Mihajlovic was vice president of both our governments and yours, so even now he would have been if you had called him. I'm sorry, I've been brought up with your "Signed," but to let you know that sometimes there's a "Back Off". If I was wrong, I apologize to you, but when we had the promotion of New Democracy, you were. I guess I'll trust my own eyes more than you do, but that doesn't matter. It's no shame to be a member of New Democracy. It's a respectable party. What's the shame? What Mr. Nikolic was talking about. Indeed, Mrs. Snow White Samardzic-Markovic I do not know. I'm just reading the biography. She is a graduate professor of Yugoslav and world literature, but has served as assistant defence policy minister, whose responsibility was strategic planning from 2005 to 2007. What strategically are you planning, and what are your strategic planning qualifications, so that you can move now to strategically plan youth and sport? It's a G17 plus thing, I'm not getting into their decisions. We will vote against this government. I am sure, since Mr Milutin Mrkonjic is chairing this session, that this government of the Republic of Serbia will leave before the deadline. Also, I'm glad this government is going to take an oath to Milutin Mrkonjic, because if Batic and the rest of you were asked who you are in this government, some of us, we'd be hung, shot, lustrated, but it's not exactly what you think it looks like. Get used to there being no division of one or other blocks in Serbia. Serbia is one and only indivisible. I want Serbia all the best, even with your government, except I think you'll see that the more you work against each other and there's no need for us to fight you a lot. You're going to bring yourself down, and you're going to bring yourself down as soon as possible. If this seems to be the beginning, I warn you, you know, this isn't your beginning, this is your beginning of the end, because you connect incompatible. I want all the best to Serbia and God help us with you in government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1240	Is there anyone else from the president? Please, which member of the Rules of Procedure? Article 101, here you go. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1241	I'm sorry that Mr. Vladan Batic left the gym because he respected the Prime Minister here that he had an Islamic fundamentalist in his former composition, with Vladan Batic coming on his knees to beg to join the coalition with him, to cross the censorship. That's the first one. There's Esad Judgjevic. Mr Batic was a DOS member when he came to Novi Pazar. There's Ceda Jovanovic, there's still a lot of DOS ministers. The late Zoran Djindjic, on the one hand, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, on the other hand, sign an agreement to support Vojislav Kostunica as SRJ president, if you remember correctly. Mr Batic then asked the same thing on behalf of DOS. As for the former regime's struggles and so forth, remember the last speech of the former president, not to mention him now, and who he mentioned in his latest television speech -- Zoran Djindjic and Sulejman Ugljanin. Take that tape and take a look. It's rude of him to talk about that man when he's not there. Also, I want to remind him to take footage of regional television from Novi Pazar and to see himself give a statement, along with the president of the Novi Pazar municipality, that they are close, that they need a common coalition to have, that he cannot forget what he has given in the fight for the collapse of the former regime and thank him for that. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1242	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Balint Pastor, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, SVM, the Sandzak List, the Roma Union of Serbia and the Albanian Coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1243	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Kostunica, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians has been saying since January 21st that it is interested in forming a stable, efficient, pro-European and democratic government and that we are in favour of the solution agreed by the three largest democratic parliamentary parties regarding the new government and the president of the National Assembly. This attitude hasn't changed. Of course, we look forward to the government being formed by the largest democratic parties by the end of the constitutional deadline. We look forward to it, because citizens will not be harassed by new elections and because Parliament will start working after more than half a year. I also have to show my suspicions and the skepticism that after what has happened in the past days, after all those mutual accusations and insults we've heard, not only us MPs, but also citizens, governments of DSS, DSS and G17 Plus will be stable and efficient. Also, after a vote a week ago, we must show suspicion that the new government will be pro-European and democratic. On Wednesday, because of this fact, the president of the SVM proposed to all parliamentary parties who did not vote for the election of the National Assembly president, as well as the Serbian Renewal Movement and the non-parliamentary parties of the duchy Hungarians, that we should immediately start a dialogue on the creation of a common front of those parties that, in the parliamentary debates of the previous days and nights, have shown that they still see the five-octobaric goals as their goals. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians expressed its will Wednesday to organise an initial meeting of the pro-European bloc. DS and G17 Plus decided, however, to form a government with the DSS. New, early elections are no longer a real option. The Vojvodina Hungarians remain hoping that DS and G17 Plus have made the right decision. The hope remains that the new government will indeed be democratic, pro-European, stable and effective. It will soon be seen if our hope has been established. As far as ministry law is concerned, I would like to repeat that we are pleased that the new government will have, among other things, the Ministry of Information Society, the Youth Ministry, the Ministry of Environment and Vice-President for European Integration. That's what we think of as a sign that the new government wants to be modern. However, there is no rational explanation that out of 22 ministries, the government will not have a ministry of human and minority rights, although national minorities make up one third of Serbia's population. If the new government is going to be bulky and expensive anyway, there is no rational explanation why the Human and Minority Rights Ministry is missing. In this place, I must also say that in Mr Kostunica's exposé, we have not heard a single word about what the new government is going to do in the interests of national minorities and what the new government is going to do to improve the position of national minorities. I must say that, if I remember correctly, since the 1990s, no government has been elected in this assembly and that its mandater in his exposé has spoken a word about national minorities and we are truly very surprised. These days, we have heard an explanation that the ministries of human and minority rights will not be, but that, and I will now quote this to you: "the importance of improving the human and minority rights of all institutions, and that it is less important whether the area of human and minority rights will be in the portfolio of the ministry or the service of the Serbian government". With these grades, of course, we can't agree. In view of the issue of improving human and minority rights, two things are important. On the one hand, it is important to know exactly the address we are addressing, so that there is no conflict of jurisdiction, in the sense that each state authority considers that someone else is in charge of resolving a question and the position of national minorities. The adoption of legislation on the way of elections and the jurisdiction of national councils, for example, has been late for years, as it is not known who should prepare it and where this law should be adopted, which is very important for national minorities. On the other hand, it is important that the body dealing with these issues has a certain weight and cannot, therefore, even the ministry and the service. Right after the January elections, we announced to these parties that today or night will form a government and that we are interested in creating conditions that ensure the preservation of identity and existential security of all national communities. We immediately announced to the parties who will now form a government that we consider extremely important 12 goals from our party's pre-election programme and I will only list some of these goals. It means that in areas where minorities live in a significant number, the volume of state sources of funding for the development of economy and infrastructure is significantly increased; that, by applying the principle of proportionate employment, there is a significant increase in the participation of minorities in state institutions, as well as in state and public enterprises; that the municipalities of Ada, Čoka, Kanjiža, Novi Knezevac and Senta, by changing the borders of administrative and territorial units, are moved to the administrative district with its head office in Subotica; that full autonomy of Vojvodina, national councils of national minorities is achieved; that there is not, too, in an expose of any word that would necessarily be adopted by a regulatory act that regulates the powers and means of the selection of minority, personal autonomy, national councils of national minorities; that no state measure would be implemented that would artificially change the national composition of the population; that would be regulated by the public in the local and regional development of the state-based in the state-based, in the field of the Bulgarian culture, the state-based language, the state-based, the state-based education and the state-based, the state-based education of the state-based education and the state of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state, the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the law of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state One of the goals is to provide the state with adequate and secure financial resources for the functioning of the National Theatre in Subotica, the Novosad Theatre, the Cultural Institute of the Duchy Hungarians from Sainta, the Cultural Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and the Forum publishing house. We have made it very clear, as early as January, that the possible support of SVM MPs to this government depends solely on whether those priorities that we have formulated in the pre-election campaign as a minimum, which leads to the improvement of the preservation of identity and existential security of the Vojvodina Hungarians and all national communities, will be defined in the new government's programme, at least some of our stated objectives. I must conclude that none of our targets are contained in Mr. Kostunica's exposé. We have carefully listened to the programme of the new government, the exposés of the prime minister and found that, absolutely, none of our priorities, which we consider to contribute to further democratisation and Europeanisation of the Republic of Serbia, were available in the proposed programme. That is why MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians cannot vote in favour of the proposed programme and will be abstained today. I certainly want to underline, the SVM will certainly be part of the new parliamentary majority. We are unreservedly prepared to vote in favour of any legislative proposal whose adoption contributes to the approximation of the European Union, democratisation, the economic strengthening of Serbia, and, of course, to a greater degree of protection of minority rights. I would also like to stress that we will be constructive, we will have our legal proposals, amendments to the proposed laws. We expect our draft laws to come to the agenda of this esteemed home and that democratic parties support our proposals. In the end, we expect the new government and its ministers to always have an open door for our proposals and suggestions, applications and demands, to a much greater extent than it has been in recent years. These SVM requirements, I want to underline, will always be well-intentioned and, equally, in the interest of both the national communities and the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1244	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Are any of the heads of Parliament answering for a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to the debate of the MPs. The word is Mr. Srdjan Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1245	Ladies and gentlemen, honored candidates for ministers and candidates for Prime Minister, I don't see a better situation and a better place to talk about the Roma Party programme than here and now, about the programme we received in the elections, which was very clear. We expect that this government consistently, perhaps it would be better to wait a little while for those fighting for minority votes to come out and remain those who did not discuss in the last assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1246	Please, it's not correct. Don't make me do what I don't want to do. I pray for peace, be careful and listen to every speaker. Help me, too, when you know it's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1247	Yesterday in this House, we competed for an hour and different political parties talked about who had more important Roma votes. I think that when the camera walks, it will be clear to whom these Roma voices matter, who cares to listen to a Roma in Parliament and who doesn't. The Roma Party program isn't just Roma. In our programme, we said we advocated the consistent implementation of the Action Plan on Better Position for Children in Serbia, which is precisely the government, which has come forward. We insisted that this government has an active programme for socially endangered categories, because we feel it best, because Roma are the most socially endangered category in Serbia. We also, during the month of parliamentary work, held talks with representatives of all student parliaments in Serbia and agreed with them to propose to you to create conditions to pass a law on student organisation, to make representatives of student parliaments legitimate representatives in talks and negotiations with the government. And not only that, but to create an opportunity for Serbia's parliament to bring forward their initiatives directly. In that sense, I promised them that every legislative project, every amendment agreed upon, that I would sign, that we would also create a different, democratic climate in the Serbian Parliament. In our programme, we also insisted that conditions be created for the adoption of anti-discrimination law, which will not only protect minorities, but also protect all groups that differ by something different from others. I think it is extremely important, what Dr Vojislav Kostunica was talking about, to continue to work on defining the legal framework for the implementation of the policy of achieving the rights of national minorities. However, when it comes to Roma, I have to notice that, although there have been some successes two years ago, we are not satisfied with how long it's been going on. The truth is, we Roma, too, are guilty, but the Roma Party proposes to approach the issue in a different way and in this direction we suggest that the following issues be analysed. The first issue is the question of defining the institutional framework in both the Serbian government and the Serbian Parliament for the implementation of such activities. We expect this government to include Roma in the resolution ministries that are important for implementing the decade, and Roma, which will carry out certain activities in a very concrete way. Any different approach will not give this government legitimacy in that direction. Every different approach will talk about the tutoring system, not the integration system. However, I believe today in the talks we have had with the political parties that have formed the government, that this will indeed be done and that this will be done in the best possible, productive way. The next thing we expect the future government to do is define a way of interministar co-operation, since there is no forwarding minority ministry. We don't think that's necessary. If there is adequate interministral co-operation, then it can be a better and more efficient model, but a model that requires a very clear political commitment to actually organise such a programme. We also expect to define an administrative, technical and professional organisation within the government, which will indeed be just that, not that it will take over government, Roma community and Parliament's authority, or MPs in that area. We expect very concrete budgets to be defined in the government, because without the budget, not enough declarative assistance, we cannot even implement the process of Roma integration. We also expect, in co-operation with the government, to define parliamentary control of the whole process, by making the relevant body in Parliament, or committee, responsible for this issue. In the end, I don't know where you're gonna get this how I'm gonna vote, I haven't said anything about it. I am prepared, as a member of the Roma Party, to support this government. I'm going to vote for, in anticipation of what we've been talking about actually being realized. I urge you to establish this on the Vojvodina case, where we have defined a similar institutional framework. Before we defined this institutional framework in Vojvodina, only seven Roma reported themselves to have suffered certain attacks. When the Roma entered the Duke's government, we detected 30 such reports. Simply, participation in the government means that the people have greater confidence, that the same feeling they have towards the state of Serbia continues towards the Serbian state. I am most grateful to those MPs who have listened, and those who do not want to hear it, I do not know who gives the right to go to the next elections, in the course of one day, to visit the Roma wave, to swear that they will work for the integration of that people, to swear to take care of refugees from Kosovo, and there are 100,000 Roma, in addition to 200,000 Serbs, from Kosovo, who are here in Serbia and who are in Europe. We must know, at last, that this is not a people to whom we should address only because of the votes, but that it is a people with whom we should lead Serbia on our way to Europe together and that it is a people who can be very constructive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1248	Mr. Riza Halimi, may Mr. Laslo Varga be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1249	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that if the representatives of minorities have not already been in Mr Kostunica's exposé, if we haven't had room in the ministry law, at least we have the patience to hear what the minority representatives say. When we advocated during the election campaign that we had to have a representative in the highest legislative body of the state, we had a lot of problems to convince dissatisfied people, because of the unfulfilled government programme, twice potentiated, after three years, like, renovated, and now, after six years, again with major and very important parts of that programme that remained unfulfilled. Now what? Yesterday I could hear those stories from the SPS government again, e.g. that in Bujanovac, with 55% of Albanians according to official data from the Bureau of Statistics. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] It's an organization of this government. Not to believe this official information and get it out of this pay phone that Albanians have come into power by manipulation, it's absolutely incomprehensible. I'm asking, where's that going? Is it possible that in the municipality where there is a minority in that numerical majority there is no possibility that there is a majority in one proportional system? The second was the story of Mr Dacic, who wants to apply, when his authority in Bujanovac, the manipulations, instead of the current proportional 22 to 23 Albanian representatives, allowed only 11 or 12. That's how much it belonged to us at the time. It is absolutely incomprehensible to me that even in this time, after so much work in the multi-party system, the basic values of democracy are at stake. I think that atmosphere seems pretty pessimistic. Then the question arises how will we achieve the electoral programme and about economic development, if it is known that the Presevo municipality, with 90% of Albanians, is six times more underdeveloped, by all parameters, than the average of the Serbian state. How do we give optimism to the citizens on the ground that after eight years, we'll finally get the special police off our heads? She's been on that ground the whole time. How can we finally solve problems in education? Will the new minister act like he doesn't even know what's going on there? Will this previous ministry deal with the problem of Albanian higher education? Currently, the vast majority of schools in Pristina, Tetovo, Albania, and taxes are paid in Serbia, although we do not have any students, no institutions. Take Montenegro as an example. In the space of two or three years, we engaged in an outpatient maternity facility in Ulcinj. Almost a year ago, it was finalized, and here it is on paper. Take your turn, see what's up with the school. It's been searching for four years. We'll get to Mars sooner than we get to that college here for real. These are very understandable demands, but which so far have not been met with an acceptable, reasonable mood to solve these problems. Based on what we've been identified for in the election, we'd be inclined to try to work together with the new government to solve these problems, to carry out what we've done with our program. It can be a democratic government, it can be a pro-European government that we stand for. We will be able to work together to solve these sensitive problems of our citizens on the ground, but this start is not good. I hope, however, that we will continue to create the necessary climate so that these citizens too feel that they are on their hearths, that they can achieve rights, human and collective, that not always the people of the OSCE have to remind the authorities here that minority projects should be realised, as is the case with the multiethnic police, even with the Ministry of Interior, but with considerable support from the OSCE. Is it possible to create a climate here that even without some initiative from Europe, from the OSCE, even if it is Euro-Atlantic, this country, in the interests of its citizens and minorities, can realise projects that are of general interest, which lead to stability, which I believe is our common goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1250	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1251	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have important news to tell you. It is in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the dignity of this high house. The moment we talk about the government of the Republic of Serbia, some new defence minister, or I don't know who, he ordered an attempt to arrest General Mladic. They've blocked the entire Deligrad street, harassed all possible passersby there, shut down all approaches. I would like to know something from the representative of the future government of the Republic of Serbia. I guess they didn't catch him again, so Olli Rehn will be a little disappointed tomorrow, but he will praise the efforts of the new government and new ministers. So my question, ladies and gentlemen, is the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the present and future, is this some kind of organized action for you to agree with your mentors and to tell your bosses – the most important thing we have delivered to you, or is that such a routine action, something that is meant to shut down the entire streets? Why don't you arrest "the Duke of Meridian Bank" with 11 billion euros, instead of chasing Serb officers around Belgrade? Is that the Serbian government's job? You're proposing him here as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, I don't know what, and you're arresting Serbian generals for defending the Republic of Serbia and for protecting the Serbian people west of Drina and Danube!? Good start, ladies and gentlemen. It doesn't have as much to do with the Rules of Procedure as it has to do with brains and morals, and it's a long way from each other. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am horrified at the beginning of my work, the way this government is starting to work. We know that "Dad" comes to Belgrade tomorrow. We know he's going to check on you tomorrow and we know he's going to congratulate you tomorrow and give you visa breaks. When I say visa breaks, I count, our people won't be able to go abroad. Only instead of 35 euros to pay 34 euros to get a visa and instead of four days in front of the embassy, they will now be able to do it in three and a half days. So these are very important reliefs, and I agree, these are relatively significant reliefs. I'm just asking, what happens next, besides the arrest and attempted arrest of General Mladic? Kosovo and Metohija? Is that next? Is that what Ollie Rehn is asking of Serbia? We have been working all day to get a response from the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia and we have not received it. Is that what you said, Mr. Jeremic, was your policy in the "Washington Times" interview, where you said it was important just to find a way to get Serbia into European integration and then - independence for Kosovo and Metohija? Is that your policy? Does Olli Rehn advocate Kosovo's independence or not? That's our question. Is it your only policy to arrest Serbian generals, from those who carry the Order of the Karajordz star, such as Jovo Djogo, until, tonight, General Mladic, or will you do something in the fight against corruption, so you will ask the "principal of the Meridian Bank" where he gets eleven million euros from? You didn't understand - the Duke of Meridian Bank is Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1252	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1253	Some of them thought of Mr. Dinkic. Dinkic is a dead race here. It's not right, Mr. Grouchy. I'm surprised you say it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1254	The time for MPs is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1255	Mr. Moron, I'm just letting you know that important things and very bad things are happening outside this room. Here are the people who have been arresting people for differing opinions and harassing them for giving workers bonuses. For nothing. Today they're so rich that some countries don't have as many budgets as they have money. Unbound for this, the government promises to fight corruption and crime, and it has come down to the arrest of people who carry the Orders of the Karadjordjev Star, the abolition of our brigades, who are the bearers of the National Heroes' Orders, that is, by removing and firing people who carry the Order of Courage and all other merits in defending the Serb people. I ask the question, will someone answer what's going on in Belgrade? Who's doing this tonight and who's arresting in our capital? Who gave someone the right to close downtown Belgrade streets? If no one has given anyone the right, I'll go and get everyone out of there. Believe me, it won't be too much of a problem, but I'd like to hear only who gave the warrant tonight, while we need to talk about the Serbian government. Is it because of your "daddy" coming to Belgrade tomorrow -- because of Ollie Reno, or someone else? It is a great shame for Serbia. You've got a lot of work to do. You've got something to do. In Serbia, people have a hard time living. It barely ends with the end. In Serbia, criminals as much as you want, and mobsters as you want, but fish smell like a head. You start with your government, then you arrest honest and honest people.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1256	Replica. Mr. Ivica Dacic. I'm asking you to follow the time, because we won't be able to finish the most important job, and I don't like not to finish the most important job.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1257	The job should have started a long time ago, to get it over with in time, but we will respect the agreement of all political parties in all of this. I volunteered for the replica of Mr. Riza Halimi, as he mentioned the time of the Socialist Party of Serbia's government. Meanwhile, he said a number of critical remarks on the position of Albania's national minority in its area. I must inform you, Mr. Halimi, that the Socialist Party of Serbia has been out of power for seven years, remember, seven years. Therefore, at a time when we were in power, you were the president of the Presevo Assembly all along. The criticism I referred to last time works. You didn't mention Presevo Valley this time. I warned you it was a separatist term. I'd like to ask Mr. Jocic if the BIA officers who found weapons and military equipment warehouses there, who arrested Wahhabi, who, in the Presevo area, Medvedje and Bujanovac, found all those weapons of the former Bujanovac Liberation Army, Presevo and Medvedje, were war criminals and were they following your orders? Make sure that when you give orders, the next government does not declare that it is against national or national interests. Since Mr. Vukic has informed you of something, I also want to inform you that, just as we are discussing the election of the new government, the BBC is, it is your friend's television, not Russian television, has just announced the news, and so is Croatian television, that "the heir to democracy", the title holder of "the leader of the free world", George Bush, president of the United States, will visit Kosovo on June 10th and that independence of Kosovo will be declared at that time. That's a nice sign and that is, unfortunately, an indication that those whose support you rely on are not thinking well of our people and our country. If you want to stand up to them, we will support you, and if you want to support them, we will bring you down and throw you out. Mr. Brajovic, just once again, when I grew up, I grew up with your role as silent. I just can't figure it out, Mr. Brajovic, that you're sitting in the benches of those who even the partisans and the Chetniks. You'd be on the list of some MPs first for lustration, considering how many Chetniks you killed. That's your political message. If you are ashamed of what you were playing, be like Djordje Balašević, who said- I am ashamed of what I wrote "Three times I saw Tito, the marshal" and what I wrote, as it was -- "count on us". Just so you know, history can't be erased by rubber. As far as we're concerned, be whoever you want. It's your choice. It's just, in life, you have to have some principles. I'd be happy if I had at least a little, at least this much enjoyed the benefits of the communist system as many of you enjoyed that time. You're attacking the Socialist Party of Serbia for that. I haven't hooked up at all, unfortunately, and I wish I had. Because when Zdravko Čolić sang the song "Friend Tito we swear to you", you were all standing on your feet here, except for rare exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1258	Thank you, Dacic. He has the word Mr. Wolfich, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Riza Halimi, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last news we get from Deligrad Street is quite dramatic. In fact, military police are attacking the room by room. Most of the time, there are dissents, poor, officers, evaded officers from Kosovo and Metohija, who are trying to protect themselves and their families. We demand an urgent explanation of the regime's representatives, to tell us what they're doing and to break up their insane action tonight, not to harass officers or citizens of Belgrade or anyone else. We both know who's coming to you tomorrow and what you have to lay down, you have to lay down accounts, but we're asking you to stop this action tonight. We receive messages every three minutes about what is happening on the Deligrad Street, in Belgrade, and this is a flagrant violation of not only the elementary human rights of these people, but, in the worst possible way, endangers the course of this session. If we in the Serbian Radical Party were willing to agree to allow you, apart from what is a democratic custom in this parliament, to choose your government after a brief debate, it would be good to inform the public about what is happening and who has given himself so much authority, who has given himself the right to do so. It's nothing funny, Mr. Jeremiah. We'll find it funny when you're arrested for everything you've done against the state of Serbia. Then Serbia will rejoice, and no one in Serbia is looking forward to it now, Mr. Jeremic. What did you find funny in that? What's funny about that? Do you have any problems with the citizens of Serbia, with the officers, with what? Or are you looking forward to tomorrow being able to submit the worst possible report, in which you will be the best possible, as you and the German Deputy Foreign Minister were kissing, as if I didn't know who came to visit you, and the one who is looking for an independent Kosovo, Mr. Jeremic?- I'm sorry. It's not a friend, it's not someone who's asking Serbia to help, it's someone who's looking for an independent Kosovo. And this is ridiculous for you tonight. You haven't sat in this bench in two hours, you're funny again! What, should someone fear you, powerful ministers? What, to flee Serbia because of you, powerful ministers, who are a great force? You have the support of both "Dads and Moms" and Olli Rehn and Javier Solana, so should we run away from you and from "Dad" and "Mom"? We will not run anywhere, and you will remove those troops who want to arrest Serbs and harass Serbian officers tonight, as you know and know, remove them faster and better, because neither we nor the citizens of Belgrade nor the citizens of Serbia will suffer your evil, nor yours, nor anyone else from this government. That's what you're taking care of. Keep in mind, we are very patient, we are very calm, we are very patient, but the citizens of Serbia are on the lower edge of patience and can no longer listen to "Dad" or "mom" or you. And they won't listen to you anymore! He wants free Serbia and wants freedom for his country. So take good care not to laugh when it comes to the torture of Serbian officers, when it comes to harassment by state authorities, because there is nothing funny about it. It's just a big problem for our country. I'm waiting for someone to come out and explain to us what's going on on Deligrad Street. Here, and all the journalists went to Deligrad. No one's waiting here anymore. Everyone's waiting to see what's going on out there tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1260	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie, give me your word so I can give someone my word. Give me the word now.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1261	I will, Mr. Grouchy. Thank you for your attention. No one in Serbia is laughing tonight. Even when you choose a government, it won't be funny, it'll just be sad for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1262	I'm asking Minister Jocic, not right away, but to prepare him to say something. I pray for order and discipline. [[elevator in the O.R.]] There's gonna be a chance, give a man a chance, something else's going on. He has the word Mr. Laszlo Varga. Have Mrs. Vesna Pesic ready. Here you go, Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1263	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Hungarian community, there is great relief because of the fact that the government will be formed, a government that will be at least partially pro-European. But we also feel a great disappointment when we look at the offered program, first of all, from the corner of minority communities and minority rights. When the proposal for a law on ministries did not provide for the establishment of a ministry of human and minority rights, we also assumed what kind of government programme we could expect. The director of the Human and Minority Rights Service has explained to us that each ministry will deal with the problems of national minorities. The government program tells us otherwise. I would like to remind myself that a system of minority self-government in Serbia was established in 2002. For the past five years, we've had to realize that it was then done as a necessary evil, with no sincere intention of making this institution work in reality. The relationship between the existing government and these institutions is clearly referred to by the negligence that led to half of the national councils running out of mandate at the moment. Neither does the Government Programme, unfortunately, contain anything encouraging about this issue. If the amendment of the MPs of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians was not accepted, according to which the Ministry of State Administration would have the authority to adopt a rule on the selection of national councils, there would be no state authority after the formation of this government that would have the authority to call elections for national councils. Therefore, we have only hope that the government will still have the strength to pass the National Assembly legislation on jurisdiction and the selection of national councils, a law whose adoption of the national community has been expected for years. In the end, I'd just like to say it again. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians cannot vote for this programme, will not vote for this government, but will vote for any legislative proposals that are pro-European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1264	Thank you, Mr. Varga. The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic. Have Mr. Zarko Obradovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1265	The current, and possibly future prime minister of Serbia, said in his exposé that the government is being educated by the parties deciding to put national, state and citizens' interests above each other's party differences and party interests. I'd like to ask Mr Vojislav Kostunica a question. Did he put other interests above these national, national and citizens' interests for four months, during which he let Serbia collapse and lead citizens to complete madness? I'd say we're in this situation because you've been acting really recklessly. You didn't get a majority in the election, and you're trying now, and all the time you've been blackmailing you to be prime minister, even though you didn't get a majority, even though one other party has gained more votes than you have. Citizens believe you should not be the prime minister of Serbia. You are not the legitimate prime minister, nor will you be the legitimate prime minister. You will be legal, as you like to say, because this congregation majority will now choose you, but you will not have democratic legitimacy. You felt that only you could be prime minister and blackmail other parties had suspended the regulatory shift of power in Serbia. Please don't say that Serbia is a democratic state anymore, because only when the government is constantly changing and regularly changing, then we're talking about a country being democratic. I ask you, when did you put these states and national interests above party interests? Did you then, when you made the congregation majority, on May 8, at night, with the SRS and brought Serbia, sacrifice it simply led to a break-in, or when after two days you gave up on it and went to ask Tomislav Nikolic to resign? When did you put these state and national interests above, first or second time, or simply never put those interests above your own? You have not wondered what the price is and therefore you remind me of Slobodan Milosevic, because it was he alone who based his strength on indifference and the question of how much Serbia should pay. That's what you did, and that's why you acted to be re-elected today as prime minister. Of course, in this whole story, you're not the only actor. We had to ask ourselves how your current coalition partner, the Democratic Party, accepted that after that (if you believe it, I don't know, you can confirm it) what Mr Tomislav Nikolic has said here, you may have denied it, perhaps not told the truth, that you told Boris Tadic that he is an unreliable associate, a traitor, that he will betray Kosovo and that you will not go to the coalition with him, cooperate with you. I'd like you to explain to us whether it's true that you said that about your current coalition partner and to explain how you gained this sudden trust, how that craft came about. A little bit of one, a little bit of the break-in, so from the break-in, after four months of agony in which Serbia is located. I thought that on the night of May 8th, when the drama unfolded in the Assembly, when we stayed until four in the morning, we voted in a roll call and elected Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic would address and explain what it was about, that he would even say what it was about. However, he answered Sunday, in "The Imprint of the Week," and said - well, these are objective circumstances. I must tell him that the real leaders never say that you, Mr. Kostunica, or anyone else are objective circumstances. The leader creates circumstances and chooses what is best for the citizens and for the state. They did the blackmail. Of all the opportunities he had ahead of him, he chose to give up again and succumb to the blackmails that you had spent four months in front of Serbia. Also, I think that the Democratic Party should know from now on, as well as the entire coalition, that if you in your ambition towards Serbia and the national interests have completely caved in, that, if nothing else, you have received an ambitious opposition, which will constantly watch what you are doing. If you haven't had that opposition by now, you'll have it from now on. The opposition is needed. As you know, she will exercise control and will not allow this coalition to do what it wants. I have the impression that you have agreed to create some two types of state, some two types of government. I am telling Boris Tadic that the government is not only responsible for Vojislav Kostunica, but also is responsible for Boris Tadic. He spoke the other night, even though there is no constitutional right to do so, that insubordination or "unworthy" ministers would be directly replaced, as if Parliament did not exist. He said he was going to persuade Mr. Gilas to cooperate with Velya Ilic. Is he the prime minister or are you going to be prime minister? Have you agreed who's going to take responsibility? Will the executive power lead Vojislav Kostunica, or will the executive power lead Boris Tadic? If you think you're going to make two factions of the party state, believe me, you're not going to make it. As already said here, the opposition will at least be about as strong as this unprincipled coalition. In the end, I have to say we'll watch you together. We won't make any difference whether it's a minister from your party or if he's a minister from G17 Plus, from New Serbia, or if he's a minister from the Democratic Party. You're always the same. If I sit next to the thief, I'm an accomplice and I'm also stealing. If I'm sitting next to the guy who slaps and kicks the press, I'm the same. Don't tell us, and I especially say to the Democratic Party, it's Kostunica, it's them or them. They're all the same ministers and everyone's responsible for everyone. So, we're going to have two party governments, and we're going to throw blame on each other every day, no. We're treating you as one single government from now on, where everyone fits, although you've said very unprincipledly that the human policy of any party doesn't interest you at all. It doesn't matter if this guy suggested someone who has nothing to do with the ministry, whether you juggle these ministers, nobody gets involved. I think that principle is extremely harmful to Serbia. He shows nothing but that you have not put party interests and your party appetites above national, national and citizens' interests. If we can't get into the quality of the minister, if no minister of yours has changed, but you just, as balls, moved them from one place to another, why would we ever believe that you tried to fix anything and that, in general, you plan to bring Serbia anything new and better. Since you have tortured Serbia these four months, although, by nature, we are optimistic and ambitious people, believe that you have brought that ambition down to zero, and now everyone says - thank God, here we have a government. Mr. Kostunica, well, there's no state in the world that doesn't have a government. What does it look like only Serbia can't get a government for four months? It's not putting national and state interests above party interests, it's not. Your whole strategy was to put your party interests and your political appetites in the first place all the time - that you must remain prime minister of this country. I don't think there's any particular hope from this government. It's a good thing we got government somehow, because that's, I guess, normal. Every country has some kind of government, but to know that we are completely indifferent to that government, like all citizens, who say -- well, they kind of agreed, so let them do what they know, but they'll have to take their fate into their own hands. A government like this, such ministers, such behaviour, this is the way Serbia gets on the verge of collapse, and never at all, not even anywhere, accounts, it's a top-notch irresponsibility. Not today, not a single minister who's been out to say what he's achieved, who he's been keeping accounts for. What's said here more than once, is that every party in the whole gets the ministry, so it can't be any double key, but in general, by vertical, believe me, it's a corrupt system in itself, because the party and party leader manages the ministry, and it's not a state body. Our heads left two or three factions of political parties and nothing else. There's no state, you haven't been able to build it. There is yet to be an assignment for serious people to build a government and a normal organ, in which you will know where there is responsibility and who is responsible for something. We will call you and President Tadic, because he has not resigned, he is also president of his party today, and he knows that it violates the Constitution and that he cannot perform two public functions at the same time; he has made all the confusion because he has held those two functions. So, you know, you're responsible, Boris Tadic is responsible, and I don't have to mention Mr Dinkic, because I really don't know how much his responsibility is; at least so far, he hasn't shown any.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1266	Thank you, Mrs. Pesic. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, let Mr. Todorovic prepare himself. I remind the heads of Parliament to keep an eye on them and to spend the time they have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1267	Dear colleagues and Mr. Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, really, at the beginning, I have to say that I do not know why Mrs. Vesna Pesic mentioned Slobodan Milosevic in a negative context, because he and the way he exercised power as president of Serbia and the president of Yugoslavia, as the people would say, was a sweet mother compared to what happened after 2000, which you could hear from different sources tonight. In any case, tonight, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are discussing a new, tenth-rate government in multiparty Serbia. The mandate is the same, we have an old partner in the government, G17 plus, i.e. The prime minister has one new-old Democratic Party. One thing is certain, the rest is no longer the same, neither will they be in government nor in those jobs they work together on. Why? Because one of these partners -- G17 plus, in the new year, blackmailed the government at the time, came out of it and caused new elections; later it was just formalized, by an appointment of elections and what happened. The same partner now, as part of the new assembly majority, has again blackmailed others that they will not be in the future government until the president of the National Assembly, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, is replaced. So the government didn't even start working, and the blackmails have already begun. The second partner, the Democratic Party, has been talking about the prime minister all over the years. Several years ago, they wanted to be arrested, and about the Democratic Party of Serbia as foreigners expressed the most negative views possible. I think the highlight of those scores was reached last week, on the night between Monday and Tuesday, when we had a debate on the election of the president of the assembly. Mr. Prime Minister, one thing's for sure, you'll be in a situation of complete security, because your new political friends will follow your every step. I didn't accidentally say political friends, because part of a political settlement is the formation of a National Security Council, i.e. that Boris Tadic, as president of the DS, would be someone who runs the council. The council will be led by the president of the Democratic Party, not by the president of Serbia, because it does not fall under the authority of the president of Serbia. The constitution of Serbia, which we all swore tonight, or at least some of the speakers, very precisely, in Article 112, determines the authority of the president of Serbia, and says there, forgetful reminders: "The President of the Republic of Serbia is representing the Republic of Serbia, declaring the laws, proposing to the assembly of candidates for the Prime Minister, proposing the holders of functions in accordance with the Constitution, setting up and recalling the apparition of ambassadors, receiving letters of accreditation and impeachment, giving pardons and distinctions, doing other jobs with a certain constitution. The President of the Republic, in accordance with the law, commands the Army and sets up, improves and dissipates Serbian Army officers." I don't really see it, and it will be interesting to hear what will be the legal basis for the adoption of a law that would form a National Security Council and give Mr. Tadic the opportunity to control all of you. One thing is certain, RTS, as a public service, and I guess they should be trusted, because they express the views of the parliamentary majority, Democrats, DSS and G17 plus, has reported as the first news that an agreement has been reached on the future government and that the Security Council will be led by Boris Tadic, we now see -- as the president of the Democratic Party. Serbia now also knows that the ultimatum of Javier Solana is respected that Tadic should control the security services. I don't think it should be doubtful that Solana said so at all, because on the night between Monday and Tuesday, Mr. Aligrudic came before us twice, and the Serbian public to read to us that he was just asking that Tadic control the security services and that it was something that could not be accepted. Unfortunately for Serbia, such a government is definitely formed from Brussels, from Solana, Rehn, Merkel and similar to them. And to remind the forgetful, these are the same ones who have committed aggression against the SRJ, Serbia-Montenegro, in 1999, and who are now openly pushing for an independent Kosovo and Metohija. About the government and its objectives, the candidate for Prime Minister is tonight and also the other day in "Politica", he said, "The parties that have decided to form a government have put the interest of state, nation and citizens above their party interests." If this had been said by the Prime Minister three months ago, it would have been true, but after three months of grumbling Serbia, negotiating, ultimatum through means of public information, blackmailing each other, carrying out the views of the parties, and ultimately carrying out what they agreed, believe me, it is degutant to speak in that way when we all know it's not true. And the assessment of the parties that make up the government is that party interests were absolutely dominant in relation to any state objective. After all, it was only in the end that we learned some three or four goals that tonight the candidate for Prime Minister tried to explain, in our opinion, extremely unsuccessful. Serbia knows and is not exactly Serbian citizens so uninformed, despite the way the National Service works, that state interests are not the primary. One of the colleagues mentioned it, I must say, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the division obviously exists and will be present and future. Tonight, when the candidate for Prime Minister represented candidates for ministers, they only received applause from representatives of their parties. So much for unity and common goals. After all, both yesterday and today, when we talked about the Ministry Act, we saw that the law, the framework for the work of the future government, was absolutely subordinated to the interests of individual parties, their ambitions, probably to get a good home, because I don't believe that the state and citizens will be taken care of. I mentioned yesterday, I can't help but mention today, for example, that the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development will be doing all the jobs of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economic Relations with the Foreign Ministry took part in the activities of the Ministry of Tourism and part of the jobs of the Ministry of Employment, and today another amendment was adopted, proposed by his party colleagues, under which he would also work for local self-government. So much for the ministries. When it comes to the composition of the government, I must state the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, that it is absolutely unacceptable for us to support those candidates who, essentially, do not have working biography, who, in our opinion, have done nothing important at work, and especially those who, working in the previous period, between 2001 and 2004, have done so much wrong that I do not know what this optimism can be based on, let some hope that future in the government can do something for themselves and for their party colleagues. As an example, I'm going to name a relationship to the Army, which has been systematically destroyed since 2001. It should not be forgotten that members of the Democratic Party actively participated in this; the party's president was also Minister of the Army. They worked hard to reduce the importance and quality of the military, to perform various reorganisations, to reduce numerous compositions, to exchange and to retire capable and quality officers, all according to the instructions from Europe, and therefore they are also interested in controlling both the military and the security services. The number of soldiers has been reduced, according to various officers, to about 30,000, on the grounds that the number is adjusted to the size of the country, to the number of residents and to the needs of the country, although, for example, it is a completely different case with Greece, which is a NATO member. It differs slightly in size and population, and it has, believe it or not, 135,000 soldiers. No one can rationally explain why we need to have one number and the other one. We also cannot accept those DS candidates who participated in the collapse of the judiciary at a time when the ministry led Mr Batic. I think those judiciarys were then absolutely subordinated to party interests. We cannot accept those people, or members of the political option, which, through privatisation, on the grounds that it is necessary to change the character of property, essentially robbed Serbia. In a few months, they poured a huge social fortune into the pockets of a small number of people. Then there was the behaviour of ministers from the then governments or governments, however, who, not once, accused, slandered the Socialists, found them guilty, called on their public lynch, which is unacceptable for us absolutely unacceptable. We don't think people like that can work successfully, except, of course, for themselves and their own party. For all of these reasons, as well as those presented by the SPS President, Mr Dacic, the SPS Group cannot support such a proposal from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1268	Mr. Batic, replica. Have Mr. Dragan Todorovic ready, followed by Mr. Alexander Marton.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1269	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been mentioned several times by Mr Dacic, Mr Obradovic, Mr Omeragic. If we're making parallels between the situation in the judiciary at the time I was the minister of justice today, I don't think that's right at all. At the time, the main judicial institutions were led by extra-party figures, both the state prosecutor and the Supreme Court president and the district attorney and the president of the district court. There was a Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court ruled. This mentioned a number of cases with political connotation, which were resolved by the Constitutional Court decisions, etc. I mentioned earlier that exposés are a colorful lie, or rather, a list of good wishes. Why? Because we can do an exposé parallel from March 4, 2003. Here's what we were promised then. What were the priorities - the preservation of the state union, and it fell apart. Did the prime minister resign? It's not. The second priority was Kosovo. Neither then nor today, we still have a report from the State Negotiation Team, which was obliged to present it to the National Assembly after the negotiations in Vienna were completed and to receive guidance for further work. We don't have that report. Swearing in Russia is an account with no innkeepers. History teaches us that these great expectations have always gone wild. A question for the mandater -- if these great expectations, that Ahtisaari's plan will fail, that Russia will veto the Security Council, that negotiations will continue, fail, will the future prime minister resign? It's a matter of responsibility. I was already talking about the Constitution and the institutions. We still don't have a president of the National Assembly. A farce or laxity and playing with both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia has been made to elect the president of the National Assembly. I hope we get at least the government tonight. In a country where the media is shut down again, where people are again calling for informative talks over a verbal delinquent, where the persecution of political insinuators is being prosecuted, democracy cannot be talked about. The question is who is in fact forming this government -- tycoons who care about ending Serbia's robbery, because it is necessary to privatise both EPS and NIS and everything else, there is still a lot of money, or those who act on a political scene? One of the promises was -- a quick path to European integration. We're officially the last person on the road, and now we're celebrating repairing the visa regime. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Albania have already received that. The association and stabilisation agreement was signed by Montenegro. Montenegro will be before us in the European Union. For us now and East West, we should wait in front of consulates to get visas for Romania and Bulgaria. Well done. They've figured out where to go, and with this present and future government, which calls on Russia day by day, we're going to have a hard time getting there. What to say about fighting crime and corruption? How to talk about the fight against crime and corruption in a country where the biggest criminal is accepted at the highest state level, is welcomed by the police minister, Justice Minister, the head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, head of state television. It's not a fight against crime and corruption. We even started exporting crime. The biggest robbery in Dubai, three weeks ago, was carried out by our countrymen. So, there's nothing good about it, and I hope these words don't get me arrested again.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1270	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Mr. Todorovic has a word. Have Mr. Alexander Marton prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the first time that a multi-party has been introduced in Serbia is happening today at this session of the Assembly, where we should choose the government. The government has never been elected without the President of the Assembly. The government has always been elected only after the election of the president of the assembly. It has also never happened, and it has been changed in total, which is the federal, which is a dozen republican, ten governments so far, to elect the government, and the representatives of the coalition's parties do not go out for a pay phone to justify and support their participation in the government. You from the Democratic Party, which could be noticed when you read the Ministers' Proposal, touched only your ministers, as those from the Democratic Party of Serbia have handled their ministers, as it speaks of your future co-operation in this government. I must remind you that we are practically present today at the formation and selection of almost the same government that has already been elected in 2001. Then it was DOS, today it's a democratic bloc. I have to remind you that this DOS government has come to a lot of trouble. She came up with problems they couldn't solve, because in the government, radios appeared and drones appeared; or they criticized the drone for failing to perform the duty he had to perform, or because he was exaggerating in those affairs. I don't know how today, when this government is formed, it's going to be a new division of roles. I'd like to draw attention to some things, not from today's exposé of the future Prime Minister, but from the exposé he submitted on March 2, 2004. First, we didn't have time for today, secondly, listening to what was heard and seen, so to speak, everything was the same as it was in 2004. I mean, Mr. Future President, it would be best for you to be able to tell the speaker what you've accomplished since you promised in 2004, and there wouldn't be any dilemma and no problems. Those results would be the best recommendation to vote for the prime minister today. I will remind you of what you promised in 2004, and about what you did, the evaluation and evaluation will be given by citizens of Serbia. You promised then that "Serbia's priority would be to establish its status within the state union with Montenegro, establishing and strengthening the state union itself, in line with the Constitutional Charter". I'm quoting you not to be a free interpretation. What happened? You did nothing to call the elections in Serbia for the Serbia-Montenegro state union parliament under the Belgrade Charter in 2005, giving Mil Djukanovic the legitimacy to break up the state union. After that, a referendum was organised in Montenegro. Although you knew that the referendum was falsified, that they stole in a referendum, you recognised Montenegro's independence and thus paved the way for Serbia to break down and separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. The second thing you promised was that you would do anything to strengthen the rule of law and to banish crime and corruption. What did you do on that plan? What about "Cuprom"? What about the "road mob"? Let me remind you, one of the leaders, not the leader of the "road Mafia", returning from the Rovinj seminar, with the director of the Road Directorate, left the vehicle when he heard the police were going to arrest. The Director of the Roads Directorate received an annual vacation and no criminal charges were filed against him today. What about the Customs Mafia? Arrest customs officers, therefore, customs officers who need to respond because they made fake papers. What about those whose goods they were importing, why didn't you arrest them, so that they might respond? What about those who stole the state through the National Savings Bank? What about those who stole the state by making unfavourable contracts with TV B92? What about "the bankruptcy mob"? It's all the same as customs. The arrests of those who allowed some, against the law, for small money, to come to a great fortune. Where are those who are allowed to do so? You're arresting officials and those who helped, not those who are responsible for destroying this country. The third thing you promised, it was the most serious problem, is that in Kosovo and Metohija, everything is done to get Serbian exiles back to their homes and homesteads. What happened on March 19, 2004? I understand that you were unable to prevent a coup against Serbs, but what have you done, how many Serbian refugees from Kosovo and Metohija have returned to Kosovo and Metohija? We have had the opportunity to hear in the previous days that your representatives are having a problem with the mistrust you have with the Democratic Party's representatives, because they are negotiating with some who are trying to steal Kosovo and Metohija from us. You also have the resignation of Leon Koin, who was the adviser to President Boris Tadic. You've known Leon Koin for a long time, and you know it's an honorable man, and he would never take such an act without serious arguments, and he's not sure what the Serbian presidents did was harmful to Serbia. You, perceiving Leon Koin's role and his contribution to the Kosovo and Metohija talks, asked Leon Koin to remain on the team. What are you going to tell Leon Cohen now when the man he resigned for is supposed to be foreign minister? Now Leon Cohen will resign to you too, because this is how you betray Serbia. You promised in 2004 that you would do anything to reduce unemployment, which at the time reached 950,000 people. You said, "I have in mind that today is about 950,000 without a job, and many indicators speak of surplus workers in many companies." How many are there today, Mr. President? There's over a million of them. At least you stayed on the same number, so let's say, some success has been achieved, they're gone. There's more of them today. You promised to cut the debt of the country, which at the time reached $14 billion, and today it's $19.8 billion. You promised to do everything in your power to intensify your work on the completion of Corridor 10. Mr. President, I must inform you that Corridor 10 does not take the highway to Požega. That's some other direction. Europe is interested in other ways. I must tell you that the state's interest is towards the Bulgarian border, towards Macedonia. I don't think at any time that we need to modernize our network and get proper highways, but we need to take care of the priorities and interests of this country. You said then that you would do anything to prevent individuals from doing so under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I know you've been uninformed for some time, but here, let me inform you that there is a man sitting next to you who will be vice president in your government, and there is almost 11m euros in "Meridian Bank". To be clear, you know not only about Djelic, but about many of the DS, all the dirty things about them and the money that was robbed in the previous period. Here is Mr Milosavljevic, what are you going to do about the Law of Conflict of Interest? You promised in 2004 to shed light on all the murders before and after October 5th. What murder did you light up? Do I need to remind you how many of them there are and how many of them are left? You said you'd do anything to make co-operation with The Hague two-way. All you've done so far has been, exclusively, one-way cooperation. Mild or violently, you took people to The Hague. A complete military, police and state summit is in The Hague and you haven't helped a single man there, we know it best. We, for Vojislav Seselj, need both legs and hands to extract the documents this state has, to help show that the charge against Vojislav Seselj is false. Do you know that the UN tribunal condemns people with the help of witnesses who claim to have been shot at by machine guns and that they remain alive thanks to God's will? Have you been informed that we have 34 signed statements by the UN tribunal, tried to bribe them, to falsely testify against Vojislav Seselj? What did you do as a state to help the people in The Hague? You said you'd do anything to help the refugees living in Serbia's territory, and there are about 370,000 of them, you say. Mr. President, in Grmovac, a place very close to Belgrade, on the highway, there are over 2,000 households that have built houses with their own money, and today's government does not give them the opportunity to join the power. Is this the help you promise the refugees? Ladies and gentlemen, that is the effect of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. That is why the Serbian Radical Party will in no way vote for the government's election.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1272	Before I give my word to Mr. Marton, the word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1273	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed MPs, I think the Military Security Agency has also come out with a statement. Around 10.30 a.m., the search has been conducted by certain procedural actions, under orders from the investigative judge and war crimes prosecutor, and in connection with war crimes indictees. These activities were carried out by military security authorities, and it was an army facility on the Deligrad Street. I think it's over and I expect the authorities to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1274	Thank you, Mr. Jocic. Mr. Marton has the word. I apologize, Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word before him.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not satisfied with this statement by Minister Jocic, because he points to many negative relations in Serbia. The interior minister cannot say that something is happening in Belgrade, that it is done by the Military Security Agency and that they are likely to issue a statement. This is where the Prime Minister sits. You spoke to us here on behalf of the Prime Minister. It's not like you've already separated the Military Security Agency from the Ministry of the Interior, or the Security and Information Agency, what's it called?- I'm sorry. You're here for us, Mr. Jocic, the one who cares about what order and peace will be on the street. What military security agency? The whole of Belgrade closed down the Military Security Agency! Don't, it doesn't make sense. Let the Prime Minister come out, let him say who we're arresting today in Belgrade. The war crimes prosecutor's office has ordered the Military Security Agency to arrest Belgrade. Do we have two states here, one run by the military, one run by the police? It is Kostunica-Tadic's relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1276	Mr. Marton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1277	Dear Vice-President, honourable MPs, the position of the Vojvodjan Group of MPs, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, you have heard on several occasions so far. We cannot support Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's government for several reasons. I have just pointed out that I am addressing the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, but sometimes I think this is the Belgrade City Assembly. Four-fifths of ministers, or candidates for ministers, are from Belgrade. I think it's something that doesn't contribute to the decentralisation of this country. All parties supported by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, both the DS and the DSS and the G17 plus and New Serbia, will be sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia tonight. I have to point out that the decentralisation story really hasn't really stood up to this point, and especially from now on, it won't. So, four-fifths of ministers and ministers will be within 500 metres of the government of the Republic of Serbia, from the Republika Srpska Assembly. It's something that doesn't contribute to the democratisation of this country. I would just point out that it is no wonder, until now the post of Minister for Local Self-Government was performed by Mr Zoran Loncar, a resident of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, a man who is president of the Regional Committee of the DSS. He fully subordinated the role of the republican minister for local self-government to one political option -- the DSS's option and did everything possible to make local self-governments who are not at the will of the ruling party face major problems. What we had the opportunity, in the past few years, to see in many municipalities in Serbia, is that the DSS was opening up the crisis, then Minister Zoran Loncar as if he had, for God's sake, been coming here, and then, in many local self-governments that were not at the will of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, forced administration. There's a lot of cases like that. I come from Zrenjanin, and it hurts me that DSS, SPO and New Serbia, with 9% of the vote, opposite of 91% of the vote, as many SRS, DS, LDP, LSV and some other parties make up 100% of the authorities. I think it is something that the future minister of local self-government and the state administration will have to change very quickly, and the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, who will be elected this week, will urgently call new elections in these municipalities. I hope that the fact that four-fifths of ministers live in Belgrade, from Belgrade, will not completely centralise this country. I think we're about to have a very dark situation in Serbia. Once again, I say that LSV MPs and members of the Vojvodjanski Group will do everything possible to hear something that comes from something that is not a circle of two in this centralised state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marton. There's a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the terrible information we received from the Home Secretary is doing some military security at 10:30 and everything is under control. If there is something, or if it is not, they may report something to the People's Messengers, or they won't. I guess this operation is so secret that only a few million people at this point know, and only the MPs, I guess, can't know what's going on out there. I am obliged to inform you of the knowledge, of what we have come to. In fact, around 11 o'clock this morning, a tour of the sewers began, closing all the streets, opening up an apartment for the people on Deligrad Street, especially in the so-called "Deligrad Street". The military hotel, the removal of people by carrying out, and, I'd say, less harassing those who didn't want to "cooperate" with the authorities of the military police. That's what's going on right now. A certain colonel is currently in charge of the whole business, criminally, obviously, as long as it's some big secret or I don't know what it is. Mr. Mrkonjic, we'd like you to give us, in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I don't mean at this point to ask Gilas if Velya steals five million euros a day or two days, nor do I think I'm asking Bozidar Djelic where there are 11m euros, if there's any other couch aunts or anything else, but I think it's time you let us know what's going on in Belgrade in accordance with Article 226. You're going to form this criminal government, so you're going to form, no matter what, anytime. I see that some of Garmispartenkirhen have already started to act as though they were managing their ministries, but it is important that you, too, have an obligation to inform us of what is happening in Belgrade. I don't know who their "dad" is and who their "mom" is, I know they're Solana and Ren. I don't know who mom is and who dad is, anyway, maybe they're changing, it's not particularly important, but what's most important is that tomorrow you "Daddy and Mom" don't welcome with as good news as you planned, and that Serbia welcomes it as the most beautiful news possible. I'd like you to tell us once again, Mr. Vice President, whose brilliant idea was it that when they choose the worst government in modern Serbian history, they lead this kind of action? Why is it timed at this point, who is the direct commander of such action, and what does Serbia get? Serbia, of course, is getting nothing, and be assured that this is a bad sign. Don't forget, on June 10th, George Bush comes to Kosovo to promote an independent Kosovo, and you look to arrest Serbian generals, see if you arrest Serb officers, see if you can arrest all Serbs, preferably someone else with a national hero or a Karadzic star, to show how small and small you are. No wonder Serbia is failing, but it won't be long.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1280	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1281	Mr. Chairman, as already said here, the War Crimes Council issued a warrant tonight for a search of a military facility in Deligradska 40, a military hotel, on suspicion and possible arrest of war crimes indictee Ratko Mladic. That order was given by a man named Dilparic. I want to ask you, those of you who want to be in the new government, is that a smart move for you? This is a direct provocation and spit in the eyes of the citizens of Serbia, but not only that, this is also a direct provocation to parties who wanted to be constructive and to complete their presentations, so that you could form a government within the constitutional and legal deadline. Due to a move like this, I ask the vice-president of the National Assembly and the chairman of Milutin Mrkonjic to interrupt the session and to schedule immediately consultations with the heads of Parliament's clubs, on the I floor, on the continuation of the work of this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1282	I'll listen to Mr. Dacic, I'm taking a break of 10 minutes and I'm asking all the heads of Parliament to come to the O.R. on the 1st floor. [[Resume session at 22.40]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs, Mr. Zarko Koraq has his word. (Dragan Todorovic, from town: We did not get the information. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1285	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, just tell me on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure you convey the powers conferred upon you. Just tell me which provision of the Rules of Procedure you're referring to. I understand that you can leave the pay phone and the presidency, just tell me on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure you transfer the delegated powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1286	I suppose a member of the Rules of Procedure regulates that. And if they don't, I don't really know him. (Mr Milutin Mrkonjic surrenders his powers to Mr Obradovic)
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1287	According to the Rules of Procedure, I assume, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1288	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, under Rule 225. Rules of Procedure, the MP shall have the right to be informed of any circumstances which may affect his vote, particularly in an hour and 15 minutes before the constitutional deadline for the constitution of the Government expires. I will read to you a document by the District Court in Belgrade: "On 14th, 2007, on the basis of Article 78. The law on criminal proceedings, and on the basis of a proposal from the war crimes prosecutor, I issue an order to allow the authorities of the military police department of the VP 1120 from Belgrade to enter the apartment and other premises to search, at the address on the street Deligradska No 40, the military hotel "Deligrad", and this room no. 416 which is located on the 4th floor of the hotel and used by Zoran Stanojevic. Under this order, the search will take place on 15.05.2007. “ On the day of 14.05, an investigative judge issued a warrant for an emergency search of room 416 at a hotel in 15.05. First illogicality and time frame. Let's move on. Explanation. "The war crimes prosecutor's office submitted a proposal to this court on 14 May to issue an order to search apartments in the military residential hotel "Deligrad" and a residential building -- barracks located in Belgrade, at the address of 40 and 40a. The proposal requires the adoption of an order, since there is a suspicion that Ratko Mladic is temporarily hiding in that address, and there is a likelihood that by searching that apartment, the defendant will be found, all considering that an arrest warrant has been issued for the execution of the criminal offence referred to in Article 142. The KZJ and indicted before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia for adequate crimes against international humanitarian law. In view of the written and reasoned proposal of the applicant, the investigating judge made a decision as in the statement of this order, which must bear in mind the provisions of the members who were prescribed to carry out the search by day, but that it could be carried out at night, if it was started by day and it was not completed, or if there were reasons set out in Article 81." Ladies and gentlemen MPs, there was approval, meaning for room 416 in the military hotel 'Deligrad', although the investigating judge said the prosecution also requested approval to search the barracks at the address of Deligradska 40a. The order is not authorized to search any part of the facility except for room 416 at the military hotel "Deligrad". What was the military police doing this morning at 9:30, and maybe now? Maybe that's what he's doing right now, if this is our appearance at the pay phone didn't stop it. They searched 300 rooms where families with small children live. A short while ago, your interior minister, former and future, submitted an insubstantial report to the National Assembly, in the sense that the Interior Ministry does not know what the Military Security Agency is doing on the streets of Belgrade and in the dwellings of the citizens of Belgrade and expects the Military Security Agency to issue a report on it. A sad state in which the interior minister does not know who blocked the traffic in Deligrad Street all day, in which the minister does not know how many police officers are in that location, right now, and the sad state in which the government and government are forming with the third point of their programme -- that he will co-operate with The Hague to arrest Ratko Mladic, and puts a finger on all of us within two hours of the deadline. He expects us, who want never to be arrested, to allow our conduct in the Assembly to be formed and to arrest Ratko Mladic. Well, you know what, which is a lot -- it's a lot. With this kind of explanation... Was Ratko Mladić arrested? (No) So it's not. With such an explanation, tomorrow the military police can break into the National Assembly building, because the prosecution will write that there is a reasonable suspicion that it is located on the second floor in the premises of the Serbian Radical Party. The investigative judge will give the order, so the army will surround you with the Assembly, search the Assembly, and the interior minister will not know what it is. And, turkey dots, not valid, so the suspicion was not justified, otherwise you would already be celebrating the arrest of Ratko Mladic here, and we would mourn. Either the Prime Minister will say whether this concept of the government has divided Serbia into parts that will be controlled by the military and parts that will be controlled by the police, parts of cities or whole cities, or it will give some reasonable explanation for all this, or we will use our right to discuss the bill in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Three and a half months you've been harassing us and all of Serbia, our watch against that won't mean anything. Then go to the polls and tell me what kind of an accident you've been making, why it took you at midnight to pronounce the government as vampires. We sincerely and heartily wanted to allow you to express your constitutional majority in Parliament. [[Applause]] I don't belong to people who will run from the shown majority in Parliament, but you don't deserve it either. You've shown yourselves before you've been chosen!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1289	The word has a folk MP, Rasim Ljajic. Rasim Ljajic will show in what capacity he speaks. Here you go, Mr. Ljajic, give me an explanation. Mr. Ljajic, do you want to speak, or should I leave the word to someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1290	Only two sentences, as coordinator of the Action Team for the implementation of the Plan. There's still a team. As Mr Nikolic said, there was an order from an investigative judge. The authorities had information that one of the Hague indictees, Ratko Mladic, was hiding in the facility. The raid started around 10:30 this morning. It lasted until just now. The military police have done their job properly. No one complained that his rights had been compromised in any way. The civilian police on the street were there not because of the action, but because of the Red Star-Vojvodina game. So none of the Hague defendants were found in that facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1291	One second, you'll all get your word in the Rules of Procedure. First, Mr. Jovanovic, then Mr. Batic. In accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic answered first. In accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MP, also has the right to request an explanation by Mr Rasim, who was otherwise invited to this session as a candidate for the minister, spoke as co-ordinator for co-operation with The Hague tribunal, because he had all the necessary information the MPs asked for. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1292	Given that the current government, with this today's act, has imposed this topic, I feel obliged to read this document to you. The document was brought by the Srebrenica Municipality Assembly on June 25th 2005. It reads: "In order to determine the full truth about the crimes that took place in the Srebrenica municipality, and to build trust and a brighter future for the citizens of Srebrenica, on the basis of Article 12. The Statute of the Municipality of Srebrenica, the Municipality of Srebrenica, was held on 8th session, held on 25th. Six. In 2005, she reached the following conclusion: 1. The Municipality of Srebrenica condemns all crimes committed against all citizens of the Srebrenica municipality, especially crimes that occurred between 10 July and 19 July 1995; 2. The Srebrenica municipality asks the competent authorities of Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina and international institutions to bring criminals to justice as soon as possible and to remove the collective responsibility of the people and to improve the future and co-existence of these areas; 3. The Srebrenica municipality is appealing to all its citizens to condemn all the crimes from the period 1992-1995 and to insist in their request that all crimes be sanctioned, so that the current and future generations of the Srebrenica region jointly build conditions for their better future, with a clear message that the silver tragedy will never be repeated again." Please, this is a decision adopted by the representatives of the Srebrenica City Assembly, which was then 27, 17 of which were Muslims and 10 Serbs. The Serbs were not involved in this, only 17 Muslims made this decision. Have you heard in these conclusions that at least once the word genocide is mentioned? Not once. And the president of this country insists that Serbs in Srebrenica have committed genocide. Please, Mr. Prime Minister, you and that man are entering the coalition and making a government. Are you, like him, for Serbs to be declared genocide and for this assembly to adopt a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica? Make a statement about it!
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1293	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, then Vladan Batic, then Aleksandar Vukic, all in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1294	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's clear what this is all about. If we arrived with blackmail just before the government vote, then blackmail can't be the method on which the government will be formed. It is a very clear authority of the Assembly. This is a country where there must be a division of power into executive, judicial and legislative. The assembly is not in charge of the ongoing debate, and the government and the candidates who came here on behalf of the future government must not and are not obliged to apologize to anyone for implementing the law. Ratko Mladic is a place in The Hague, as well as all other people on the International War Crimes Court indictment. There must be no compromise on this issue. Mr Ljajic, you are not the one who has the right and must not apologize for eventually deciding to apply the Co-operation Act with the UN tribunal in this country. Until Parliament changes that law, executive and judicial authority must respect it, and that obliges the previous government, the future government, candidates for ministers and candidates for prime minister. If we have to choose between that last blackmail and breaking the constitutional deadline, then we have no dilemma at all. Serbia does not need a government to apologize for applying the law, and especially not the government that apologizes for applying the law sanctioning the most serious crimes, the crimes of war crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1295	Here you go, Mr. Batic, and then, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for almost four months now we've all been hostages of one arrogant, irresponsible policy. These last weeks and MPs make decisions at some deaf hour of the night, at a time of vampires or morning roosts. That's how the president of the National Assembly was elected, so he was relieved, so the government was elected. We don't have much time. Take advantage of the possibility that you have a parliamentary majority, suggest you stop the debate and vote it out. Continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, violate the Constitution, because the Law on the Ministrys was passed by the Rules of Procedure and by the Constitution, and those who are making this government at the last minute, within a minute to twelve. Maybe you're counting time on the Julian calendar. It is the same group that celebrated the Serbian New Year in front of the Federal Assembly. The same group wants to build a government along with a beloved prime minister and a popular estrad singer. So count the time on the Julian calendar, you have two weeks left, but this all looks like "described". He will not be angry with Mr Brajovic, he is the only actor from the first authentic version of "Signed".
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1297	Mr. Alexander Vukitch, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Ljajic did not have the basis to receive the right to speak, but rather had the right to receive it as chairman of the "Partizana" Supervisory Board, although I do not know what he is doing here, but rather by some other function he has called on here. You right now, Mr. Ljajic, nothing, air for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that you've already imagined yourself as ministers, I see you've lined up like this, in the first and second order, some of you are already frozen by fear of what's going to happen in another hour, well, that's another thing already. It has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To inform you, the "Meridian Bank" actions are falling dramatically on the market and Djelic no longer owns 11m euros but 9m euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I came out here because the Serbian Radical Party, therefore, Tomislav Nikolic was very clear. Republika Srpska Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica must go out for a pay phone to tell us if the government has organised an attempt to arrest General Mladic. It's not according to the law, Mr. Jovanovic, because you don't know much about the law and you never knew too much about the laws, about the Constitution especially. That school of yours, the law school, is a long way from Belgrade Law School and any other law school and has nothing to do with the Constitution or the laws. What's happening tonight on Deligrad Street is completely contrary to all moral norms, to all legal norms. You can't search the entire hotel, the whole building complex, stop traffic, harass people, and not know what it is and what it's about. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has to explain whether it's a government order or whether it's a warrant from a newly-seen minister, whether it's a defence or a police officer who knows who already knows who, or whether it's someone from a "marshalate" in Garmispartenkirchen ordered it, or who already knows who. Anyway, I expect a response from Vojislav Kostunica. For the citizens of Serbia, let me share the informal information. They arrested and arrested a man, we don't know exactly what person he was talking about, but General Mladic was not arrested. He certainly wasn't there, as he wasn't in Serbia. Thank you again. I expect a response from Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1299	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dacic, then Mr. Kostunica. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in consultation with Milutin Mrkonjic, we agreed next. Given that there is no agreement between the republican parties on the continuation of the session, and since we are the opposition political party, responsibility and any doubt as to whether or not someone is obstructing or helping the government to take over those who aim to form the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at this point, of course. That is why I asked Milutin Mrkonjic to ask Radet Obradovic to continue the session in the coming period. Furthermore, I would ask, since we're all talking about deadlines here, to shorten this whole story, and to suggest something to Mr. Kostunica. Of course, it is most important that Ratko Mladic is not arrested, and I urge Mr Vojislav Kostunica to remain consistent with what he said during the past government, which is that there will be no violent extradition, but only, possibly, voluntary surrenders. I would ask Mr Kostunica to stop this, as we agreed at a meeting of the heads of parliament clubs, that someone, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would give official information on whether this has something to do with the government, whether this action is timed by the old or new government, because the terms used and ordered are consistent with the choice of new government are directly directed against national and state interests. I don't think anyone normal would have ordered that kind of thing to be done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1301	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. The word is Mr Vojislav Kostunica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1302	Dear People's MPs, things are clear, not just when it comes to these facts. Anyway, I need to remind you of something earlier. There's a division of power, there's a division of jurisdiction between certain state authorities, and, if I have to answer that question, I'm going to tell you right now, without any apology, this is not done by government order. There's a certain judicial authority, there's a war crimes prosecutor's office, there's a military-security agency, there's certain regulations. Based on all that, as far as you could hear, one check was made, no arrest, and, indeed, without any harassment or anything, that thing was over. On the other hand, I want to tell you, when someone has already asked if this was done by government order. You know, this is the last thing that would fit the government. I think it fits someone else who wants to obstruct, that the government doesn't form. The point is quite clear. Besides, the truth of the matter, to remind you that the UN tribunal, in different ways, was working together until 2000. There was co-operation, right? It is known when that obligation is established. It was established before 2000. Then he cooperated after that and now, at this point. What matters is that you know that there are certain independent judicial authorities, in this case the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. It does its part of the work, according to the current regulations of this country. Also, there's a certain service within the Department of Defense, that's part of her job, and it's really something that's a functioning state, which is the application of regulations, nothing else. The least interesting thing about this government is that it's happening at this point, and the real question is, in fact, to whom it suits. I could answer that question very easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1303	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1304	If I can understand all this well, I accept that judicial independence in Serbia must be respected. I asked you who arrested her, who searched the apartments, who harassed the kids? You're saying the government didn't issue a warrant. You say that was the Department of Defense. The Department of Defense must not close the street, the Ministry of Defense must not order raids. Only the Home Office does that. It's absolutely true, Mr. Minister. There is no apartment in Serbia, on the street, in an address that anyone other than members of the interior ministry, with a warrant, or if they are chasing directly the perpetrator of a crime hiding in that apartment. What army at the door? The other thing, the hardest thing and the worst of all, I know who's doing it, who's to stop the government from choosing. I might as well tell you, but, of course, I'll never tell you. Is that your coalition partner? There's no other way. Either Tadic sent an army, or you sent the police. If the army was sent there without your knowledge and you're accusing someone who sent an army at the moment, that's your coalition partner. We had absolutely no reason to, but we're glad that the whole udura didn't work out. You want to introduce this to your bosses' new government -- here, we're finishing our jobs, and we haven't even been elected yet. Go on, we won't interfere with you choosing this government, it's not our wish. So, right away, Mr. Kostunica, it's not the Serbian Radical Party, and then sometimes you'll be honest, even if you write in the memoirs who wanted to stop the Government of the Republic of Serbia from choosing tonight. It's not the SRS. There'd be a charge against us. But you wanted to arrest Mladic at the moment when we allow you to form a government, so that our voters say - what you radicals are saying, you made it possible for the government that arrested Mladic to be elected that day. So much that you humiliate us? Well, we're not little kids. You once deceived us, Mr. Kostunica, now feel free to look left or right, never look at me again. We're done with that story.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1305	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic reported. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1306	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a scandalous explanation, Mr. Kostunica. You better not have been out. Either there will be law in this country or there will be no law, or there is or there is no law, but it can't be both. If you're uncomfortable with the fact that you have to enforce the law at the moment of the government's election, imagine what it's like for those who need that law to be implemented. You didn't look back at your exposé on the unsolved murders you were involved in the first time in the post of Prime Minister. If you'd done that, you wouldn't have been able to bypass October 5th, 2004 and murder a guard on Topcider. We won't disturb you any further during the session, we'll honor the promise we made, but what you've done is more compromise than anything we've ever said, criticising you and your politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1307	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Wolf, then Mr. Canak. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the prosecution with the judicial authorities, as far as I know, and I used to study well at law school, shouldn't have anything to do with it. The prosecution is an independent state body. The judiciary should be independent, and I don't understand exactly who asked and who asked, except today we saw that boaster, anti-Serb, Vukcevic, threatening to continue to arrest, how he did a lot for Carla del Ponte, because he's one of her closest associates. I was asked a question, listening to Vojislav Kostunica, when you poured righteous anger here, Mr. Kostunica, whom did you think you wanted to obstruct the choice of your government, which will bring very good to the citizens of Serbia, because our people are not waiting for anything but just waiting for your government? If it hadn't been for Tomislav Nikolic's arrest tonight, if Lydia Vukicevic hadn't arrested someone tonight, or Bozidar Delic, or anyone else, that one of the Serbian radicals didn't want General Mladic arrested tonight, so we wanted to... I understand the ministers are impatient, a little nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1309	Please allow Mr. Vukic to finish his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1310	So, who were you thinking of, Mr. Kostunica? Did you think that when you punch your hand on what you're going to scare the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party as well as others are afraid? You didn't scare us, because we don't deal with arresting Serbian officers. This wouldn't be the first Serbian officer your government would arrest. You have arrested, Mr. Kostunica, Jova Djoga, and I will remind you of that, the 70 per cent disabled bearer of Orden Karadjordje's star, the bearer of the Order for Courage, the highest honors of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia, just because it was sought by Carla del Ponte. Just because she asked for Karl del Ponte, you will replace Rade Bulatovic and will allow Boris Tadic to be president of the National Security Council. But there is no end to the humiliations that Serbia expects. This is a prepared action today, there are some details that we must not tell citizens at this time, which we have reached in the SRS. Some details about how and how precise the action was planned, what they were up to, and counting on it not to be at the expense of the new government, but to be done by independent authorities at the time of the old government, that the new government could not be attributed. And they came up with everything nice, but it looks like some of their shafts and sewers, I don't know what happened to them, stood up to them. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be good if someone told us that the prosecutors were truly independent and the courts were independent. You know who they don't depend on? It doesn't depend on the law, depending on Sam Nazar, an American embassy officer. Sam Nazaro is the supreme god for our prosecutors in Serbia and for most of the judges and the Supreme Court and the most significant district courts. That's the point, it's a dad for judges and prosecutors like your dad and mom, all together, Ollie Ren and Javier Solana, and you're not exactly sure who your dad is and who your mom is, and they're not always sure. However, it would be good for Serbian citizens to know who they are tonight, to know exactly who it was and who it was that obstructed. You Serbian radicals are accusing us of obstruction. We agreed to schedule a session for Saturday, Tomislav Nikolic agreed to schedule a session with his shift on the agenda, although he could schedule it for Tuesday. Isn't that right, Mr. Aligruditch? He could have scheduled a session for you for Tuesday, so you wouldn't dream of choosing a government. He agreed to schedule it for Saturday, to be replaced. Then the ministry law was scheduled. We agreed to stop the principle debate until two o'clock, so that at two o'clock tomorrow we could have a discussion on the amendments. At four o'clock, Tomislav Nikolic comes out today and says -- it's okay, I'm interrupting and discussing amendments to the ministry law, so you can show that something, for God's sake, is good for Serbia to do, and we don't want to use obstruction, so you don't say "that's why Serbia is failing". I know that you have prepared lex specialis and everything else, to change that will, that we have gone in other ways to fight you. In the greatest possible correctness of the representatives of the SRS, you answer in such a way. Is that your answer? It's our fault, it's our fault Bush is coming to Kosovo on June 10th, which he thinks will give him a promotion of independence? Is that Tomislav Nikolic's fault too? It's Tomislav Nikolic's fault too. It's all Tomislav Nikolic's fault. I wouldn't say that's exactly the way it is. I don't think, ladies and gentlemen, that you know what's going on tonight, except that this is one sad event for all of Serbia, as well as tonight, which we're choosing the government, the right to tell you, seems more like a memorial, unfortunately, a memorial for the whole nation and for the whole country, but a choice of something good or happy. Still, there's one good thing. Unlike the time when Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped, I see tonight that members, those who have imagined themselves to be representatives of the future government, as well as the current Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, are, however, informed, aware of what is going on, and that is major progress. It is not a good sign to elect a new government, it is a very bad sign, but Serbia is a good sign -- that it will have to endure in the fight for freedom. We will defeat both "Dad and Mom" and preserve both Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia and defend the elemental freedom for all of your citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1311	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, the last reported is Nenad Canak. Mr. Canak, come in and let's continue the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd only like two words. I really don't understand Mr. Radicals, because if you don't want Ratko Mladic arrested, there are others here who don't want to, so why didn't you make a government with them, I'm sure he wouldn't be arrested with the DSS. That's the first thing. Secondly, if the action started at 9.30 this morning, how come, gentlemen, the radicals who knew that, right? Did you find out this afternoon? [[Louds from the bench: We found out this afternoon.]] Gentlemen Radicals, don't you who know everything that's going on in Serbia know that in the middle of Belgrade, the street is closed? Are you saying they secretly closed the street?
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1313	I ask the MPs to allow you to present the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1314	All in all, not to owe the story, I don't understand it, and that's why it's clear that you don't want to take over. Let those who are ready enough to do it and let's see what we do next. Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Vojislav Kostunica, I don't understand as much as he says - at this point, we don't feel comfortable doing this. At this point, he's not fit to enforce the law. I don't understand what these moments are like where there's a good time to enforce the law and there's no time to enforce the law. Article 101 says when someone doesn't understand someone, then they have to get a word to explain. I just explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1315	I ask that only the MPs and men of the service remain in the O.R. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1316	You guys are bringing people in here with guns in the O.R.! I had it in 1993.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1317	There was no one with a gun. The secretary general has informed that they are leaving the O.R. except for the MPs and security personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1318	Don't lie, I touched the gun behind his belt, and the DSS MP immediately sent him out of the O.R. to put the gun down. How can you not be ashamed? Who's going to attack you here? Are you out of your mind? You attacked yourself. Who's attacking the suicide? If we don't help you get off that rope, we certainly won't hang you. You're not normal. What's going on with you guys? A gun in the National Assembly? You idiots. Who was he trying to shoot at? I don't even understand what you want to bring into Serbia anymore. It is not true that the Serbian Radical Party does not want power and responsibility. We don't have anyone. I owe an apology to the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. I was supposed to catch this bastard, knock him down on the spot, see how Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica introduces his associates, who whispers something in his ear, with a gun behind his belt. Once again, I apologize to all the MPs of the SRS, who will no longer speak even though they have applied for the word. We're giving up further exposure. You guys just keep going the way you started, and you got off to a very bad start. Remember this evening where you brought a gun to the representatives of the people, to the National Assembly Hall, while the National Assembly is sitting. Remember this evening, you'll remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1319	Anybody else answer for a word? The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like, as well as Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to apologize to our MPs who will not use the time, and we have enough, until the end of this discussion. In the end, I want to say that I am sure that tonight's event, too, confirms that this government does not need any opposition. They're so bickering with each other, they'll destroy themselves. I hope it will be one more time, and I'm convinced, before the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1321	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Since there are no more MPs on the list... Aleksandra Jerkov comes forward for a word and she is the last registered speaker in this discussion. The total remaining time for your assembly club is four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Vojvodjani Parliament, I would like to inform you that we will also not use the minutes left. I want to tell my colleagues from the DSS and the DSS that they have prevented other MPs from speaking and that they have prevented us from telling what we have. So much for their understanding of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1323	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? (No) I'm closing the search and we're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a programme presented and candidates for members of the Government, before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 192(1), paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure shall decide on a proposal for the President and members of the Government in general by a secret vote unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly on a proposal for president and members of the government vote publicly - using an electronic voting system. I am putting the motion to vote on a proposal for the president and members of the government to be voted publicly - using an electronic voting system. I'm closing the vote. For -139 versus -11, the abstentions were gone. 76 of the 226 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the proposal for president and members of the government - using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the proposal for president and members of the Government - using an electronic voting system, I remind you that the National Assembly is also voting on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government (Article 127(3)). The Constitution) and that the National Assembly decides on the choice of government as a whole. In accordance with Article 127(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 15(3). Law on Government and Article 192(2). Rules of Procedure, the government has been elected if most of the total number of MPs voted in favour of its election. I am voting on a motion for president and members of the government as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 133, v - 106, abstention - 3, they did not vote - 2, of 244 MPs. Since 133 MPs voted for the proposal for president and members of the government, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen the Government in the proposed composition. Allow me to congratulate the President, the Vice-President and the Government on your behalf and on your behalf. I'm setting a five-minute break. I ask the MPs to remain here to swear an oath by the Prime Minister, the Vice President and ministers. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Since it's been five minutes, we can continue our work. I have just received resignations from MPs Milan Markovic, Mladjan Dinkic, Dragan Sutanovac, Bozidar Djelic and Dusan Petrovic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: You cannot violate the Rules of Procedure at the end. )
ParlaMint-RS_2007-05-15-0.u1326	This is good for the future, when two engineers operate. I'm asking the Prime Minister and the Minister to stand up. I'll read three of these two sentences for a while. Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, stand up. (The President reads, and members of the government repeat the text of the oath. ) "I pledge my loyalty to the Republic of Serbia and, with my honor, I pledge to respect the Constitution and the law and the duty of a member of the Government in a safe, responsible and committed manner. "Congratulations, gentlemen, thank you. I ask the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Government's ministers to sign and hand over the text of the oath. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First, Constitutional, session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I call upon all present, Prime Minister, Vice-President and Ministers and MPs to join us for cocktails, here, in the Hall of Parliament. The next session of the assembly will be scheduled later. I urge the presidents of the parliamentary clubs to meet tomorrow at 12 o'clock in the first floor room and discuss further progress and activities related to the Assembly. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the sittings. Put in the cards, please. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 113 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least a third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Absence has not been reported so far. Explanation of the reasons for calling a session within a short period of time: pursuant to Article 84(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, in agreement with the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to be elected as soon as possible by the President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, members of the Committee and delegations and appointed by the Secretary and Vice-Secretary of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the Democratic Party for the President of the Parliamentary Group has appointed a People's MP, Mrs Nada Kolundžija; the G17 Plus parliamentary group has appointed the MP Mrs Susan Grubjesic, and as deputy president Snezana Stojanovic - Plasic. You have received the resignations of Dusan Petrovic, Milan Markovic, Bozidar Djelic, Dragan Sutanovac and Mladjan Dinkic as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88 of Article 2 and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the end of the time to which they were elected, to the MPs: Dusan Petrovic, Milan Markovic, Bozidar Djelic and Dragan Sutanovac, elected from the Election List Democratic Party - Boris Tadic and Mladjan Dinkic, elected from the Electoral List G17 Plus - Mladjan Dinkić, on the day of the resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. Dear gentlemen, I'm taking a 30-minute break to meet the Administrative Committee and RIK. The work continues at 10.40 hours. Thank you. [[After breaks – 10,40]] You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission, which is now being presented, on the selection of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Zeljka Radeta, places: I didn't get the material. You'll get it right away, Mrs. Turtle. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Marko Đurisic, Dr Vlastimir Badjevic, Dr Slavoljub Mitov and Vlatka Ratkovic, elected from the Democratic Party's Election List - Boris Tadic and Zeljko Ivanji, elected from the G17 Plus Election List - Mladjan Dinkic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Mark Đurić, Dr Vlasimir Badjević, Dr Slavoljub Mitovo, Vlatka Ratkovic and Željko Ivanji. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. I ask them to take their seats and continue their work. [[Applause]] Are the new MPs there? Please wait a minute. (Alexander Vukic enters the O.R.) Hello, Mr. Wolfie. Please, have the newly elected MPs come in? Yeah. They did, well, one, two, three, four, enough. Great. Please, we're going back to work. The adoption of the minutes from the previous session. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 14 February, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 May 2007. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session (Article 86(5)). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the verification in the Administrative Good Affairs Service has established that none of the Members of the People's Committee has delivered any written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 14 February, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 May 2007. 96 of the 218 MPs present did not vote for 122. I understand the record has been adopted. Determination of the agenda. With the meetings you have been given, the draft agenda for the session has been included. Before setting out the draft agenda for the sitting, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. Proposal for an emergency examination: 1. A group of 17 MPs from the G17 Plus MPs suggested that the draft law supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March 2007, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 22, against 111, a abstentioned one, did not vote 85 of the 219 members of the national parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. 2. National MP Srdjan Shin proposed that the draft decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 April 2007, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For two, against 128, 37 of the 167 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Civil Servants, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 May 2007. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For one, against 147, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Proposal to merge the debate. National MP Mrs Nada Kolundzija, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, on the basis of Article 90(3) and in accordance with Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed bringing together the debate on the second, third and fourth points of the proposed agenda. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? Yeah. You have three minutes, Hope, please.
