ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11369	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 105 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards from the Parliament's electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98, or more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Natasa Vukkovic, Oliver Dulic and Vesna Pesic. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF AZIL (resumption in particular) I remind you that the National Assembly at yesterday's session suspended its work during the debate on the amendment of the MP Dr Paja Momchilov to Article 57. Does the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, who has not completed the hearing on this amendment, want a word? (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: Let me prepare myself.) Here you are, Mrs. Radeta, feel free to prepare yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11370	So it is an amendment to Article 57 that I have compared with the amendment to Article 47 and expressed my surprise that I must repeat - why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Minister did not accept and, one and the other amendment. I am bringing them into contact because Mr Dragan Colic's amendment to article 47 extends the deadline from three to eight days for asylum-seeking persons, which should be reported to the competent commission in such a short time. We felt that this was inappropriate because simply within three days, the person seeking asylum is probably unable to cope. We must take care that when we talk about persons seeking asylum in Serbia, it is about people who have and how problems in the country of origin. Because if they hadn't had such problems, they certainly wouldn't have sought asylum in Serbia or any other country. It is mostly about people who are politically persecuted, who are persecuted for religious, racial, national, or other reasons similar to nature. That's why we thought it would be appropriate to extend that deadline. On the other hand, counterpart Paja Momcilov asked that the 15-day deadline be reduced to three days for persons who are required to leave the country because they do not meet the conditions and are not allowed asylum in Serbia. If one’s competent authorities do not accept a request for asylum in Serbia, it certainly implies, among other things, that this person came to Serbia with some bad intentions, that it may have come to Serbia and some spy ideas, i.e. sent, etc. And such a person, of course, should not be allowed to stay for another 15 days in our country. I wonder and ask the minister where this person will stay for the 15 days and how much of his undercover he can do within 15 days as he is allowed under the bill of law to stay in the country. Yesterday, after the session ended, I spoke with colleagues from other parliamentary groups who commented that this amendment could not be accepted because of the fact that there is already a deadline in a previous article 34. Article 34 refers to the suspension of the procedure and the return to the former situation. The fact is that a person seeking asylum may, within three days of the day of the end of the reason why the call for a hearing or an untimely application of the change in address to submit a return proposal. We didn't put an amendment on this article, although there was room for the amendment to react. Because there really is a connection between these two members. But if there is a goodwill and if there is a understanding that this amendment is indeed relevant and that it improves the text of this law, then there is no legal interference that, on the basis of this oral amendment, the Legislative Committee shall carry out a legal and technical order and apply this same time limit in Article 34, which, of course, MPs in the voting day confirm. It's completely business-friendly. The remark is in place. This is the idea of clearing up this situation, provided that there is indeed an intention to accept this amendment. Because I really don't see that anyone would have anything against this amendment, given that the explanation is very clear and very close to common sense, in any case in favour of the Serbian state, and certainly not to the harm of these possible asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11371	I thank the People's MP, Verity Radetti. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 58. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11372	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 58. The bill, which speaks of the types of documents the Ministry of the Interior assigns to a person who expressed his desire to receive asylum or filed a request. These documents are a confirmation for a person who has expressed his intention to seek asylum, a personal ticket for a person seeking asylum, a personal ticket for a person who has been granted asylum and a travel document for refugees. Nothing here would be too problematic for a member to say, "The contents and appearance of the forms of the IC from the 1st article's position is prescribed by the minister." The principled position of the SRS is that the ministry as an institution should be above the minister, regardless of the government's opinion that the minister has the authority to prescribe this correction. We, whenever the law that first laid down a bad provision, and then the derivative laws that draw out a bad solution, always have an objection to this bad solution, regardless of what is foreseen by some other law. We insist that it be corrected. Why is this principled attitude? Some colleagues have already spoken yesterday, and there are other things to be said, and that is - since the minister is sometimes not in a situation, regardless of what travel documents are, it is a principle, to be there and to prescribe the appearance of the document, or if they change, or even prevented some more important business or performances, for example. The government crisis, the government cannot form, as we have had this year for several months. We have a situation that there is no minister, or that one in resignation, for example. He doesn't want to do his job, I'm giving you hypothetical examples. There's got to be an organ of the state to deal with these things. No matter what this is about travel documents and what really doesn't seem too important to the state, it's an important principle. I will set an example that is not directly related to this law. You have a situation that now in Kosovo and Metohija has defeated a party headed by a man who has been accused and has committed the most serious crimes against the Serbian people, Hashim Thaci. He is known for leading the Drenic Group in 1999 and for killing two Serbian police officers Nebojsa Djordjevic and Zvonko Jeftic. Since then, it is known for implementing an ethnic cleansing policy from the southern Serbian province, for its terrorist and ethnic cleansing policies. This man is now being coerced by the United States and the European Union for the prime minister of Kosovo because they want to lead Kosovo, headed by those temporary institutions of a man who will carry out the scenario as it continues to suit them. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about the fact that we're going to have a man in charge who's going to conduct a policy of terrorism and separatism. What he's doing, for example. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs towards the countries that we are talking about at this point, for example. on the Minister, since ministers have such responsibility, what says the foreign minister of the states who are at the moment pushing for Kosovo and Metohija to gain independence? We have had objections from some of our ambassadors who have strongly protested these countries and said that our countries with which ambassadors can no longer have close relations with Serbia, because their policy is such as to demand that 15% of our state territory be taken away from us. Then, of course, that country invites our ambassador to give him a protest note and tell him - it's not your country's business, it's your private position. We talked to the Foreign Ministry and they say everything's fine. There won't be any adverse consequences. Then the ambassador wonders, and so do I, and should the citizens of Serbia, what our country does, whether it has sent any protest notes, whether it is sending demarcations, whether it invites ambassadors of countries that are every day asking for Serbia to kidnap Kosovo and Metohija every day. Every day they go to information funds and say, the only solution is Kosovo's independence. So what kind of message do they give us? Whether they have organised negotiations that are currently taking place, that the public is bewildered by the world and Serbian, so that in the end they tell us our final solution will certainly be independence. Or our country needs to do something and it needs to get more involved, so this kind of problem doesn't happen. I think this is the essence of what this Assembly here should be dealing with, because this is an essential question. This is the only way to defend Kosovo and the only way to really help our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11373	I thank the People's MP Nebojsa Stefanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Škrbić. The government and the Defence and Security Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11374	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have been considering amendments to the asylum bill for the third day. Yesterday, we realized on several occasions that if this bill is not accepted by the amendment of the SRS, it will come to great trouble and only by applying, for the simple reason that the members and the views of this law are simply not defined, they are ambiguous. You will see that by applying it yourself, you and your ministry or services working at the Ministry of the Interior will encounter problems when they come to the realization, when people who seek asylum come looking for their rights. Right at the beginning to say. The refugee status itself is ambiguous in two laws. In the proposal for an asylum law in Article 2 is one interpretation, in the proposal for a law on refugees is another interpretation, there is immediately this problem in the beginning. When I'm talking about the types of I.D., that's exactly the problem. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to replace Article 62, item 1 of the word "two years" with the words "five years". Here, you'll see that this story of mine is true, that something doesn't add up. We have submitted an amendment to Article 61, and in order to explain this, I must say, my colleague Stefanovic spoke earlier about Article 58, where it is said - 1) a certificate for a person who has expressed his intention to seek asylum, the issue of the Ministry of Interior, these are foreigners; point 2) a personal ticket for a person seeking asylum - foreigners; 3) a personal ticket for a person who has been granted asylum, also foreigners; 4) a travel document for refugees, foreigners. Article 62(1), where I have submitted the amendment, says: 'At the request of a person over the age of 18 who has been granted the right to shelter in the Republic of Serbia, the Asylum Office shall issue a travel document on a prescribed form, with a period of validity of two years, in accordance with the law. '"I suggested on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that it be five years. The government's explanation states that foreign persons cannot be issued a document for more than two years under the law. In Article 61. The bill, which we did not touch and which we left on purpose, states that the person who has been granted the right to shelter is issued with a five-year period of validity. In view of the 61st position, which is also a foreigner, I have approved a five-year-old ID card, and my amendment is not accepted, I have suggested that the travel documents for refugees also be valid for five years. What did I want with this amendment? Simply to comply with Amendment 61, in order to enable these poor, unfortunate exiled people, when they get that travel document, not to go every year or every other year to the counters to ask them to get those travel documents back, to comply with this Article 61, as I said it would take five years. You know, that these people are frustrated, they don't have money and they have a lot of problems, they don't often stand in line, it was simply the meaning of this amendment. I'll just tell you one more thing. Yesterday, in discussions on amendments, Mr. Todorovic, and on several occasions Mr. Milorad Buha also said that there are many ambiguities and ambiguous things in this law. So I would suggest that you accept this amendment, simply to comply with Article 61. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11375	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Skrbić. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Mr. Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11376	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to continue the story of my predecessor, which concerns travel documents and other documents issued by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. But the basics are in the next. The refugee statute should be as brief as possible. It will be as short as possible when the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are committed to returning refugees to their hearths from where they were expelled. However, the state of Serbia does nothing to pressure countries from where refugees came to the premises of the Republic of Serbia. We see it from practice, and that practice has unfortunately been here for 15-16 years. We have more international agreements that oblige, among other things, not only that country from which refugees are expelled, but also the Republic of Serbia, because it is a signator of those agreements. The Republic of Serbia signed the Dayton Agreement in 95, which pledged to actively work on the return of Serbs from Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that activity does not appear to be. In 96. The Republic of Serbia, along with the Republic of Croatia, signed an Agreement on the Normalisation of Relations, which pledged to actively work on the return of the refugee population from Republika Srpska, the Republic of Croatia, and Croatia has pledged to make the return safe and secure, that the compensation of property destroyed, devastated and robbed in the Republic of Croatia will be paid justly for the avoidance of the population. There is neither safe, safe return, nor restoration of houses or property, nor fair compensation. It's eleven years old now, and next year it'll be twelve years from now. What does Serbian diplomacy do to materialise the agreement after 12 years of signing the agreement? Nothing. I am responsible for saying here that no act by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has gone in the direction of Croatia in order to realise this agreement. Today there will be opportunities to ask parliamentary questions, that is exactly what I will ask, to see what Serbian diplomacy does in terms of refugee returns, the return of their property and social rights. In 98 comes the Social Security Agreement, the issue of health insurance, pensions and all other social benefits. And there was nothing done about it. So, 24 thousand items have been in the PIO Fund here and in Croatia, 24 thousand people, who have long acquired pension rights, pensions and any other donations by Croats. In 2001 comes the Agreement on Succession, and one, and the other, and the third, all the countries of the former Yugoslavia have committed themselves to actively working on the return of property rights, property, acquired rights and housing rights. No apartment, no housing rights, and in Croatia there are 50,000 housing apartments, on which Serbs had the right to do so, nothing has been returned. BiH, Slovenia, Macedonia has been returned, only in Croatia. These are billions of euros in damage to the Serb population that are being mistreated here in Serbia. In 2005, the U.S. Serbia and Croatia signed an agreement called the Sarajevo Declaration on the mandatory return of the population and that the entire population that escaped from the former Yugoslavia should be returned by the end of 2006. Today, the end of 2007, i.e. the beginning of 2008, no man has returned under the agreement. Household rights, obligations under the Sarajevo Declaration, the return of tenancy rights in administrative and judicial proceedings, return everything, carry out an audit -- not a single apartment. Where's the Serbian diplomacy? Where is the international community, where are NGOs, which should be protected, because in opposite situations and how are they advocated? It's a mess. The consequences are all of us here, and the worst are the consequences of this population living on the edge of existence. It is the poorest, socially endangered part of the population in Europe, not Serbia, in Europe. It's a shame, and it's too much for this congregation. It's the least we can talk about here in the Assembly. There will be an opportunity to hear from the foreign minister, there will be an opportunity to hear from the Prime Minister, to see what the government has done according to its resolutions in the direction of the implementation of these agreements. To return to this member now, the minister is here and I call once again on the minister to seriously consider the essence of this law. The bill is not in line, and neither with international conventions nor with declarations, it is not in line with our legal system. We had to separate political asylum seekers and we can call them, we have a foothold in international law, and refugees, since it is about Serbs who have that status. They're losing him in the administrative procedure, even without the administrative procedure, you didn't sign up here, so you lost your refugee status. But it can't, it's an illegal store. If I won it once, until I get back to my hearth, on my property, I'm always a refugee, it's international law. It's a provision of the Convention on Refugees. By what act can you deny me this, according to the provisions of the International Convention on Refugee Status? You can't, not even under the provisions of the Refugees Act. You can't do that to any refugees until we get back there, because the Serbs aren't going back there, I guess that's clear to you. You need to figure out what a political immigrant means, which means an economic, social immigrant and international law, immigrants who come to other countries for humanitarian reasons. You didn't do it and there's a basic problem. We don't feel it now because we don't have pressure in the economic and social sense, but tomorrow we'll have it. We still have Romanians coming here and working today. They're economic-social immigrants. The level of income in Serbia is now far higher than it is in Romania. Romania is in the EU, however, their salaries are twice as low as they are here. People come and work here, they're economic immigrants, but they're in very small numbers. Tomorrow it will be in far greater numbers, but we have not now legalized it in the way that the international community does. On the other hand, we didn't separate a political immigrant from all these other immigrants. What's important is that we have the Refugees Act, and why didn't one material law tie everything to the refugees? We put the asylum laws in the asylum laws. It is the main objection of the SRS, the Republika Srpska government in persecution. We talked, we interpreted certain solutions, but we can't narrow down the legal basis and what's fundamentally related to the asylum and refugee. Whoever wrote this law did not in his head clarify what the refugees meant and had insufficient legal knowledge in terms of the concreteisation of the provisions of the Refugees Act and everything he should regulate and what regulates your proposal for an asylum law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11377	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Goran Cvetanovic submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 64. The bill stipulates that the IAP keeps records of registered persons, persons seeking asylum in the Republic of Serbia, persons recognised as refugees, persons granted temporary protection, persons limited to movement within the meaning of this law, as well as temporarily detained foreign documents and documents issued under this law. SRS MPs have tried to improve the proposal for an asylum law with adequate amendments, primarily because refugees are simply in an unacceptable position in the Republic of Serbia. The refugees, unfortunately, are treated as persons coming from other countries, which is absolutely inappropriate. If we have information that over a million Serbs have come forced to live in our country, above all from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, especially after "Bliss" and "Storm", we know that around 715 thousand of our fellow citizens have gained refugee status in our country. These other people had to emigrate, first of all, to the countries of Western Europe, Canada, to the United States. Unfortunately, there was no end to persons who received refugee status, but in 1999 over 250,000 Serbs regained refugee status, or the status of internally displaced persons. These are persons coming from Kosovo and Metohija. So, not only in 1999, and later, in 2003, the persecutions of our Serb brothers and sisters, as well as members of other ethnic minorities who do not belong to the Albanian nation, were continued. The criminal government, which still manages Kosovo and Metohija today, has absolutely done nothing to bring these refugees back to Kosovo and Metohija. What's important is not only that they need to return physically, but also their security and economic status. This law, unfortunately, tries to bring back more than 150,000 of our people living in the world, mostly from Western Europe, is the most Roma population, but new problems are opening up. First of all, these people left because of social, economic, and some of them because of political problems. Since we know that most of them have particularly economic problems, that at the bottom of the social sustainability threshold, and that in those Western countries, simply thanks to the social programme, they have had the opportunity for the basic conditions of life and for them and their families, big problems are opening up when they return to our country. First of all, they have no settled housing issue, no job, and we know that the problem of unemployment is primary, or number one, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to solve successfully. Not only do we have people who don't work, people who lost their jobs after failed and unfair privatisation, but now another 150,000 people come from Western Europe, and the state doesn't have a ready answer for that. In addition to social, economic, there are also political refugees, primarily because of political attitude and political opinion. They sought political asylum, first of all because of their position, opinion, or so on. The hate speech was persecuted in their own country and they had to leave our country. They had to seek asylum in other countries and protection from other countries, but there is pressure today, above all, on people who need to testify in The Hague. There is therefore great persecution and pressure in every respect of those persons, and apparently the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have an adequate answer for them, too. On behalf of the SRS, an amendment to Article 64 has been submitted, where the MAP keeps records of registered persons, of persons seeking asylum in the Republic of Serbia, persons who have been granted the right to shelter or protection, persons who have been granted temporary protection, persons who are restricted to movement within the meaning of Article. 51st and 52nd of this law, temporarily detained by foreign documents, as well as documents issued under this law. The refugee commissioner keeps records of persons located at the Asylum Centre. Members of the SRS have just submitted an amendment to Article 64(3), where the manner of keeping and content of the records referred to in Article 1(1) is prescribed by the Minister, and the record referred to in Article 2, paragraph 2, of this Article, in a position managed by the Commissioner for Refugees. The SRS stance is completely principled, which means that instead of saying "minister", the word "minister" must stand, because according to the SRS, the ministry must be competent when issues like this are on the agenda, not the minister. Because the minister is a personal solution that is changing, although some ministers are constant, from government to government, but let us remember, the current minister of justice, the current minister of local self-government, the current minister of military, who accused the current minister of police, even as MPs, submitted a request in the Republic Assembly to change, because they had a large number of arguments to do so, and now together with him in the same government of the Republic of Serbia, they now have the same political attitudes, now suddenly big friends and together struggle to solve economic, social, economic and political problems. For these very reasons, so that not some MPs, when they become ministers, change their political views, we believe that the minister must not be in charge of such important political positions of Serbia, but of the entire ministry, because we do not allow the minister to rise above the ministry and make cardinal mistakes, not because of his political career, but because of all of us and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11379	I thank MP Goran Cvetanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11380	The amendment of counterpart Goran Cvetanovic is, and he said, the principled position of the SRS, that never in any law should the minister emphasize as someone who only represents the ministry. Always the word "minister" should be replaced by the word "minister" because the laws are passed in order to organise the work of the state authority, and the body's elders, of course, represent that body, are handling it, but it's in a completely different form than you've wanted since 2000 in these laws that you're offering us to present. I was even more interested in this article 62, but unfortunately there was no time, so I'm going to use it just to point out that the amendment to Article 62 was submitted, first of all, because this member refers to travel documents for refugees. Again, the problem we talked about yesterday, we're talking about the asylum law, and you're treating asylum seekers a little bit. What did you, Mr. Minister, try to explain to us yesterday? You know, we can't throw beans to see who you think is a refugee, who's an asylumist, but unfortunately, there are still so many refugees in Serbia that Serbia has to take special care of them. In this article 62, you say, at the request of a person over the age of 18 who has been granted the right to shelter, a travel document is spoken of, a travel document is issued with a period of validity of two years, and an exceptional period of validity of one year. Why do we think this is short notice? Because we have a lot of experience and a lot of knowledge, I suppose as a minister, how many problems people refugees have and have had to come to the documents from where they were born, because many, you know, can't cross the border of Serbia, let alone go to that place to get some document, even if they lived here without any, as people say, paper. They are not ready and will not go for these original documents because they are being held there by secret lists, public lists, years of penalties imposed by the Ustasha authorities on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Here, above all, I think of Serbs from Republika Srpska, and of course, it also refers to Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija, from some places where Serbs cannot even get close, let alone go to the competent authority to seek some documentation. By 2000, these citizens could have come to their documents much simpler, based on a copy of a book that was born over six months old, based on some other document that happened to be in his pocket when he left his house, with that plastic bag in his hand, to remind you of that, and then the state was really flexible and it's perfectly normal. Since 2000, you've been seducing strictness, so you've asked these people to have documents not older than six months, etc. I see that you already intend to say that this member does not refer to refugees, because in the text you are talking about the Asylum Office, and then you will have to explain why the superscription above article 62 - is a travel document for refugees. Since we only have one more amendment, this would be a debate on this asylum law proposal, and I am sorry, Minister, for accepting only four amendments from the SRS. And yet the responsible Security Committee, the votes of the ruling coalition MPs, also imagine, had the same opinion as the minister, which was completely abnormal to me, that they didn't have at least one amendment more or one less than the minister, but, well, you agree, you feel the same way. This happened also the other day with your colleague Petrovic, the same case, agreed on amendments by the board of directors and ministers. Since we are having a debate on this bill, I hope that the MPs in the voting day will be serious enough to understand what the intention of the SRS MPs was when we wanted to settle this law, because this law, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, will be applied to a large number of Serbian citizens who, regardless of their status as refugees, exiled or expelled persons, feel Serbia's citizens, because they can't be. At least not until Ustasha Croatia liberates Republika Srpska, at least not until the Bar Resolution 1244 is applied in Kosovo and Metohija, and until the conditions for Serbs to return to where they came from their hearths and houses. Why do I say and claim that all these people feel for the citizens of Serbia? Here's the proof. You all know that parliamentary elections are scheduled for the Croatian Ustasha Parliament for November 24th and 25th, and I've been talking these days about how much the traitorous bastard Pupovac and that Stanimirović, nothing better than him, tried... (I'm sorry I timed out, but let me have another minute, so I don't report after the next amendment. )......................................................................................................... So, as they worked hard through NGOs to convince as many Serbs as possible, they even offered money to the municipality's employees, who work as refugees, to provide as many Serbs as possible to go there to vote, to give Pupovac and Stanimirovic legitimacy. Thank God, these people are aware and safe, and they know what they represent and who Pupovac and Stanimirovic represent, and of all the refugees, how many have been reported by Republika Srpska, who live in Serbia, no percentage has reported going there. I am convinced that not everyone will vote, a large number won't vote, and it will go the same way as those who called on Serbs to vote in Kosovo's so-called. elections. Among others, the Pod called them to the election. Here is one reason why I am convinced that Serbs will not go out to vote, and many, at least I know about the municipality of Zemun that they came and asked – where is the vote, when they heard that the polling place of the Croats Zemuna, Ilija Okrugic, said – I will not, there I went or went from Croatia, from Ustasha Croatia, can't there be any other place to vote? Where else do you vote? For example, at the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia, Consular Department of the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia, the Community of Croatia Zemuna, the National Employment Service of Pančevo, the library of Gligorija Bogarević, the parish office of Janjevo in Kosovo and Metohija, the JP plumbing and sewerage, MZ Žitni trg, Petrovaradin, General Consulate of Croatia in Subotica, the Croatian Cultural Centre – Bunjevačko kolo, Croatian KUD "Vladimir Nazor". So these are polling stations that are open to Serbs and make Serbs have to go, if they want to vote, to these national associations. Of course, not to be misread, Serbia is a democratic state, the SRS admits and will always advocate recognition of the rights of all national minorities by the highest European standards, but do not force Serbs, who have literally escaped from knives, to come to these institutions because it creates very difficult and ugly associations. I am convinced that not even these slightly less than 1% who have applied will vote and I publicly invite them – do not invite Serbs to go to these places or to Croatia, you have no one to vote for, or Pupovac, or Stanimirović to fight for you, they are self-informed representatives of the Croatian Ustasha Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11381	I would like to thank the People's Parliament to the Faith of Rade. Do any of the MPs report for this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Zdravko Topalovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. The Government, the Defence and Security Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has a National MP, Zdravko Topalovic. Here you go, Mr. Topalovic. It's the last amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11382	Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the asylum law proposal, Article 67(1), (3) and (4). In Article 67-1, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will provide regulations on the content and appearance of asylum applications; 3) the Minister responsible for Social Policy will provide social assistance regulations for persons seeking asylum, or asylum; 4) the Minister responsible for Health will issue a regulation on health checks referred to in Article 39(2) of this Act. The SRS believes the regulations must bring the ministry, not the minister. The minister cannot be equated or even placed above the ministry's institutions. The SRS in principle advocates that the regulations of a particular ministry, in this case of the Ministry, are adopted by the ministry rather than by the minister as an individual. There are many practical reasons for this. I'll give you one of them. Mr. Minister, you had some urgent business yesterday and the day before yesterday, you were prevented from being in parliament, so you could happen to have obligations that you have, for example, by a member of this law that one of the individuals related to this law cannot resolve his own life issue. If this amendment is accepted, such cases will not occur. Not only in your ministry, it now appears to be a trend in the government of Serbia, in the current government, that you have made a feud from the ministry and that you act like feudals. It's all about the minister, not the ministry. It can also happen with some other laws or regulations, where the minister is solely in charge of you. You might think, for example, Velju Ilic, who is currently in a locomotive, Gucci or some manager, in some paved road, and it is necessary for his presence at the ministry to sign some act and pass some regulation. The same applies to Mladjan Dinkic, who must be a spice and peacemaker in every chorba regarding this thieving privatisation or any other problem, except he has all the powers to sign, and I think the culmination is the case of Minister Cvetkovic, who gave himself the right to determine the amount of commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11383	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister. You have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11384	Very short. I would like to thank the MPs for their exhaustive debate, for their efforts. We've adopted as many amendments as we thought would not destroy the concept of the law. However, time will be a judge whether this law is good or not. In any case, we can conclude one thing, that our legal system through this law, if adopted, is in line with the Constitution and international acts, and that we have actually filled out a legal framework for solving these problems that have not been adequately regulated so far. Once again, I also thank the MPs of the opposition and MPs of the ruling coalition for the talks, and I hope you will adopt this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11385	The minister was very brief. I thank the minister. Peter, don't. The minister gave the final word. I would like to thank the minister and his associates for their participation in the session, of course, and the MPs at exhaustive discussions. I hereby conclude the review of the asylum law proposal in particular. Please, MPs, I just thought it was a nice session. Mr. Minister and associates have obligations, they have to go, and you want to speak to them. Here you go. I thought we'd finish. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11386	No matter what it is about the police minister, we here need to talk on an equal footing. The minister came to pay bills in relation to the proposed law before the MPs, which he did regularly, only with the exception when he was potentially prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, as representative of the SRS, I would ultimately like to draw attention to the provisions of Article 20, which were not spoken of in relation to the number of members of the commission. You have the situation next, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, according to the bill, numbers 15 members. We have evidence that about a thousand cases remain unsolved in the work. After the election of the new judges, there are thousands and thousands of complaints and cases to be held before this Constitutional Court. However, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are too many members of the commission. If it is to believe the report you provided in the explanation, according to UNHCR, that it is found annually in front of the UNHCR from 50 to 100 resolution requests, where, in the reasons on page 3, you explain and the costs related to the commission's work. I add, eight members and plus the chairman of the commission, and the administrative tasks of this commission are also provided by the MUP. So it's a supplement of operatives or administrative workers who will work for that commission. That's why it's too big. Here's what the proposal explains on page 7: ''These costs depend on an uncertain number of persons to address with an asylum request, which is why it is not possible to predict them in advance. If UNHCR statistics are observed that receive asylum requests under its international mandate, the number of asylum seekers in the last two years is moving between 50-100 people, but in this area more accurate predictions are unreliable, as changes in that number can be radical and unexpected, depending on the different factors in the closer and wider environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand what this is all about. I suppose this is about the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, at least according to what I could interpret. In Kosovo and Metohija, as this is a very current topic here, in Serbia, due to the long-standing uninterrupted separatist action of one part of the Albanian national minority political representatives, a political crisis has been artificially caused with the aim of internationalising the problem of obtaining international support to achieve their basic political goal, secessions of Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia, as they now intend to achieve with some international factors. To remind ourselves, the historical fact is that Kosovo and Metohija since the 6th century, already in 1300, is a cradle of Serbian statehood and culture, which is witnessed by the fact that there is the largest density of Serbian medieval monasteries and other cultural monuments. Until the arrival of Turks to the Balkans and the occupation of this part of Serbia at the end of the XIV century in Kosovo and Metohija was the Serbian capital Prizren and the seat of the Serbian Patriarchy. Already there was, and today it is, that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, even the 1912 London Agreement confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why I just wanted to remind ourselves that it won't be easy for anyone who comes across this Serbia and who tries to break off territory, about 15% of Serbian territory and the Serbian country. Mr. Secretary, I was just planning on reminding you, and I've turned my attention, I could read between the lines what you're predicting, I'm not disabling anything. In no case would I agree with this, nor would the SRS agree, no matter how much America wants to and try to do it. Serbia will certainly defend its Kosovo, keep it, and live Putin, a great friend of Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11387	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Peter Jojic. I thank Minister Dragan Jocic and his associates. Don't break the Rules of Procedure, I gave Mr. Jojic my word out of special respect for him. The minister has concluded the session, don't be angry, I have some rights here, too. You want to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, in the same function as the esteemed counterpart Jojic, just a few sentences, Colloquisically put, in the final word. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a quality law ahead of us. He was corrected by amendments accepted by the government and accepted by the minister. In our legal system, we have an empty space without this law. It is our duty, as states, to arrange this matter with one legal document. This law also relies on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, generated by several provisions of the constitution, and more importantly, is generated by a series of these international conventions that we, as a member of the UN, have accepted and signed and taken over these international commitments. In the end, I mean, there could have been some confusion based on the presentation of some fellow MPs, that this law refers to refugees, our fellow Serbian nationalities from the former Yugoslav republics. There is a standard in this law that this law does not apply to refugees whose position is regulated by a special law. I would like to emphasise this because of the public, especially because of our fellow Serbian nationalities from the former Yugoslav republics. Their position, their status was regulated by the Law on Refugees from 92 and 2002, and their position was particularly regulated by one of the exceptional laws, whose amendments we recently adopted, as the Minister said, and that is the Law on Citizenship. The debate on this law lasted relatively long, a large number of amendments were submitted. Basically, in practice this law will not apply so often because the frequency of this person category is not so high. According to UNHCR data, it's between 50 and 100 people a year. But the planet we live on is not a perfect and ideal place and it is possible that Serbia will be a potential place for refuge for individual categories of persons who, because of their political beliefs, can be persecuted from individual regimes that are not democratic or dictatorial. That is why I call on all MPs in the National Assembly to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11389	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Todorovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11390	It could have been a replica, but according to the Rules of Procedure. I don't want our efforts to be misunderstood in any way and to try to make remarks when it comes to the asylum law, precisely because some things are mixed. Our main objections were that some things were not meant to be in this law, but in the refugee law. You had a chance yesterday, in a debate that we've led around some amendments, you clearly see that when it comes to the SRS, which we've advocated. If that were true, you have the right to refugees in your accommodation, Article 44. Then you have a travel document for refugees. Why is this not settled in the Refugees Act, why is it being solved in the asylum law? Those were SRS objections. We were trying to convince the minister that some of the solutions were meant to be solved by that law. Since you've already taken them to settle with this law, then we've tried to make these things better and come to a law that will make life so difficult for all refugees, who are forced to live outside their homes. Unfortunately, you had this opportunity to hear earlier in the presentation of Mr. Petar Jojic, to in some way conclude that the possibility of a refugee wave is predicting Serbia again. It's normal, you don't need to hide from facts. It is clear what is happening about Kosovo and Metohija. Already, this number of commission members suggests that the commission will have many cases, which will have to solve in case of an unfavourable solution when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Even if there was no solution, you had the opportunity to listen for days, to look at images in the media where this terrorist group ANA appears again and threatens violence against Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. This was the reason why the SRS MPs tried to define it precisely in the past three days under this law, everything that was related to asylum and refugees.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11391	The replica of Mr. Secretary's presentation has Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11392	The replica does not refer to the minister's presentation, but to a colleague from the DS, who placed refugees here as a national. You're a lawyer and you have to deal well with legal terms relating to nationality. Refugees have the property of the Serb people. They had it until 1990 in the Croatian Parliament, because we were even with the Croatian people. We had the property of a state-of-the-art and constitutive people. The moment we were expelled from the constitution and then physically expelled from the Republic of Croatia, we lost the property of a constituent and state-owned people, based on the genocide policy of the Croatian state. Today we are in Serbia, we are Serbs and we have the property of the people in Serbia. And as refugees, we're Serbs, so don't put us into nationality, because it doesn't belong to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11393	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the search of the asylum law proposal, in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm closing this agenda item. I'm taking a break until 3:00. I schedule the session at 15.00 hours, when the sixth item of the agenda is on the agenda - Parliament issues. [[After break – 15/05]] Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving the beginning of the session. Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic scheduled consultations with the presidents of the parliamentary groups at 3:30 in the first floor hall. After that, the session will continue. The government of the Republic of Serbia is still going on, so let's calm down a little bit, please be prepared. So, once again, the President of the Assembly, Mr Oliver Dulic, returns from the road only because of this and schedules consultations with the presidents of the parliamentary groups at 15:30. I expect a session to continue at 4:00 p.m. Thank you very much, colleagues and friends.
ParlaMint-RS_2007-11-22-0.u11395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it was not possible to organise the agenda item - MPial issues, in the way it should be, we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, with one composition of the government to which you will be able to ask parliamentary questions. Bon appétit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 183 national MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please ask MPs to insert their identification cards from the parliamentary unit of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vesna Pesic, Zarko Obradovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Riza Halimi. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the way MPs are asked: "The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual minister or government, from their jurisdiction," as defined in Article 198(1). Rules of Procedure. "The Salad Question must be clearly formulated," as defined by Article 198(2). Rules of Procedure. "The Parliament's question is asked in writing or verbally, with the presentation of the MP who asks questions cannot last longer than three minutes," as defined by Article 198(4). Rules of Procedure. "The President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority," as defined in Article 198(6). Rules of Procedure. Also, according to Article 201. The Rules of Procedure, ''after having answered the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. After receiving an answer to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes.' We're moving on to asking MPs questions. In line with the agreement of the heads of parliament's groups, the order for asking parliamentary questions will be the same as the order in the discussion in principle. We're going from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. That's why I'm asking an MP who doesn't belong to any MP groups if he wants to ask a parliamentary question. I'm sorry, Mr. Shane. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic.
